ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e72	The representative of Sverre Myrli shall apply for parental leave from 7 November to 23 December. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates from Akershu County are proposed to meet: Anita Orlund from 9 November to 20 December Siri Hov Eggen 9-11. November. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e88	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e91	On behalf of the representative Anders B. Werp and the undersigned, I am delighted to propose a better evaluation of exceptional incidents in the police as a basis for the development of new knowledge and enhanced preparedness for terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e96	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that there will be voting in case No. 1 immediately after treatment, so I'll ask people to sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e112	No one has asked for the floor. In view of the fact that the delegation to the Nordic Council is to hold a constituent meeting this morning, the President proposes to vote on case No. 1 immediately. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e287	Norwegian democracy is based on a number of fundamental principles, such as the rule of the people, openness, the freedom of the individual, the power of the individual to influence and the power to control. When those values were threatened, our Prime Minister replied with “more openness” and “more democracy”. That's wise words. There were words that gathered a nation, there were words that were important to hear for a nation. But those words must also be contained. And it has to be admitted that most of us who made choices in the autumn's elections did not expect the turnout to increase no more than it did. A democracy is always in development, a democracy is never finished, a democracy is always on its way. The very heart of democracy is the debate. The very process of thinking about democracy from its beginnings is to bring disunity from the swords of the square, from the battlefield and into the debates – where disunity is not to be eliminated, but where individuality, where man's diversity, man's different opinions and different approaches meet in debate. That is why freedom of expression is the very foundation of democracy. It must never be limited and the debates must be taken seriously. It was also one of the things we felt threatened when we were met by the terror. But in the debate on social change as the driving force for what is driving society forward, knowledge is also part of what is involved in bringing society forward. That's why some of us have considered how important it is to have a history subject, where we actually understand the origins of the common values, the history of the common values, and where the various historical distortions – based on totalitarian and extreme thinking – can also be revealed by historical knowledge. It is important to curb extremism, but it must be done with knowledge and debate, and it must also be researched against the background of the origin of extremism. Nor have we been good enough for that in Norway. If we are to have a public debate, it is very important to have free media – media that opens up and facilitates the edited debate, but also for journalists' free opportunities to work and free opportunities to present society around us in the way of journalists. It is therefore important for us, as politicians, to facilitate the development of new media. I have to say that the vacuum in which one experiences that the media in Norway is now in, for example. In the case of unexplained attitudes to VAT, we see that the Norwegian media world is hampered in development. It is important for Norwegian freedom of expression that we have a media policy that actively facilitates this development. Another important cornerstone is the right to organize. The strength of Norwegian democracy is based on volunteering – volunteering that starts from below and builds people. Therefore, it is important not to govern volunteering, not to do as one does from this pulpit: to talk about service providers with a certain competitive advantage, but to understand the self-esteem of volunteering, and to understand what we do not have a very good Norwegian word for, namely ‘empowerment’ – that people are given power over their own everyday lives through the training they receive in voluntary organisations. Some say that non-governmental organisations and political parties, for that matter, organize the elite. They have never been to a local annual meeting. A local annual meeting shows that there is an average of all people, where all people have the opportunity to participate and influence and be given the power to have the opportunity to influence democracy as well. But more democracy also means renewing our democracy. Therefore, the Left considers it important to extend voting rights to 16-year-olds. That's what we've been trying to do, which has given us a lot of good arguments to push on. The Borghild Tende comes back to this in his post. We also think it is important to open the nominations, make the batches more open and make the batches stronger. Increasing their membership should be a far greater goal for the political parties than increasing the turnout. It is also important that voters gain far more power through elections than they now have: the ability to cancel, the ability to cumulate and also the ability to influence which representatives come into the process of decision-making. Our local democracy is under great pressure. We see that it's drained of power, and that you cut in the number of local people elected every year. It is possible that the argument is more effective, but democracy is not effective. Democracy is perhaps the most inefficient way of taking a stand than any other way. It's just that all of the other ways of taking a stand are so much worse. We have a local democracy built on such small units that they are constantly being tapped for power in relation to the power that lies in this room. We see that because of their small size, local democracy is increasingly being organised in ASs and closed rapporteur's clubs in between organising services for the people. We also see that we have an emergence of an ombudsman structure that means that more and more power and responsibility are being moved out of this room and over to agents who are to take care of the role that the elected representatives should really have. I could talk about having a majority government in getting democratic debates into the Storting. That's what we usually get when the majority government doesn't agree with the sea, like that. in the case of predators, which was perhaps the most exciting process we had here in the Storting. Openness is also one of the cornerstones of democracy. I want to say that on behalf of the Left, I am pleased that the government has put down its feet to the Commission in terms of giving them a blank mandate to make everything a secret. I think that was a good grip. But there's a lot of things we could do here in the Storting also for increased transparency. There is no reason for the Storting Committee meetings to be closed. There is no reason why it should not be open who is doing lobbying to the Norwegian Parliament. We also see that there are good reasons to take action in terms of openness in our local democracies. The diversity is an important part of the Norwegian society in which we live. The fight against racism and discrimination and the open debates that bring about knowledge in this area are important for greater transparency and more democracy. It's positive when the percentage of people who look at the 3 pst. Muslims we have in Norway as a threat to Norwegian culture, slowly but surely going down, but that has to be discussed. We should not get away from these debates. We're going to talk about what we're really afraid of, get it into the light and not make this a debate between elite and ordinary people. More openness and more democracy were the right answer. But there is also an answer that obliges to be a driving force to bring society to the goal of more democracy and more transparency. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister willing to contribute not only to saying right but also to do right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e313	It's almost 100 days since 77 people were killed and injured in the government quarter and on Utøya. In addition to killing and mutilating people, the bomb and shooting on 22 July was also an attack on the very core of the regime: the understanding that free people's opinions are formed in open conversations, the acceptance of different opinions and the fundamental respect for the individual's rights and the community's framework in a democracy. The perpetrator raised himself above all this and gave himself the right to kill to achieve his political goals. I am infinitely happy that the Norwegian people without hesitate to gather that our answer to violence is not to repeat violence. Our answer is to put the burden of democracy even deeper. Our answer is to question the idea that openness is the foundation wall of the People's Government. Our answer is also that we should never be naive. Since 22 July, the debate on the concept of ‘more democracy and more transparency’ has been going on more or less coherent. What does that mean? What are we going to add to it? Today, the representative Trine Skei Grande asks what I put in the words. I love the question, but it's about far more than I mean. No politicians have the fasit. On the other hand, it is an unconditional advantage for many to take part in the debate. The more democracy is debated, the stronger democracy is. The more transparency is involved, the stronger transparency is. That is why there is an important debate that Trine Skei Grande is inviting. A premise for the debate is security. We need to protect society from new terror with credible security measures. It's about preventing fear from snapping. A people in fear is developing neither democracy nor openness. A people in fear is an unfree people. Our common job is to create understanding that these are two sides of the same thing. We're going to have transparency, and we're going to have a society that feels safe. Since 22 July, the Government has launched several measures to increase security, including: We've strengthened the Oslo Police and helicopter preparedness. In the 2012 state budget, we are increasing the appropriations for police emergency services, and we are strengthening the police security service. In the throne debate, I announced that we would return to Stortinget with further action. This will take place, among other things, in the comprehensive communication on social security and in the long-term plan of defence presented by the government in spring 2012. Defence assistance to civil society in acute crisis situations will be an important theme of these plans. Such measures are important for people to feel safe walking in the streets of Norway. This security is also the foundation for everyone to think freely, speak freely and act like a free people. Security is the foundation for more democracy and transparency. It is important not to limit the debate on democracy and openness to the Stortinget and other political bodies. Of course, it is essential which laws are passed and which appropriations are granted. But the most important thing is that the formation of opinion outside of the Storting is free. Unsatisfying opinion in public space is the expression of a real democracy. Fortunately, after 22 July, there is no sign that the debate has slowed down, on the contrary. The impression is that the public conversation has expanded after the terrorist attack. Let me give you three examples. The first is that online communities with extreme opinions are open and their opinions exposed. Extremists' hatred is met with arguments. It has obviously created confusion. I quote VG's commentator Anders Giäver, who has been following the external web forum for many years: ‘Agreement has been largely replaced by self-inflicted suture. Any criticism, comment or insofar as any kind of attention that is not commended is seen as an attempt to crush them and take away their freedom of expression.’ Secondly, one study shows that confidence in society has increased after 22 July. Trust strengthens the opportunities for democratic participation and political action. After the terrorist attacks, many feared that the high trust in the open Norwegian society would be challenged. The results are, as far as we can see, the opposite. People have increased confidence in government and big business, and we trust each other more. A third example is that many have joined political parties and political youth organisations since 22 July. The interest in voluntary work has also increased. Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, Amnesty, the Rescue Company and the Air ambulance are examples of organisations that have received more members after the terror. These are encouraging examples of the fact that the will to participate in our open democracy has increased in the wake of the violence that struck us. But who should feel responsible for guarding openness and strengthening good development? The grossly masked answer is everyone. Democracy is a responsibility for the individual, volunteering, the media, the churches, the universities – everyone. The majority and the government have a special responsibility. We have come out of the people's will to interpret the people's will. In this case, the message from the people is liberatingly unambiguous and in keeping with our finest traditions. We're going to fight extremism with openness. In this room there will always be different perceptions of which decisions best lead to more democracy and more transparency. For some, the voting rights of 16-year-olds are a step towards more democracy. Others think 16-year-olds are too inexperienced. Some believe that transparency is strengthened if the Storting allows for political advertising. Others fear the political conversation. I respect that there are different views, and I accept that there are different ways of expanding democracy. It is essential that opinions are openly broken in advance and that decisions are fully respected in retrospect. For me, an overall goal is to include as much as possible in the decisions. Real participation is democracy building. Lack of inclusion easily leads to fear of the unknown, fear of ‘the others’. In worst cases, it can lead to extremism and extreme actions. The goal of more transparency and democracy is therefore closely linked to our ability to create inclusive communities across religious, ethnic and other dividing lines. The fight for more equality is also a struggle for more participation and more democracy. After July 22nd, we saw pictures of an imam and a bishop hugging each other in a mosque. Let it inspire us to create communities that are safe enough to respect the inequalities and strong enough to withstand the unpleasant debates. Let's have that picture with us when we discuss the policy's contribution to a living government. In keeping with our best traditions, I am sure that the Stortinget takes responsibility for developing more participation and more democracy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e348	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. There was a lot I very much agreed with. When it comes to the view of the debate, I also have a feeling that it still has to be as open as it should be. In fact, some of those who feel awkward have been pressured in both the Evening Post, the VG and a number of other places where parliamentary leaders can struggle to get pressurized. I must also say that I had an experience after I sailed wrote an article in the evening post with the theme multicultural. Most of the time, it has led to so many unpleasant debates both online and in the mailbox that I had steeled myself a little and waited until noon. 12–13 on the day to go in to answer. To my great joy I discovered that the job had taken many others. It was something that happened in Norwegian debate culture, where you had to protest, and that was very positive. I have three challenges for the Prime Minister. I believe that our democracy must be strengthened, it must always be changed, it must always be expanded. We can certainly discuss the voting rights of 16-year-olds, but in many other areas, I believe it is important to extend and develop our democracy. In what areas does the Prime Minister feel it is important to have such a development? I also agree that the primary task of the State is to provide security to its citizens. On July 22nd, we failed as a nation in that area. But total security can only be achieved by giving away all its freedom. Overall safety is usually only ensured by totalitarianism. There is always a point of balance between security and freedom. Does the Prime Minister also see the importance of fighting for our freedoms when we are going to fight for our security? The third challenge was that we experienced the threat of our democracy on July 22. We thought the vote was going to increase, it really didn't. What are we political parties doing wrong when we can't mobilize more people into elections, don't sail after the nation has been as threatened as we experienced this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e363	Let me elaborate on some of what I think about more security and more democracy, and therefore also try to respond more fully to what the interpellant brought up. I mean, for example. all we do with integration and equality is work for more democracy, more transparency. It is about including people with low turnouts, it is about including people who have little political influence in many areas of Norway and succeeding in integration policy. By securing many jobs, by expanding Norwegian education, through free core time in kindergartens, we are also able to create a society of more democracy, more participation. Gender equality is also a contribution to more democracy. Secondly, I am absolutely sure that what we are doing with the Cultural Promise – where the appropriations have increased by 3.6 billion. kr, where we have set a concrete numerical objective – and the increase in the appropriations for volunteering is a two-fold boost for participation and democracy. For all that is happening in organisational and cultural life, it is precisely to create participation, diversity, opinions, opinion formation – The cultural promise and the promise of volunteering are also a boost to democracy and participation. The third example is media policy. It's called freedom of expression infrastructure, and it's about the community, society, having a responsibility through our media policy, by securing the public broadcaster, through extensive press support – 2 billion. kr only in the VAT exemption provides substantial support for a media diversity, many newspapers. A free and democratic press is a prerequisite for transparency and democracy, and the community facilitates it. We invite you to more debate and have also had samples and investigations on how we can secure the free and independent press in a new digital time. This government has increased the press support and also continued the majority of the press support, namely the VAT exemption of around 2 billion. kr. Fourth, electoral law — which introduced this government's right to vote for 16-year-olds. I haven't decided whether I'm in favour or against it, but I've said that well, it's one try, let's reap experiences and see if we want to go on with it or not. We have made it easier for the municipalities and adopted two days' choice, i.e. two days' choice, and also longer opening time in the polls. We need to discuss other measures, because we need to do more to increase the turnout. Fifthly, we have introduced electronic postal records, which make the public, transparency, even more real. These are small and large measures that are all about participation and democracy. It shows how diverse that work is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e380	I would like to begin by saying that in the historical perspective, the Left and the Labour Party have a very clear common understanding of the importance of democracy for the development of both a democracy, a community and an open society. It is important to be aware, as I think the interpellant was very clear in his post, that this must also apply to the other way. Strong democracy requires that society be organised in such a way that transparency is prominent and that it is real to the individual citizen of society. So what's the assumption for that? It's in that way a very interesting question. Of course, it's about equality organisation, it's about equality in economic development, but it's more about the cultural understanding of society and cultural and social equality and freedom. An anecdote: When our former Prime Minister Einar Gerhardsen was 75 years old, it coincided with the Norwegian Labour Party national meeting at that time. He was welcomed. Then he went up to the pulpit to thank him, and then he said, "There are a lot of people who have asked me, what's the most important thing you've achieved?" I've been thinking about that a lot, he said, but I've come to the conclusion that the most important thing I've achieved in all of this is that now the people don't have to stand with their hats in their hands. What's this about? Well, it's about the very basic understanding of democracy and the prerequisite for transparency. It's that you have a fair culturally organized society. The question that was very commendable today is, do we have that openness today? What is the prerequisite for us in the future society of Norway to have a culturally equal society, so that we have a real openness and a real involvement for the citizens/citizens of society? What do I think is the answer to that? I believe that it is important to raise the big perspective in this discussion, too, in addition to all the more concrete things that are addressed here by the interpellant, and that the Prime Minister has rightly been involved in. It is that it is absolutely central that we manage to maintain the great political consensus that characterises this hall and the Norwegian political environment, namely the need for a strong community, where there should still be small differences, that we have a comprehensive welfare state, and that we have good social arrangements and a strong public sector, which is the very basic plan of the whole society. It is the security that such a society creates, which is the prerequisite for the great transparency. Without that security, the transparency discussion will not be real. We can just imagine what that's like. for what we can call ‘usual employees’ in the future society, what openness and opportunities they have to stand up to and talk about their rights, stand open and speak against their employer, against society, against the authority, if they do not have security in their backs — from professional movement, but also from collective society. Here I believe that the core of this discussion lies, in a sense, alongside – and I stress it – all the concrete things that are also addressed in a commendable way by the representative, Skei Grande, who the Prime Minister replied to on behalf of the government. Because without this collective idea, much of this will not really be for large sections of the population, and that is what characterises large parts of many other societies in Europe. It's just a small class that really has the real ability to use the openness of society. This is the big challenge, as I think it is important to get involved in the discussion, and as I think Skei Grande, who represents a party with strong tradition of democracy building, is important. That's what we should gather about in this discussion too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e393	Let me first thank the interpellant for an important debate. Let me also start by saying that I share the general considerations given by the Prime Minister on many different aspects of these issues. I shall nevertheless allow myself to bring some reflections. It is true that we are all very much for democracy, but democracy is also linked to commitment and the right to have that commitment without fear, the right to say what you actually mean, and to participate in an important social debate. But it also has to do with a feeling that one's commitment means something, hence the debate on electoral participation. It's the way that, despite all of us thinking July 22nd would increase turnout, it didn't. We've had long discussions about how to get more people to go and vote in elections rather than not. It's this growing form of abstinence that very many people have, which can also have something to do with the way politics is conducted, which is hard to find any obvious answers to. Then, of course, there is also the fact that many have views on the electoral system – not only when voting rights are to take place, but also how real it is, given whether a vote is a vote regardless of where it is actually given in the country. There is also an important part of the debate on electoral participation. I will not go into this interpellation debate to address the issue of security and preparedness, we have enough opportunities to come back to that. But freedom of expression is, of course, a crucial concept in such a debate and is, in our opinion, absolutely absolute and totally. Then it is also about the opinions of others. I have noticed that a lot of the discussion about the debate recently has been about taking a lot of objection to things you don't like. I agree with that, but we must be careful to develop an even more elitist debate culture. Because that's the danger of creating the impression that there are only some views and attitudes that are kind of bearer in a society, and that those who have a dissenting view of it do not have a natural place in that debate. It doesn't really matter where on the scale they are. At the moment they feel excluded from those debate venues, they will find another way to exercise their right to participate in society. That's why I think we should reflect a lot more on it than just creating the impression that now we've got a much better culture of debate, because I'm not sure if that's the case. Transparency in administration is another very important issue in these matters. You can ask a lot of questions about that. There have been enough examples over several years of limited access to information, both for the media and for the populace, which has a control function over a majority government. I am very pleased that the government signed out the attempt from the July 22 Commission to get its own special law, which would lead to less transparency. I'm very glad the government did. Then I could say a lot about the role of local democracy. There we see a development that goes in the negative direction. More and more local elected representatives believe that they have been run over by state bureaucrats, state institutions, state agencies, which also help to kill some of the joys of exercising democracy in the municipalities. It's a problem we have to look at a lot. A majority government also has a great responsibility to feel a real responsibility for the governance system we have. I have also seen many approaches and tendencies to ignore important functions and power allocation principles. Voluntary organisations could also use a five-minute post to say something about them. I will refrain from it, except to say that it is a question of how free and voluntary they will gradually become, as more and more people become addicted to getting into the state budget – instead of having the opportunity to cultivate the business that they originally owned. Finally, I would like to say: equality is good, but there is one more side to it, which is called equivalency. The two concepts don't always have the same meaning, because having equivalency is also about getting respect for making other value choices than those that carry big business and government. We also have to be concerned about that and focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e419	After July 22nd, it was said very much correctly. The Prime Minister deserves commendation. He got praise at the time – and we should repeat it today – for the great way the country's leadership appeared, precisely personalised by our prime minister. I also think the time afterwards manifested what we're together about in society. Here in Oslo, in front of the Stortinget, we had a common election opening across all parties. It was a great pleasure for me personally to work with Raymond Johansen to get to the big and great event. Then you get to ask, when you get these terrible events more at a distance, whether it can also be that it derails aspects of the social debate that do not promote transparency, whether we impose a self-esteem, whether we start to put freedom of expression into competition with other interests, and in that way relativises something that is the most important thing in democracy, namely that people can boldly express their views and opinions – false, outrageous – so that they can be met by others with better insight, openly. There have been some tendencies that parties that normally stay in good shape when we discuss sensitive questions have almost been required to distance themselves from previous statements, which at that time people did not find particularly perceptive. So we have to be careful that we don't act with a pressure of conformity and produce a psychological climate around the political change in Norway that makes unpopular opinions not come to light and possibly be addressed, so that we all increase our common understanding. The popular opinions will always be taken care of. Then I would also like to mention the debate, especially as it gradually entered a trail using the representative Kolberg, who tended to say that everything that was fine with society, supported openness. It was a tribute to the trade movement, for which Kolberg is an apologist on most occasions. It is very good to say about the trade union movement, but from a governance point of view, it is also possible to question whether all organised group interests contribute to open societies. We have also seen, if we are to be self-critical, that the Supreme Court has put the Storting in place in some cases where laws that the Supreme Court has found have been problematic in relation to the Constitution. We have another pillar on which the Basic Law rests, the principle of popular sovereignty, while the final part of the Power Investigation points out that we are practicing a good deal of power circulation. That is, central power positions circulate between a very small number of people like others would be so bold as to call the power elite, which does not absorb new currents in the population well enough. We've just been through a local election game where people have been deprived of the opportunity to cancel candidates, which was also an example of the interpellant. Then I'll warn you and come back to what the Prime Minister says that open and free societies depend on appropriations for the cultural sector, which is good, on appropriations for volunteering and core time in kindergartens. Then I have to say that then one starts to get far from what is the subject of the interpellant, and that is whether, after the violent impressions of July 22, we are still on the watch for the basic principles, which just make it possible to have a democratic debate in full boldness. That's a very interesting question. Then the answers are not given through declarations. We know from the politics that there is a great distance between great political declarations and the concrete everyday life afterwards. There we shall help each other not to relativise freedom of expression, to build the democratic institutions and to ensure the freedom of choice for ordinary people. Those who are outside the system need to get a better understanding of political life. We might also have to think about how the exclusive rights of the parties to nominate can limit fresh forces from the outside, etc. There are many points of improvement that we can have together in society – without having to confess to the social-democratic party programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e436	Many of our heavy institutions have physical monuments to show how important they are. It has democracy, but also the defence, the judiciary and others. But I have often thought that the most important monuments of democracy are events – often perhaps just moments – the French revolution or the fall of the Wall. When Rosa Parks sat on his seat on the bus in Montgomery in Alabama in 1955, a white man came – it was full in the white part, she sat in the black part – and said she had to move, because he has the right to sit there if it's full in the white part. She refused. Or I'm thinking about the Tahir Square in Egypt, which I visited during the Winter Revolution. There we met a 17-year-old girl who was part of the Muslim brotherhood and who told us how Christians and Muslims work together. It was a Muslim who woke up one morning and was to pray, but his prayer carpet was gone. Then the Christian girl took his shawl and borrowed it as a prayer carpet. That is why, in a recent debate, I also said that perhaps the most important single political housing I can remember, and as I have experienced myself in Norway over the last few years, the Prime Minister's words are that we are going to face up to the terror with more openness and more democracy. It was an important political moment. And I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking up one, in my view, rarely important debate here in the main hall. I want to use the rest of my post to challenge ourselves on three questions that go on: Where does democracy go? I don't believe the road, even though we are a few things about, will only be more democracy – without fights and discussions about the road. The first is that we have traditionally expanded our democracy to a great extent by introducing justice – political justice, economic justice, and cultural and religious justice. They've been very important. But is democracy in a country that Norway is now best expanded with ever new dishes in the decades to come? The distribution of powers may have had as its main brevity to address what they call justice, that it is more and more the courts that handle justice more than we political bodies — and thus the population — that adopt new developments in important areas. Since that, we've continued in the same direction as before. I ask myself that question. I think we have to take that debate seriously in a completely different way. Secondly, there is the relationship between security and openness. Sometimes there are two sides to the same thing. But -- honestly -- let's be honest: sometimes it's not. Security is necessary, but it will also limit openness – sometimes. A trip around airports gives a very physical example of that. If we block buildings, give less access to people, it becomes less openness. But that may be necessary. If we check and register more, it becomes less open. But that may be necessary. Security is necessary, but there is no risk-free society either. I think we also have to call it detours, what we sometimes have to do. We also see that in many societies openness is being challenged. I also think we'll be able to experience that for decades to come. It brings me to the last, simply freedoms, because the struggle for democracy and openness in much of the world is still a struggle for more freedoms for man. We live in a country where we have unusually many freedoms in relation to what most people internationally have. Nevertheless, I ask myself, where is that discussion going? My main theory – or what I assume – is that while we've been challenged in the past by our freedom to do things, say what we mean, be places, participate in the organization we want, we have most of the freedoms today. But what can challenge our freedom in the future is that all we're doing now is being registered, sometimes it's being controlled, and it's going to be out in public, whether it's online or elsewhere, as evidence of what we meant and did ten or 20 years ago. I think we've only seen it all, the very first phase of how it could be in 5–10–20 years. Think for yourself, go back ten years and see how huge the change has been in the little decade. The freedom both to act and to mean without it being used in other ways, and the knowledge that what we do, is being registered or monitored, gives us limitations that are not lucky – there are important debates we have to go into. The American philosopher and scientist Benjamin Franklin once said: «Whoever is willing to sacrifice his freedom for a time in security deserves neither freedom nor security.» I think it's a useful quote in the session with further debates on democracy and openness – which we're going to have to take and be challenged for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e458	July 22nd was an attack on all of us. The one lonely who attacked the government quarter and the Utøya, hit everyone in all parts of our country, the community our country is. What was Norway needing? What did we need then the grief hit? Well, the opposite of solitude - community. Community becomes through the history of which we are a part, from the mariners to today, through various events and symbols, but not least through words. Sometimes the words themselves are the action. The words ‘more democracy, more openness’ were laying the foundation for a huge mobilization of people around the whole of Norway, a mobilization we have never seen before, where both young and old gathered in a common mark. The words themselves were powerful. The actions of the Prime Minister, the Royal House and the Church built a national community. It led us into a national sorrow that bound us together, and that binds us together. Community and equivalence are the main premise of our people's rule, of living democracy, of feeling a community and of participating in the same arena – it is not an action plan that premises democracy – that is what is important in today's debate as well. I even belong in this debate that community mergers are being raised as a topic. I am constantly amazed that any problem is some of the answers to community mergers, VAT on newspapers, committee hearings or some other communication or action plan from the government. But I have no faith that everything about democracy will come from above. Democracy – and the tradition of both the Central Party and the Left – must come from below. It's everyone's responsibility to turn the words of the Prime Minister into action, that in the parties and the people most of us contribute to just the living conversation, the living debate. Therefore, I believe that regardless of what action plans are coming, the action was just that a social leader showed leadership and pointed to more openness and more democracy when everyone felt uncertain and the people went out. The Prime Minister made clear and made visible the values on which we want to build our society, and the people took it in. It's everyone's responsibility, not just the Prime Minister's and the Grandfather's representatives, to make the words real, with the different opinions we have, over the years that are coming, in the debates we have here in the Chamber. We must not make those words so small that we end up discussing an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e471	The words "more openness, more democracy" have become standing as some very important words after July 22. I'm glad, and I think we might need that. I want to give praise to the interpellant to highlight a very important theme. The Left Party is also good at just lifting words like 'democracy and openness' into the social debate, an important debate. I want to use my post to talk about the challenges of monitoring, freedom of expression and media and volunteering. In 1949 George Orwell wrote the novel "1984", describing the totalitarian regime of Oceania, a society in which citizens are monitored continuously to ensure loyalty and subjection to the party. George Orwell's gloomy vision of the future has so far our fiction here in Norway, but the United States is approaching a Big Brother system under McCarthy's witch hunt for so-called left-wing liberals in the 1950s and had tendencies towards the same in the enforcement of the Patriot Act, which was annexed after 11 September 2001. In Norway we have so far avoided going into that ditch, but I think it would be naive not to see that these kinds of discussions and challenges will come. That is why I am so pleased with the words'more openness, more democracy'. I think it is very important that every proposal that comes after 22 July is just tried out and tested against the words'more openness, more democracy'. But as important as the debate on monitoring is openness to different views in the social debate. Freedom of expression is still subject to discussion, both in Norway and in other countries, but convergence may be quite different. I hardly think anyone would claim that freedom of expression is threatened in Norway, at least not freedom of expression as an idea or as one of the statements of our legal system. According to the big message that came before the amendment to the new section 100 of the Constitution, the public space is to promote the three social-constitutional processes of truth-seeking, democracy and the individual's free formation of meaning. So the state has a superlative responsibility for building public space so that everyone can get out of it. The Freedom of Speech Commission, in its time, provided a wide range of public actions ranging from school, education, art, culture and public support to organisations, through press support for financial support to the media for minority groups. Of course, it could be more than that. The availability of active and informed participation in the societal debate is free access to a lack of information and views. Media is thus a very important part. I only want to mention two parts just connected to the media. The only thing is that we now see that we get a media spectrum on new platforms. We also need a media support that hits the different platforms, so that we do not just favour the older type of platforms. We're content to have a conversion in line with the change we see in society. The second thing I want to say is that it's important that we look at this whole-heartedly. As former environmental protection minister, there could be a bit of a mixed experience a read newspapers nations in the morning, but if it hadn't been for just newspaper nations, I believe a lot of debates that are very important, actually had not reached public Norway and got such a wide debate that characterizes, for example. the environment and local administration, where I see the newspaper Nations playing an important role. I look forward to this debate, it is important that we go beyond July 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e495	I would first like to thank the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, for this important interplay. After the tragic event of July 22, many, including the Prime Minister, spoke about the importance of participation, and it was troubling the importance of youth engagement and the importance of caring. It is therefore close to focusing on youth in this debate today. The left has always been in this room the party that has been in favour of the extension of the voting rights – a party that is a member of an international liberal movement, where we are now fighting for the voting rights of 16-year-olds across Europe, where we have won both in Germany and Switzerland, and where we now also had it at the top of the election campaign in the United Kingdom, where Lib Dem went for the voting rights of 16-year-olds and got 23 pst. of the population at the time of the elections. In Norway, we are struggling with a 1968 image that young people in the 68th generation care about, while today young people don't care – a picture that I think is completely wrong. If you take the little elite that went to university in 1968, and compare it with the elite that is most active among today's students, you will discover that today's youth is considerably more politically active, considerably more politically awakened and has an incredibly much more knowledge of society around it than what youth in the 68th generation had. I know a little bit about this, because I was actually almost there. But more importantly, we also have a scientific background for this. Young people in Norway, a NOVA report that came in 2002, show that we have a growing political commitment among young people, and that youth today is much more politically active than adults are. Youth cares a lot more about its political everyday life than others. They are also the large consumer of municipal services. Throughout our welfare system, it's those who really notice it when our welfare system doesn't work. When the swimming pool is closed, when the leisure club is closed, when the bicycle paths are not working, when the public transport is not working, and when the buses to the school are packed and run by, it is exactly the age group we are talking about – 16–18 years. Instead of influencing them in the municipalities in which they actually grow up, we choose to give them the right to vote as they move. Today, there are very few young people who see reason to engage politically in their own municipalities, because they get the right to vote when they move. I think that the Norwegian district policy had benefited from having many young people who had cared more about their municipalities before they were forced to move to the major study places. When the great liberal movement, which was about getting to a constitution in the United States, started, the slogan was ‘no taxation without representation’. It should be a slogan that could strike in many other parties as well. It shouldn't just be the Left standing here on the pulpit and saying that this is actually a good principle. At the age I'm talking about here today, you have to make many important choices that affect your whole life, but you don't have the opportunity to influence society around you. You have to pay taxes, you can sit on public councils and boards. The government may appoint persons to create a NOW on important political issues, but they do not have the right to vote against the government requesting advice. You can be put in prison, you can have children, and you can follow the laws that this congregation makes. Nevertheless, you do not have the opportunity to influence. In addition, today we see a major demographic change in Europe. This change is about getting more and more older. If you look at Europe today from the ten- and fifteen-year perspective, for example. the share over 80 years is increased by 172 pst. in 10 years. The proportion over 70 years will also increase dramatically, while the proportion between 15 and 25 years will decrease by 25 pst. When we see that voting rights are reserved for an increasingly ageing population, it is a challenge for us politicians to open at the other end so that more young people can obtain voting rights, so that we get a balance in the voting population. Finally, we need to stimulate young people to participate. It did many of the great young people who had to pay for their lives and who were badly injured on the Utøla. In the opinion of the Left, we do this by giving young people responsibility by giving them the right to vote. It will be one contribution to more democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e514	The promise of more openness and democracy was not a general political outpouring. It was not to notify a coming announcement of openness that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg lifted these words this summer. It was to give the Norwegian people a concrete weapon to fight with in the fight for our future and against the terrorist attack on the Labour Party and the AUF. It was our common protection against violence. Young people also had an answer. Selected participation. All over the political axis, young people report to fight actively for their values. Democracy lives by participation, and we, as politicians, have the task of making that participation as important and as accessible to each individual as possible. We have to look up the political doors for anyone who has an engagement. It is democratic openness. Norway was before July 22 an open and democratic society. It was these values that war was triggered against that day. It's because the AUF, the Norwegian people and the politicians turned back that we can today say that we won that war. Norway is still an open and democratic society on which we are to build, but it was not given. We're back to normal. In this room and in newspapers, communities are discussed, how we can include more in our democracy, feminism and the distribution of opportunities – all that the attacker hated. We have a prime minister who bikes to work, but everything is not the same. We had to create a whole new society on July 22nd, and we have taken an active choice to be an open and democratic society. It was not given. There should be openness about what happened on the day someone held you for his mouth, dragged you into the darkness and stole from you the future had so hurt – they we had so much love. The Commission, which has been set down, shall turn on each single stone and map all the actions to find out who did what and at what time. Here everything on the table, even if it can never be undone what happened that night. The outcome of the Commission's work, the outcome of the openness and the measures that follow, must have an overarching goal: we should do everything in our power to be the guarantor that this will never, ever happen again. We owe it to those who are left. But there's a group that couldn't have done anything different, a group that we can't do right now, and it's the young people who were on the island. That is, they did not act, they did not choose from different options. They reacted to instinct, because everyone who was there was at risk of life. In a way, they experienced something that no cork in peace or wartime has experienced in this kingdom. Everyone tried to save themselves and the ones they saw around them that lived. On the island that day they were exactly what they were, they were AUFs who were shot at, and they did exactly what they were supposed to do, acting out of it, not as a health worker or as a police force, but as young people fighting for life. We chose a strengthened freedom of choice and openness after July 22. We have to manage this openness wisely. It shall allow all types of reasoning to emerge in the light, but shall also be used to counter those who use the freedom of expression to defend the attacker's intellect. We are responsible for that, and the press is responsible for travelling and giving room for those debates. In this light, as politicians, we must fight back against those who are prejudiced that young people could have done something different. Let it be clear: All the young people who were on that island were acting just as they were supposed to. We can't make a mistake, we can't erase it less, and we can't remove it quietly, but when we have our own politics, and the pressure, we're given an opportunity to remove something that's more specific than what plagues the worst, we have an obligation to do it. We have a chance to work together to get rid of this unreasonably bad conscience. So maybe we can contribute to some of them getting their night sleep back. The struggle for a free and democratic society stands every day. We had an open and democratic society. We have to fight to preserve and develop, and then we have to fight those who don't want it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e540	There is reason to thank the interpellant for addressing this question in that form and as a separate theme in Stortinget. That was a wise initiative. There is also reason to thank the Prime Minister for very important and correct words in a very difficult situation on 22 July. The quality of our society and of our leaders is first and foremost expressed in as special and demanding situations as one was then. I think the words are particularly strong considering that they were pronounced at a time when one did not know who or what attacked our country. After July 22, there is a relationship in our society between openness and democracy that gives hope, not least the commitment that one has seen from the youth to join the political youth parties, where one has seen that all parties have increased their membership among adult members. It gives hope of increased participation, increased political commitment, which is a prerequisite for our democracy. But there are also signs that don't give much hope. Personally, I was convinced that we might have turned the polling record on this local election. You didn't. There was an election attendance at the level of what you could have expected before July 22. It will be very interesting to get the analyses of local elections this very year, with the assumption that one on the one hand got a violent influx into the parties, got a strong political commitment, but at the same time failed to increase the overall turnout. It is also interesting to see that some of the initiatives taken specifically to increase democracy, pilot schemes in several municipalities relating to both Internet votes and 16-year-old voting have not had any effect. With regard to the discussion and the climate for debate, which has also been a review theme in this debate, there is a demanding debate. I think most people have as their starting point that more transparency leads to the different points of view, that the visions are being tested, that the arguments are being tried out: nevertheless, we know from experience now that the argument that when the troll meets the light, it cracks, it doesn't necessarily happen. Never before has it been easier to express views in public space through the Internet and social media, but nevertheless we see that it also leads to a faster dissemination of views, that views and opinions that are not factual, which are myth-based, tend to be perceived as truths because opinions do not go through a filter either. It challenges us in relation to the discussion of media policy, because if everything becomes equally important, if all views become equally correct, and if everything fails, how is it possible for us as users of that information to know what is right, and what is wrong? Where a former media director of the political debate had control mechanisms, one today has a completely different openness – a transparency that is positive, but which nevertheless challenges us in terms of how to bring forward the fact-based discussion, the qualitative debate, because in a society not everything is equally important, everything is not right. Something's wrong, and something's wrong. The discussion also challenges us in relation to religion in society. I think it was spreading a sense in Norway that religion had lost its meaning. That's wrong. The discussion that goes shows that religion may have greater and greater significance in our society. But how do we meet it in a climate of debate where sometimes the impression that being non-religious is what's right? What is important is to have a debate in which religious views are also allowed to be expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e557	Thank you to the interpellant for asking a simple and good question – and thank you to the Prime Minister who gave us these words that are the starting point for the debate today. He gave us them when we needed them the most. I am also very pleased that the Prime Minister has such a broad approach to the concept of democracy. Democracy is much more than what happens in this room, which happens in county councils and local government. From that I would also warn against using electoral participation as the only goal of what is the state of our democracy. The center part shares a lot of thought goods with the left part of this field. That is why I very much agree with much of what Mr. Skei Grande has to say. When the Prime Minister spoke about security measures, he said that it was important that there were credible measures. I also believe that when we talk about the development of democracy, the measures must be credible. From such an approach, I disagree with the interpellant in some areas that I shall quickly enter. She promises the right to strike. I think it's based on a little theoretical approach to the problem. We first have to look at whether the nomination process is real – this is related to the parties' ability to use pre-cumulation. In sum, it will give more or less democracy to a reintroduced right to strike – or the right to strike ladies, as it was practiced in parts of the country. The representative of the Skei Grande shall also be responsible for open committee meetings. Will it give more transparency, or will it move the debate and discussions into the corridors, into the offices? I think there's a reason to ask the question. The representative, Skei Grande, also mentions proposals for a lobby register. The first year I was at Stortinget, I kept my own private lobby register of all the meetings I had. When that year was over, I carried out a good ministry-style evaluation of the measure and concluded that it gave a wrong impression of the overall lobbying effect that I had been exposed to in the year that had passed. I believe that it was not a credible measure. In one area I would like to commend the interpellant, and it was that she raised the responsibility of the parties. There we have a great job to do both in developing the political workshops in the parties, and in having political parties that are open and inclusive, and perhaps the potential for improvement is particularly great in terms of the nomination processes and recruitment of people who make choices. Openness may be the most difficult side of democratic development. The Prime Minister has said that security measures should be credible. In that I understand that they must be effective and they must be necessary. When we're at the airports, when we're at the quays and when we're looking at warheads, when we get the registration and control that happens in society, there's a reason to ask the question: have we forgotten to check whether all the measures are credible, whether they're effective, whether they're necessary? In the spring we had a debate on the Data Storage Directive in Stortinget. That was a good debate. I disagreed with the conclusion, but one element from that debate must be taken with us, and it was that action itself can be good, but that the sum of them is going to be wrong. The sum of them becomes less transparent. This applies either to combating social security abuse or to having a more effective toll collection, or to other measures that a person wants to implement – we each have to take responsibility for the sum of what we do. So I think concepts like more freedom and more democracy are not just about laws, about decisions, about appropriations. It's also about attitudes, and I was therefore very pleased that the representative Tenden took up the relationship around the so-called 1968 generation. I've talked to many of the people who made up the majority of the 1968 generation -- those who had the wrong opinions, and who experienced the opinion censorship that some people in that generation had. There's every reason to shoot down the myth of the excellence of the 1968 generation. Our generation's responsibility is to take responsibility for the opinions that we either like or dislike. They are the ones we need to defend, and they are the ones we need to argue against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e580	At the memorial in Oslo Spectrum, the names of the 77 killers were read. It was overwhelming. So many, so young, so meaningless. The world will never be the same – not for those who are directly affected, not for the rest of us. July 22 was an attack on innocent people, on democracy, on the Labour Party and the values we stand for: an inclusive society, diversity and equality, respect for one another. The bomb in Oslo was supposed to hit the government. On Utja Island, the killer attacked the girlfriend we have, our kids and our kids, in a cynical attempt to hit as hard as possible. In the so-called manifesto of the mass killer, it becomes clear. The Prime Minister showed his power of action and care from the very first moment when everything was chaos. He said early that the answer to terror is more openness and more democracy. It is ideal for Norway to end up around. We did not overwhelm anger and powerlessness, but showed coherence. Hundreds of thousands of Northmen participated in rose trains, in quiet, dignified protests. We reacted differently from other countries that have been affected by terrorism. Norway is a country with small differences between people, short distance from those who govern and free exchange. In addition, the Nordics have great personal freedom. Community solutions such as the Loan Fund and parental leave make the freedom of education and freedom to work more than empty words. In sum, this gives the experience of community, it builds trust between people and gives freedom. There are prerequisites for democracy and equal participation in society, and that is an explanation of why the reaction turned out the way it did. The challenge — more transparency, more democracy — is addressed to all the Nordics, to all parts of society. In practice, we'll put different things in words. The interpellant took up the matter in her intervention she believes is important. Many of the points we agree on, others we disagree on. No one has a monopoly on transparency and democracy. Where we disagree, it's not about unwillingness to do right, as the interpellant suggests, but about disagreement about what best promotes the ideals. I am pleased that the Prime Minister addressed this in his reply. Among other things, he pointed. in political advertising. Does it lessen, or does it give more transparency and democracy? I would like to mention another example: electronic voting. Does it give more democracy because it becomes easier to cast votes, or less because it challenges the principle of secret elections? Neither in other cases is the answer given. The claim that we in Norway do not have an open immigration debate is incorrect and needs to be refuted. We had that before July 22nd, we now have that. One of the sources of inspiration from the mass killer, the Islam-critical blogger Fjordman, got a whole page in the evening post to complain about opinion control a few days ago. Today he has an article in the newspaper where he accuses a mass press of having important debates. Freedom of speech is a part of freedom of expression, but the claim of mind control goes into a pattern. Extremists have pulpits, but they don't like open debate. Let's point that out. At the same time, we should address the unpleasant debates. In the last few days, we have been told that several of the people who were on Utøya are now being anonymous on the Internet or receiving a hate letter. Now an accusing index finger is pointed at them. Per Anders Torvik Langerød, 26 years old, experienced the terror on Ut Island. Now he is branded a national traitor by anonymous consignors. He's not alone. The police are familiar with several examples. Extreme remarks have their place in the debate, in the open debate under full name. We need a discussion about the room for anonymous statements. The fight against an intolerant society, against extremism, must be fought every day and won every day. In this room we have a special responsibility: responsibility for our debates based on facts, responsibility for taking people seriously and responsibility for responding to extreme opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e601	Thanks to Trine Skei Grande for putting an important theme on the agenda. Thanks also to our Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who, after the terrorist attack on 22 July, led the nation further. I've also reflected a lot around: what did we really mean? What do we mean by the big words? What mandate did we get from people after the terrorist attack, and what are we going to do now to follow up and fill the big words with concrete content? As we went out into the streets, we did it in sorrow. Maybe we felt remorse, maybe we also felt that it was good to stand together, meet people we had never met before, and that it was as natural to talk to them as those we had known for many years. One had in common a terrible event that made it easy to be human together, but not alone. We have a responsibility to fill the big words with content, both as political parties and as individuals. We're in the time of self-search. But I want to say that the starting point for democracy and openness is good in Norway. The terrorist attack on July 22 was an attack on the Workers' Party. That is why it was also an attack on all political Norway and on the Norwegian people. It was an attack on democracy itself because it was an attack on a political party. The word 'democracy' means rule of the people. For us who are members of this Chamber, and who are engaged in a political party, it is obvious that we should go and vote. But as political parties, we have a responsibility to be able to mobilize, engage and involve people in such a way that they feel that it is important, that it means something to participate in democracy, that it means something to each of us. To take advantage of the opportunity to do some advertising: I have even promoted an interpellation on that topic on 17 November, in which I hope many people can get involved. I think it's very important that we look at what people who don't go and vote for two consecutive choices do. Selection studies show that approximately 60 pst. voted now, so four out of ten were at home, but it's just twelve pst. that makes it two choices in a row. It's a slightly different angle of incidence than what we've had up to now for vote. I think it's a connection between electoral participation, the experience of marginalisation, and how we're able, of course through political mobilization, to make people understand that it's important. Some of the things that have made me happy after July 22 are the broad opening up of the principles of the rule of law. It is one of the mandates I feel that politicians have been given to care for and manage. It is the courts that are to be judged in Norway. We're going to have a humanistic approach to punishment. I also feel that we should never give up. Nor has it been a debate since July 22 that we should not believe in rehabilitation. The rehabilitating idea permeates Norwegian justice policy. I feel that there is a popular uprising around it. There are several people who have been involved here today that we are going to balance when it comes to individual matters. Then I think we should take the openness test, the democracy test. There will be balances between privacy and control. There will be balances between free statements and shikana. I must say that I fully agree with the representative of Håkon Haugli that no one has the right to expel others in the sphere of anonymity. There I think the media have a very important role to play. I would like to say from this pulpit that VG has been exemplary and has gone ahead in cleaning up in an innocuous, anonymous online debate. Exploitation and tolerance come through knowledge. The values we have built in Norway, we have to choose every day, and democracy is the basis of our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e622	The President makes it clear to those who have signed up now that the time for the interpellation is actually over. The President now gives the floor to Trine Skei Grande, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e625	First, I would like to thank so many of you. I would also like to thank those who were not allowed to join. When I went into this debate, it was not to say that something – at all points – was right or wrong. But I think this is an important debate. I see Martin Kolberg lifting some exciting perspectives, and I want to give two pictures, to complement. A good friend of mine was an election observer in an African country that had choices for the first time. There would have been a big debate about the introduction of general voting rights, in a country where 80 pst. could not read. He described the picture of an old lady, over 80, without teeth, who could not read, walking out of the poll, looking at her index finger--and tears rant while she was smiling. It was because she felt, for the first time in her life, that she had a freedom she never had before – the freedom that is called the right to vote. Why can't we pass it on to our voters when we can communicate it elsewhere? It is clear that equality is an important step towards increasing electoral participation. But why is it that in Oslo there are more immigrant women than immigrants who vote? There is much greater electoral participation among immigrant women than among immigrants. So let's think about that a little bit. Otherwise, I am pleased with the perspective that Bård Vegar Solhjell went up about the rule of rights we're moving into, and that so many have raised privacy as an important part of this debate. But I'm also a little surprised that you can't see that, for example. The cultural debate is an important debate on democracy, given how we convey the support we have, that we in Norway today have a very united stance in terms of who, the few, is in power within the culturally promised government, or what Knut Arild Hareide mentioned, about a media policy in which we are unable to renew ourselves with instruments for a new media everyday. I want to fight for the right to make anonymous statements. Anonymity is an important part of the public debate. It's an important part of actually being able to get there, even with alerts, and being able to give tips to the media. In sum, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think there are a lot of issues that now lie here, which we should work on further. I will conclude with a call to Martin Kolberg: Yes, the Left and the Labour Party have been very close together in very many important democratic enlargements and reinforcements in this Chamber. I also hope that this will soon apply to the issue of voting rights for 16-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e640	Let me also start by thanking you for a good debate. I would like to thank the Stortinget for having been so united as a nation in our response to the terror, and thank you for all of us being able to gather on the message of more transparency and more democracy. So I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. I want to join in what she says about the Left and the Workers' Party having long traditions for historically fighting for more democracy, more transparency, more general voting rights and more participation. I'm going to look at the issue of voting rights for 16-year-olds even more thoroughly – after I heard that it's the test – what should I say – if we get an even better relationship with the Left. At least we've started trials and we're going to evaluate it. So two-three brief reflections in a debate that has been about a lot of things and that illustrates that democracy and transparency are about a lot of different things – media policy, cultural policy, volunteering, integration, equality and many other issues. One is the relationship between security and freedom. Sometimes it is obvious that choosing security or freedom — and a dilemma — is a choice. It's e.g. so that we have to limit monitoring/police methods. I am absolutely sure that we can find examples that we have set limits that, in isolation, weaken the police's ability to maintain security, but we all agree that the kind of limit we must have. Then we choose freedom and privacy over it – what to say – the simple definition of security. Similarly, I think we all understand that even if we're going to go through what we're doing in terms of physical security around public buildings, or for that matter, measures to secure summer camps, I don't think either of us will live in a country where we can say that we've implemented security measures like 100 pst. secures us against attacks around public buildings or, for that matter, around political youth camps. So yes, sometimes it's a contradiction. But at the same time, it's quite obvious that very often it's also that security gives freedom. An unsafe people is not a free people. There are only safe people who dare say what they mean, even when there is criticism by authorities. Controversial and controversial positions are presented if you are safe. That is why we need security to ensure freedom. It is similar, of course, in terms of economic and social protection – crucial to freedom. Therefore, the discussion about kindergartens, Norwegian training and free core time is basically about freedom, although the context may be somewhat more indirect, but not less important for that reason. The last thing I want to say is that democracy and people's will are a powerful force. We're discussing how to make it even better in Norway. It's great to see that democracy is also winning around the world. Latin America and Africa – continents that have been marked by dictatorship not many years ago – are now marked by democracy, and democracy has also prevailed on our own continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e653	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e667	The attacks against Utøya and Oslo on 22 July this summer have many facets, both a long-term race, which Stortinget has started discussing here just now, and also some very acute, short-term facets – a short perspective – and that is what we are about to do. There's a lot that can be said, a lot that should be said, and that at some point should be said, including in this room, about the attacks and about the time after. But it allows the committee to come back to, because what we're inviting the Storting to decide today is to support the government's proposition on the more acute things that have to be covered by expenses beyond the attacks of July 22. In retrospect, a number of measures have been implemented under several of the departments’ responsibilities. It is about the necessary and urgent security work in affected buildings, the establishment of temporary offices for employees in the departments concerned, the coverage of additional expenditure in the police and criminal services, the means of crisis support for those who have been most closely involved, the recovery of costs incurred by the work of the Church after the crisis, exceptional expenditure on psychosocial follow-up in the municipalities, etc., etc. There are a number of things that clearly govern the budget after this year, that is for 2011, were not dimensioned when we had such a serious attack. The present proposal proposes additional appropriations for the year 2011 amounting to a total of 1,029.3 million. kr. An overall committee is behind the vote - of course it does. It is important to stress that the acute and exceptional costs are now covered. They're understandable enough of such an extent that it's completely impossible to imagine that they could be covered in another way. So it's right to treat it this way. In conclusion, this is not the last time we have touched on the impact on the budget – state budget, national budget – but also how it is managed, after 22 July. The size will come back and discuss a number of things, but we don't think the time is right now. Now it's time to settle the bill for the most acute, and there's an overall committee that's behind it, and that's what it's doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e678	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 291]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e696	Let me start with perhaps the most important thing about the defence and the role of the defence, namely to give credit to everyone who contributes daily in a job to take care of national interests, be at home or out. I think that we might strictly never be able to praise them enough, because they do it unnoticed, but they do it nevertheless out of pure and cut necessity. My aim to travel this interpellation is precisely the fact that I have tried to point out initially, namely that the defence is facing large, large investments. I also perceive that they are of course clearly necessary – if not we would not have done them. But they will have consequences for defence, for operation, and not least for the total investment pot that the government intends to use. Then I think that the most important thing to do is to be conscious of its own role and to have a close and close dialogue and understanding with the government and the Ministry of Defence. It's like the back porch for everything. The process of hunting fly acquisition so far has not been quite simple. Today, the evening post office has a look-up that shows that you may have a communication problem. It may not be as serious as the Evening Post describes it, but nevertheless it is claimed. Then I think it's important to clarify these things and focus on what's important, that we have new fighter planes, and that they cost us relatively expensive in a 30-year perspective. In addition, initially – as the President read out – I have also pointed out the challenge of rescue helicopters. I'm going to take it right away, because I don't want it to be the topic: I'm aware, of course, that they're going to be financed by the Ministry of Justice, but the defense has no doubt a role whatsoever through the operator's responsibility. Now there is a proposition that has a relatively large investment framework, including there. So everything that kind of has to do with defense equipment and the things to do costs a lot. The back of the needs that we are discussing are several things. One is the national needs; the other is international cooperation. We have commitments through cooperation – through our relationship with the UN, through our relationship with NATO and through our relationship with the EU. That means we're dealing with them. This also means that when we make equipment investments – planned and completely acute because there is a need for them – we do so with certainty that it is the best equipment, and that we can use it for cooperation with other partners that we have. Buying things that don't fit in with the others is basically stupid. Those of us who remember when the Swedes went to Libya, will remember that they had a "fuel" problem at first on their planes, because it didn't fit what the others had. I hope we won't end up in such a situation, because I think it won't be useful. The point is to have a clear political framework for what to do – contractual work in relation to who, what, where and how. In addition, the United States has a big role to play. When the United States says they're going to change their focus, it's going to put on bigger challenges for us. Do we initially have to do more on our own in the future? How do we do that? We're a small nation, no matter how we turn around, but we have a location that's interesting, and we have a resource access that makes us attractive to more than one party. Then it is tempting to point out the fact that the EU has its own security policy, and yet we see that two of the major EU nations, France and England – or the UK – have made an internal agreement between themselves. They're big EU countries, they're big NATO countries, and yet they do. Then, of course, is one of the major issues: Will the future also become more bi- and multilateral in defence and security policy? In these days, work has begun on the defence budget for next year, and some are likely to say that we have a balanced budget – the world looks bright. Nevertheless, at the open hearing that was, the BFO pointed out that there are some cuttings in the sea. We have some personnel challenges, we have them on the investment side – not financially, but because deliveries do not always come as ordered, and it does something to us. I realized that for the Army we are struggling on the crew side, we are also struggling on the material side there, and we have challenges with our participation in Afghanistan. I have seen that the lifetime of material in Afghanistan is significantly lower than it is here at home. That means that the rate of conversion needs to be increased, and that is a cost factor in itself. I have also realized that the Army wants 350 new armoured vehicles – two sets, one for training at home and one outside, and this is certainly not going to be reasonable. The Committee visited – I think it was in May – the Inspector General of the Marine Defense in Bergen. Above the table, he pointed out an investment need at a point between 25 and 30 billion. kr – large numbers. I am absolutely sure that the Storting will handle it when that time comes, but overall, the Defense is a rather expensive institution to operate, because it is specialized equipment that is necessary to have. We have our frigates -- five pieces -- we have a limited number of crews, but it's determined that we should have a greater focus on the north, and here it's hard to get a match at my discretion. The NH90 helicopters should have been delivered in 2005, hopefully we might get one this year and the rest later. But it does something about our totality, which is important. Then I'm going to approach the nucleus of this. We're about to go to the acquisition of a large fleet of new fighter planes. The majority has agreed to the government's proposal to buy four, which is primarily to be used for training in the United States by our pilots. There is no doubt that the need is present. The challenge will nevertheless be: such a large investment, how will it turn out collectively? Can we assume, and can the defense assume, that everything comes as supplementary appropriations through treatment in this room, or to what extent do you have to make one, we'll call it, self-payment within the Defence as an institution? In any case, my opinion is that there is a concern in all arms, including in the Air Force, for the large investment in fighter aircraft, how will it hit us? Then I think that one of the most important things we can do in our approach is to be clear: what do we expect, what is the goal of the fighter planes? Of course, having an operational capacity, it's for the sake of our sovereignty, but it's also part of NATO's flanking mission with QRT. I think when government and greatness decide that we should actually go to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, we should also be equally vulnerable to the financing of this. If we decide here that you should have it, at least I believe that then big and government should act so neatly that they say, "We also have to take the bill." We do not have to take responsibility for this on other weapons. I think that would be totally unreasonable. So that's why I think that one of the most important things we do is to have a good and open and tidy process between government and big business, where you're clear on the orders. The funding must be equally clear, clear objectives must be set for the purchase of defence-related, security-related, but also in relation to what the Norwegian industry wants to do in such a large investment. It must also be that overall, overall, this must enable us to meet all our national safety needs in a good and sound manner. Then I think I'm just going to sum up what has been my approach to the Council of States, by asking her three specific questions. The first will be whether there is an upper limit from the Minister of Defense for how much we can actually afford to use when we're going to go to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. Is there a roof on this, or is it that we have to buy it, cost what it will cost? The second thing, of course, is about funding, whether the Council of State can say something about how much she expects is naturally coming through through through direct appropriations, and how much of the investment she thinks the Defense must take on its own. Last, but not least, Norwegian industry is very concerned about what is happening around the hunting aircraft purchase, and then my question to the Council of State is the following: What will the Council of State be satisfied with as regards the achievement of the Norwegian industry, looking up to the high investment needs underlying the purchase of new fighter aircraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e733	Let me first stress that this government, like the representative Ellingen, is committed to developing a long-term and sustainable defence structure. That's what the government takes very seriously. The government has delivered on targets and has fulfilled the current long-term economy. As you know, the government is now working on a new long-term plan for the defence sector. The government plans to promote the plan for the Storting in the spring of next year. It is proposed that the acquisition and phase-in of the new fighter aircraft will be a central theme of the new long-term plan. In 2008, the Stortinget joined the government’s choice of fighter candidate and asked the government to continue working on the acquisition and stated level of ambition. In our interview, Stortinget concluded about the government's recommendation on the purchase of four F-35 fighter aircraft for training purposes. The new long-term plan aims to make a comprehensive recommendation on the fighter aircraft case, including the number of aeroplanes, operational ambition level and locating solution. The need for temporary or permanent increases in the defence framework will also be discussed. The government’s work has been based on the current main lines of defence policy. These have been defined in the current long-term plan. There is broad cross-political agreement on these. It is therefore considered that: The fundamental role of defence is conflict prevention. The defence shall constitute a dissuasive threshold which, together with NATO membership, contributes to the prevention of conflicts in our neighbourhoods. A flexible and ally-fitted response defence will continue to be developed to deal with a wide range of tasks. The general duty of protection shall be continued. Defence shall contribute to ensuring social security and other key societal tasks. There is a broad political consensus that Norway should develop a modern and allied response defence. Norway must have at all times the relevant means of power if Norway is subjected to pressure, aggression or estimation. With modern capabilities and high response capabilities, the Defence shall constitute a war-preventing threshold which clearly demonstrates that it will be at both risk and cost to address estimates of Norwegian security and independence. So our country needs a defence with the ability to assert national sovereignty while at the same time preventing conflict. This contributes to stability in our own neighbourhood. At the same time, Norway is part of a broad security policy community in NATO. Our national defence is therefore a first step at a larger conflict prevention threshold that is crucial for regional and global security, namely the NATO Alliance and its collective defence. NATO remains a cornerstone of Norwegian security and defence policy. A defense that fulfills this ambition over time places great demands on the structure's composition and on our ability to long-term manage and develop it. It requires a balanced defence structure that can operate throughout the conflict spectrum. It requires reaction ability, so that we can act quickly – alone or together with allies – and, if necessary, also with complementary capacities, which have trained and practiced together. We need modernisation and forward-looking capabilities that can solve tasks far into an unknown future. A defense cannot be improvised. Material and technology have long lead times. Competence must be built nationally and over time. Today's decisions will create the defense tomorrow. Failures today can create future gaps. We choose capacities for the growing generation. Therefore, Norway acquires new fighter aircraft – the most modern and advanced available. Kampfly is a basic capacity in our defence structure. Even a technologically advanced opponent must be difficult to plan away from or circumvent. Fighting lights are essential for our maritime and rural forces to be able to solve their missions. With new fighter aircraft, we secure the most important cornerstone of the future in our defence structure. That is why we are addressing the new threats within computer and information systems – cyber. We cannot allow ourselves to hang or create a gap that our heirs in the future must strive to fill. That is why we are already working on long-term solutions for submarine capacity, even though today's submarines will sail until after 2020. Norway needs a top-notch modern defense that is at the forefront. Developing and managing a defence with such ambition is demanding – also financially. The next generation of military systems provide significantly more, and they cost more. Fulfilling such a defence ambition therefore requires extraordinary lifting from time to time. Such a promise is necessary if we are still to have a credible defense. In 1977, the country's then political leadership decided to make just such a promise. Norway decided to make a defence acquisition that exploded all used frames at the time, namely 72 fighter aircraft of type F-16. One was predictable. A small country, with a formidable sea area and airspace, has provided itself with a tool that has been in use so to speak every day since 1980. Today, F-16 is approaching its end of life. Now we are going to make decisions with consequences for future generations. That the acquisition of new fighter aircraft would be economically demanding, has been known for a long time. That knowledge was there in 2008 when F-35 was elected and Stortinget asked the government to continue working on the matter in line with the level of ambition of the fighter aircraft. So let me sum up: the representative Ellingsen and I are both concerned that Norway should have a sustainable and modern defence structure. We're also both aware that it's going to be expensive. In return, some such capacities could be active for many decades. That was the case with the frigate investment, and that would be the case with the future fighter investment. In the long-term plan, which is set up to promote the Storting in the spring session next year, we will present comprehensive recommendations. These recommendations will address fighter aircraft, their location and the base structure of the Air Force. They will also be integrated with other parts of the defence structure and include the issue of economic containment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e785	With all possible respect for the Council of State's response, it was well expected – without being either rude or improper here. I might have wanted the Council of State to take more into account the issues that I raised at the end of my introduction. I fully agree with the need for defence, I fully agree that we should have sustainable development, and I fully understand that all this comes into the long-term plan, but the main concern I addressed was: what are the overall consequences of the defence as an institution? Is it now that those who belong to the Navy or the Army can relax completely and think that ok, today Minister of Defence Faremo has confirmed that this is to be fixed and financed without going beyond anyone else? That answer, at least, has not been heard so far by the undersigned. It is possible that the Minister of Defense has intended to say something about it since today, but until that happens, I reserve the right to be a little daring when it comes to feeling such security. Thus, for the investment needs, which the Minister of Defence was quite right in relation to the long-term plan, the purchase of the fighter aircraft does not just apply. The army has a lot of wear because they contribute to Afghanistan. We've dealt with issues here about acute investment, such as Dingo 2, when it came up, because you saw a need, and you wanted to give a quick response to it and solve problems in Afghanistan. But it wasn't fair either. The Committee was back some time ago and visited the FLO and was briefed on the cost of operating the new frigates. It was then pointed out by one of the Committee's members that this is really very costly. The answer from the management of the FLO was that if one compares the previous frigate class with the new one, they are in a way not comparable. The capacities are completely different. So there's undoubtedly a connection between investment in expensive defence equipment and operating costs. No one denies it. However, the challenge is to find the point of balance between investments and the operational challenges that occur from year to year. My intention to raise this issue is simply to find out to what extent the defence as an institution can expect these large investments to take place through additional appropriations, and how much of – let me use the term ‘property’ the defence itself must come up with. That's what I asked the Council of State about. I realized that for some reason the Council of State was allowed to answer that, but now, of course, she gives it several occasions during the day, so I still trust the Council of State to say something about it. At least I hope that the Council of State does not hide behind further consideration of the long-term plan. It is important enough when it comes, but it would have been okay – for the sake of respect for the debate now – if the Council of State could have said something about this today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e794	The President has some doubts as to whether the term ‘sabla precious’ is parliamentary. But considering that it's in a defence debate, we're happy to let it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e797	We can at least agree that there are large numbers we're talking about, and that's important questions. That is why we have thorough planning processes in the Defence. We set long-term plans, and as the representative Ellingen wants to know, we don't only have a new long-term plan going on, but we've also agreed to do it a little bit differently, with continuous long-term planning. When we also get a new plan on the table next year, it starts from the current main lines of the current plan. There are therefore also clear premises about a balanced structure on which we naturally build and which is the basis of the mandate given to the head of defence for his military professional advice. When I choose to stick to the processes we have agreed to apply to this sector, it is not least that we owe all parts of the Defense to do this thoroughly. Kampfly is an important part of Norwegian defence, and it also confronts economic challenges that we want to see in context, so that other parts of the defence structure also feel secure that the solutions chosen are chosen after careful consideration. I still have the pleasure of meeting a department where there can be no different aspirations in different parts of this, and where it is obvious that everyone has a desire to deliver the best possible in their dough. I think the alternative is much worse, so I would like to welcome such views. But then it has to be up to management to make the necessary balances, summaries and priorities. Then we'll have ample opportunity to discuss this in this room as well in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e802	This government is historic. During this planning period, 2009–2012, the follow-up rate is over 100 pst. This is therefore due to additional appropriations linked to foreign operations. For the first time in our history, with this government, a long-term defence plan has been followed up. We in the Labour Party are proud of that. It's about time. In addition, there has been a huge shift, from a comprehensive mobilization defence with much out-of-date material to a modern and smaller effort defense with modern high-technology and more time-consuming material. I noticed that the Elling in the interpellation said it has not been impressive, so far. He also allowed himself to say in his post that it has not been a tidy process in relation to the Storting. That's something I very strongly want to distance myself from. It has been a very tidy process, and I have to say to Ellingen, who is also active in NATO cooperation in various political selections: when we compare ourselves to other NATO countries, which have to go to drastic cuts on their defence budgets, it is impressive what Norway is doing. Let me just show you a few examples of investment – something Ellingen mentions in his interpellation: we have had the rapid acquisition of new transport aircraft. We have cooperated on strategic transport capacities, so-called C-17 in Hungary. We have a big, new – the most modern – frigate fleet in the world. We have new MTBs. We have a armoured personnel vehicle. We have a new artillery system. We have the creation of a satellite capacity. We have also renewed the uniforms of Norwegian soldiers and carried out the modernisation of material – to mention something. In my opinion, it is impressive what Norway has had to do, and it has been necessary. We've been following the long-term plan at all of these points. It also shows that we take responsibility. We are renewing in a balanced defence structure within the different branches, to which I also referred. This year's budget, which Ellingen has probably also read in depth, shows exactly this; we are going through the long-term planning period and are renewing. But I agree that, in the future, we must also have greater material investments that require appropriations outside the ordinary budgets, as the Minister of Defence has also stated in an excellent way. We have the fighter aircraft project, to mention something, but we also have to see if it might be necessary, as the Minister of Defense said, with new submarines in time. But here we weigh the different defenses against each other to just see them in one whole, so that we also take a responsibility and are prepared, to put it this way, in different areas. We depend on all of this to have a credible defense. We have said a lot about material – I agree with Ellingen in – but we also need to talk about personnel. Here the Minister of Defence has said that there will be things on the table that show that we are renewing ourselves in this area. We also need to have a staff that's up-to-date on this in the different branches, and that can look into the future. It's not just to buy a modern frigate; it's also to be manned. The Labour Party shall ensure that it is the guarantor that we are also fully aware of the human resources situation, and shall make every effort to be up-to-date in this area, so that the defence constitutes a war-preventing threshold which clearly demonstrates that it will be at both high risk and cost to provide an estimate of Norway’s security and independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e819	"Send in the Marines" is the expression that runs in my mind when I hear the representative Nordtun, sent in the broom to defend the government. I'm not sure if it's necessary in connection with this interpellation, because I choose at least not to perceive the representative Ellingsen as primarily going to attack the years we've been behind us, but rather, in the light of the experience we've had in recent years, to look ahead. In fact, no matter how you choose to look at it, the investment share in current budgets is going down. It is quite in stark contrast to what has been the overall picture, which has created broad consensus in this room, that the investment share needs to be increased. The fact is, in any case, that we need to look forward, and first of all think about what the Defence needs over the next 10–15–20 years. Because there are a lot of people who think it's established that the threat we had during the Cold War is gone. There are other factors now that make the challenges work. I understand this picture that's being drawn, that now you can over-comply with the long-term plan. That's just a partial truth. The fact is that the share of the defence in the national budget is falling relative to gross domestic product. It's going down. It doesn't go up. And we can thank our huge oil wealth for being able to pursue a policy in this area – fortunately in stark contrast to what is the situation for most other countries. In fact, once the threat scene has changed diametrically, we know that with the enormous challenges we face in the exercise of authority, monitoring and control within Europe's second largest maritime area country, the challenges are no less, they are getting bigger. We've had events in the last year, cf. July 22, which shows that we get some new challenges that we have to be able to finance in the coming time. I think it's all reason – as I choose to perceive the interpellant – to be honest about the challenges we're facing. The cultural budget has increased twice as much as the defence. It is clear that when the other countries, including NATO countries, are at their knees economically – the US has increased its funding of NATO from, ten years ago, 50 p.m. to today over 75 p.m. – and we see that any neighbouring country that does not bathe in oil revenues has to cut defence expenditure, all will understand that we have to take a much greater responsibility even in the years to come. That's going to be the historic challenge we have to face in the time that's coming. I am very pleased that the government has an open window on the challenges we face. There is no doubt that when we look back on, for example, fighter aircraft purchases, there is every reason to ask many, many questions about procedures, development and cost images, and not least about how we should be able to cope with the operation of this giant purchase in the years to come, at least after we have got these planes delivered. We can no longer lean on others, we have to take greater responsibility for ensuring security and the exercise of authority control ourselves. For example, we've only seen in the last couple of weeks how this safety screw has got a new revolution. The Russian rhetoric just by taking a jet to land that has obviously been cheated, has created a colder climate in the north. We don't have to face the situation that we're going to make the biggest investment in equipment in mainland Norway, which we can't afford to use where it's planned and will be used in the time that comes. We have recently seen that one of the EU's tops, Diana Wallis, is behind a new report in the EU that says something about the Svalbard Treaty, where things we take for granted, are not taken for granted by the countries that we historically have as our best and closest friends. These are the ones we need to work with in the future. We are facing major challenges in monitoring, rescue and control. We're going to get the northern sea route in place. We don't need challenges. But we must jointly ensure that operations, investment, exercise of authority, monitoring and control can have the place in our budgets that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e834	Dear President – and when I look at the audience in the Chamber during this debate, I think I will add – and good friends! The President asked whether the term ‘sabla precious’ is a parliamentary term. I don't know, but at least it's opaque – very comprehensive – when we talk about investments in the Defence. Today, when we're out visiting the Departments of Defense, it's a completely different atmosphere than it's been before. Employees and guardians experience that the service in the Defence Service today is of a completely different nature. This is due, inter alia, to: that the defence has a lot of new and modern equipment. When the Foreign and Defence Committee recently visited the garrison in South Varanger, the soldiers there on the border were obviously proud of their service, and they said to us: We have the best equipment in the world. It wasn't like that before. The reason was that we in the Norwegian defence used the large amount of money incorrectly. We spent a lot of money operating a large number of camps and bases that we eventually didn't need. Now we have fewer camps and bases, and that has made us free money for investment in new material and for the operation of the Defense. Norway today has some of the best and most modern defences that NATO countries can offer. It is not least known by the inter-pellant, who is the head of the Science and Technology Committee in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and is well aware of the situation of many of our allies. The reason why we have such a good defense is that we have been through a great transformation over the last ten years, and that we have bought a lot of new equipment and new material. The representative Nordtun mentioned a good part of those investments, and I'm not going to repeat it. But I remember when the Storting went to the quick acquisition of new transport planes, C-130 Hercules. If I'm not wrong, it was in 2007. So I certainly believe to remember that it was the Progress Party opponent of. I also remember when we decided earlier this year to go to the acquisition of four training planes of our new fighter planes. That too put the Progress Party around a violent bride. It may have been due to the fact that the representative Ellingen was away, physically, at that time. Unfortunately, I would say, for if he had been present, the process from the Advancement Party might have been different. I say this because we have been through some demanding exercises in getting the defense that we have today. But we still have major challenges, because one thing is certain: in ten new years neither the world nor Norway will look like it is today. We're going to continue through big investments, with the new fighter planes as the second-largest. We're going to have new helicopters. The maritime defence shall subsequently have new vessels. The army needs new equipment, and eventually we may also have new submarines. It is a great deal of investment that the interpellant has also pointed out in the debate earlier today. New state-of-the-art equipment is expensive to operate. If you buy a car that is more advanced than your old car, it is more expensive to operate. And it's a challenge to: New top modern systems are also challenging personnel, because there's very advanced technology in these systems. It is challenging for the defence staff, but it is also challenging for those under protection. There are very complex systems to operate. Finally, what is the conclusion to the questions that the interpellant has raised today? I want to say that we still have to have a change of defense, maybe not as big as we've had in the last ten years. But there's no reason to believe that the defense and the world is going to look just like today ten or 20 years ahead of time. We have to have a political majority in Stortingen to bet on the Defense. Luckily, we have it now. We need to continue investment in new equipment for Defence, and we need to focus on the human resources in Defence as an organisation, focus on the personal situation, not just on crowns and ears and equipment and planes and boats and everything we normally spend time on. Finally, we must have a good and continuous long-term planning in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e857	After listening to the two representatives from the Workers' Party, it had been tempting to say that from my point of view it was perceived as an attack on the budget for the next year. So it hasn't been at all. There has been a focus on the consequences of the large investments we are facing. I believe that the representative Myrli to the degrees underlined at the end of his post, namely that it costs a lot of investment, but that it is on the operational side of the highest figures. I'm going to think that once we've had our new fighter planes for 30 years, the operating costs for them will be higher than the investment costs – from a 30-year perspective. Then, as the representative Myrli had in mind, it is the human resources that ultimately determine the extent to which we can take advantage of the investments we have actually made. Then it's true that we've gone away from a "camp focus" to a more operational focus. It fully supports the Progress Party. But it must also be allowed to point out that there was therefore a larger debate in the spring when it concerned the acquisition of the four new fighter planes from the United States, and the process around them. It is right that the government parties have as their goal – of course – to be the foremost warriors to take care of their defence minister. Something else would have been bad, since they are part of both the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs, but also in principle, I think. But the challenge, as I've tried to point out here, is: there is no one who contests the needs – be in relation to new submarine weapons, new fighter aircraft, new equipment for the Coast Guard, to the Army. But the funding remains unanswered. We have now twice asked the Minister of Defense if she can assure Stortinget – and the Friends of the Defence present here, cf. The representative Myrli – that it will come as mere additional appropriations. Or must it be that employees of the Maritime Defense, and of the Home Guard, even though it is not a weapon, and in the Army, and in other agencies still have to be concerned about the extent to which they will be affected by the massive investments that the fighter aircraft purchase will be, purely investment-oriented but also operational? So that's what's the main balance – the break point – in terms of my interpellation. So I hope that the Minister of Defense can finally say: Take it easy – no other weapon will bear the burden on new fighter aircraft, because it is a national responsibility; it is national regulations that will be taken up in Stortinget on the recommendation of the government. I hope, therefore, that the Council of State can now, by its third option, confirm that this is the case, that it is going to happen through additional appropriations, as we do in the case of foreign operations and other urgent matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e865	It may be funny to feel challenged to establish completely new budgetary procedures and a new basis for discussions with other colleagues in the government, not least with the Minister of Finance, but I will leave it to you. I am glad that this occasion has made it possible to explain the planning process a little more thoroughly. There is, of course, a planning process that is characterized by both thoroughness, breadth and long-termity, and where we are concerned with the balance between the different defenses. The long-term plan will also discuss the issue of funding. As I explained in my first post, in history we have examples of investments that require an extra boost, and we have not ruled out that fighter aircraft can also be such an example. Then I can't let not do a little visit to the post from Ivar Kristiansen, who asked us to look forward and not backward. There may be a lot of good reasons for that, not least when I see that the government that put forward the long-term plan at the turn of the century actually started breaking the path for investments that were set up in the long-term plan with, I think, within 2 billion. kr. It is clear that when you are going to make such a long-term investment like this – and we are in a modernisation process in Defence – predictability, long-termity, completely decisive points, not least for the department itself. That is why I am so happy to hear the reactions also on next year's budget and that this government has actually followed up its own long-term plan. I believe that we can also facilitate a good process around the coming long-term plan, where we will also have a thorough discussion of this investment and ensure that it takes place within a framework that is both responsible and predictable. The representative made a small visit to the investment programme related to the fighter aircraft project. It is important to underline the great ambition of that programme, namely that it provides value creation in Norway at the same level as the purchase price. I am very pleased with the excitement and focus that this investment programme has also had in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e874	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e890	Maritime transport is important for the Right, and therefore, in the last months before Stortinget took a summer holiday, a number of proposals have been made to improve the framework conditions for maritime transport. Just before the summer, there was quite a lot of pressure on the unloading service, which I would like to illustrate by starting with a quote: «The purpose of the pilotage service should be to make a positive contribution to maritime transport. Unfortunately, in many cases the system is considered to be a handicap for modern, efficient and rational use of maritime transport and contributes to a lower and more expensive transport offer for Norwegian business as the main user of maritime transport in Norway.’ The quotation is from the Chairman of the Short Sea Group, Nils Magne Fjereide in the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, and it actually illustrates a great crisis of confidence between the Coastal Agency and the Losing System on the one hand and the business community on the other. I submitted the interpellation in July 2011. In the meantime, it's been a summer vacation, I've been in paperwork and I'm back this week, and so the Council of State has had plenty of time to think through an answer. I am thus recording that exactly one week ago – certainly randomly, since she was going to be in an interpellation debate on the topic today – she said that she wanted to put down a sample that would give a NOU, just to get a comprehensive review of the unloading service. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on that. That's why I now want to turn something of the interpellation, which was about to have a critical approach to the government, over to ask, how are you going to improve the situation? If you look at what the Right Party and the Advance Party have done, it is not that long since the Council of State was in this Chamber and recommended the Stortingen to vote against the following proposal: ‘The government is asked to implement changes in the unloading service with a view to reducing the number of unloadings and the reduction of charges and charges associated with the unloading service imposed. The size points in particular to the possibility of improving the system of evidence of fairway. The size assumes that measures do not increase the level of risk.’ – promoted by the Party of Advancement and the Right, voted by the other parties. I think it is good that the Council of State later comes back to Stortinget. She has not done yet, but she has at least notified the Storting that something is coming. Today, ships over 70 meters are uncoastal. The maritime transport costs more than 500 million. kr in the year in question, and the service has been fully paid for by the user. The release order came into force on 1 January of this year. Several have reported aggravating conditions for sailing on fairways, despite the objective of increasing numbers of people using fairways and fewer people using pilot licences. Several actors claim that there are difficulties in obtaining the certificates and that constant changes to the rules have nothing to do with maritime safety or the environment, but that there is an ongoing struggle to secure jobs. As long as the scheme is 100 pst. There is no cost control over this, as there is a system that encourages increased use. The purpose of my interpellation today is to have a debate with the Council of State to increase the use of fairway certificates instead of casualty, while at the same time having a good debate on maritime transport. There is no doubt that the government has done a bad job with the legislation that is now in force. There were no prior warnings. The hearing opinions were slaughtered by the industry, they were improved by the government, but it has become worse than it was supposed to. That's why I think it's a good idea that the Council of State is a little ahead of us. The challenge now is that the government can in practice expose the industry to an action vacuum for two years. This is because the Council of State wants to set up a sample to examine this, in the form of a NOU, and the Council of State has announced a mandate in the media in December of next year. It means one year without anything happening in terms of decision-making. We know that the NOU is going to be consulted, so something has to be made for the Storting, and then we are actually very likely to get back to a new big business – and hopefully a new government – before we decide on this. There is some of what perhaps more have criticised the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast, that there will be many samples, many investigations and little action. For the problems have not been solved even if a sample has been set for a NOU. They still exist, and then you really have to deal with them right away. The unloading obligation is governed by the regulation itself. Indicate here the number and waters to which this obligation applies. However, many areas are exempt from the obligation of unloading and stricter rules have been laid down for vessels to be exempted. Evidence of danger is geographically limited and applies to one or more ships. As said, from the new year the new regulation was applied, and it has not had the effect that everyone has really hoped for. Several shipping companies say that local length limits on ships are randomly imposed by individual unloading districts. This results in local variations that contribute to a completely different direction from the introduction of fairway vouchers. The reason why the Right has focused on this in this interpellation, other interpellations and staging proposals is that this is the logistics of Norwegian business. High navigation safety is of course important. The pilot service is an instrument for maintaining high navigation safety along with a number of other measures. So changes in the unloading service, for which we are addressing, are not a question of the level of safety at sea, but rather a question of how we can ensure safety in a sound and cost-effective way, and at the same time promote the political objective, which also in the state budget shows a wrong trend: that despite political goals of getting goods from road to sea, it is thus the way to get the big increase in the future. It is therefore necessary to assess the whole of the unloading system against the enormous progress made in recent years in the field of navigation safety, such as education, training, technical development, maritime traffic centres, improvement of lighthouses and signalling systems, which are now arriving. Today, users of the loco and maritime traffic centre pay more than 640 million. kr for this. There are large costs that could have been saved. In the Sunnmørsposten we could read on 1 July this year that the Coast Guard and the Losvesene could no longer deliver confirmed orders from cruise ships – confirmed orders made one year in advance – which resulted in delayed arrivals, cancellations of calls and financial losses for shipping companies and traders in the travel industry on land in District Norway. The European Cruise Service documentes 11 non-unloaded cases of 12 days in June, despite the dimension and organisation of the pilot service based on needs and expected developments, and that it is 100 pst. user paid. If one has too much to do, which is some of the reasons given by the losers, and has a conflict with the employer Coast Guard, perhaps a large increase in the issue of the fairways would help solve the problem for all parties. That was the whole purpose, and then it's weird that it's the opposite that happens. Hagland Shipping in Haugesund says that the new pilot code that has been in force has suffered a severe deterioration in the conditions for sailing with fairway certificates. Captains who have previously been released on board are now required to do so on very well-known sailors. The Special Conditions and Restrictions scheme is considered to be a moving rule in the Coastal Works which changes at random intervals without information to ships, shipping companies, ports or others, but hidden on the Coastal Works websites. That is why, right now, political governance is calling for this process, for the time being overdue for a full review of the scheme. It's been a long time, and a lot has happened. The government is now starting with a NOW. I believe, however, that the Minister of Fisheries has to look at how the Coastal Agency practices this, and how the piloting service practices this, for the problems mentioned this summer, applies for the rest of the year, regardless of whether the sample of the NOU has fallen. The Norwegian Veritas was engaged in a review of the unloading system a few years ago. They presented a report that showed a potential for savings of approx. One hundred million. kr and a reduction in the number of unloadings between 25 and 30 pst, without going beyond safety. We also know that there are other ways to do it. In the case of the accommodation service, which the Coastal Agency would like to provide, there are alternative ways to do so. In Florø, the rescue company operates that service and has saved – according to rumors – $10 million for the state at reduced cost and reduced standby cost. I think there's so much left here, so the NOU is in place, but the measures are really quite obvious and should be known to the Council of State. Right-handers want a professional and safe pilot's service and believe ships with navigators without adequate fairway competence shall use unloading. But more navigators with fairway certificates will be able to release resources for those who actually need them. The right has asked the government to start working on a full review of the means of maritime transport, and so we have asked for a full review of the unloading service. It has been voted down, and only the Right Party and the Progress Party have actually voted for this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e936	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. The disembarkation service is one of our most important maritime safety-oriented measures to take account of life, health and the environment along the coast. The pilotage service also provides some important framework conditions for the shipping industry, with a cost framework of approximately 650 million. kr per year, which is 100 per cent financed by users. We have done a lot in recent years to solve the challenges faced by the unloading service. An investigation on the unloading service has been carried out in line with what has been outlined in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. As a result of this review, new regulations on unloading and unloading charges were laid down with effect from 1 January of this year. The aim of the unloading review has been to adapt the unloading service to the current traffic and navigational aids. The changes that have now been implemented are estimated to result in between 10 and 15 pst. reduction of the unemployment obligation. Statistics so far this year show that there has been a growth in total unincorporated traffic. In this underlying-growth image, sailed with loosely increased marginally by 1.6 pst., while sailing with fairway evidence has increased by a total of 11.3 pst. Interpretation of statistics should be undertaken with caution, but this result suggests that the new rules have been largely effective. The certificate system allows vessels to carry a certificate of fairway rather than to unload. It also provides for significant savings for both the Coastal Works and shipping in terms of resource use. I am familiar with – as the representative Kambe points out – that the shipping industry has expressed some dissatisfaction with the practice of the new Fair Trade Evidence System. Part of this dissatisfaction, I think, could have been averted if the parties had previously been in dialogue with each other. That is why I am pleased that the Swedish Coastal Agency has organised a working meeting with the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation and the Shipowners' Association on the consequences of the new rules of the Liability Regulation. Both dialogue meetings with the industry and the Coastal Authority’s own processes have led to a number of interventions to respond to the criticisms raised against the practice of the new Fair Card System. The coastal body has removed some local limitations in the fairway certification system introduced in the spring, which were stricter than the restrictions practiced with the old system. In particular, these local constraints have caused a good part of the reactions of the industry. In addition to removing these new restrictions, the Swedish Coastal Authority has also asked an independent third party to carry out a maritime safety risk assessment of a number of existing local limitations. If this work results in recommendations to remove or change local restrictions, the industry will be consulted before the changes take effect. The work in this area is, in other words, in the right track and is in dialogue with the industry. As I've already explained, we've achieved some of the objectives of the new unemployment insurance regulations. We have also solved some of the challenges that have arisen along the way, which necessarily have to come when introducing a new system. However, there are still several challenges that we have not yet solved as well as we want. But we're going to grab hold of this. The loss service has faced some economic challenges in recent years. It has, among other things, resulted in tax increases that have sometimes exceeded the expected price developments in society. Furthermore, there have been some challenges related to the practice of the new unemployment obligation regulation. These challenges have been solved a while ago, which I have already addressed. Now there are some challenges that need to be addressed in a wider context. It is linked, for example, to: to the overall scope of the pilot-in-command service and the extent to which the pilot-in-command system may replace the use of pilot-in-command on board the ship. I am concerned that legislation should not be considered as being stoned. We need to be open to look at change needs when developments warrant this. It is now more than 10 years since the last time that an overall review of the unloading service was carried out. It was in connection with St.meld. No 47 for 1998-1999 on the evaluation of the unemployment and unemployment benefit system. Following the government's assessment, there are several factors, as I have pointed out, that require a new review of the unloading service. The Government has therefore decided to set up a public body to carry out an overall review of the unloading service and the legislation relating to the unloading. The committee shall investigate the scope and organisation of the pilot service. Furthermore, the sample shall see the unloading service in conjunction with other accident prevention measures. The use of evidence of fairway shall be further assessed. The pilotage service shall also be assessed in relation to technological developments, both on land and on vessels. Although the unloading service has some challenges, I would like to stress that the unloading service is an important maritime safety measure. It is today, and it will be in the future. The vessels representing the greatest risk will also need to be unloaded in the future. The pilot-in-command provides a risk-mitigation effect and adds additional capacity to the ship. The lot has a peak competence in local waters and has practical experience in the waters under all types of weather conditions. In addition, the pilot has the function of first line standby in the event of an accident. The government wants to further develop the unloading service as a forward-looking, cost-effective and user-friendly service, which will continue to carry out important societal tasks related to the environment and safety. The work of the committee will be a central input into the government's efforts to further develop the pilot service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e959	Thank you very much for a constructive response. I am pleased that the Council of State is on the matter. I am still a little skeptical about whether she has an executive capacity in the two years that remain of this vacuum. Because then there is still a lot to happen, which, after all, is the basis for both several large-scale proposals and several interpellations here in the Stortinget. As far as the mandate is concerned, at least no one from the Grand Duchy has seen it. I do not think the mandate is clear to the NOU either. What I'm going to ask the Council of State now, and then I'm assuming that one also looks at the organization of the Coastal Works in general, is: Will it be natural to separate the losers as a separate department, which was part of the debate ten to eleven years ago? Today, it is the way to control and work and charge a fee in a unit. A lot of people have asked critical questions. Is it interesting for the government to consider separating the accommodation service itself, so that the Coastal Plant does not have it, and that you can rent it if necessary, depending on where you are? As far as the composition is concerned, one is concerned that one has the widest possible composition, where the parties who have now criticised that arrangement are allowed to participate, while also the losers must be allowed to join in and come with their side of the case. I am also aware that several shipping companies have notified many navigators who want to obtain a fairway certificate, and examinations have been postponed and postponed for an ironic reason: there are not enough pilots who can approve the assessments from the tests. This is going to be a mistake and is something that the Council of State should contribute to cleaning up. That is what I would like the Council of State to take up in its next article. Just like we have rescue centers, we now also have a good deal of traffic centers for the sea. With today's technology, remote-loose projects can be a good measure to take advantage of the expertise and technology of these centres. How does the Council of State view this in connection with the work to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e975	I thank the interpellant for noticing that I am what he calls ‘on’ in these matters. I have actually been before the interpellant took a vacation and a paper commission. It is not that it is related to the absence of the interpellant from this hall that I discovered that here there was an area that absolutely required focus. I have received feedback from many that there have been challenges, and that is, of course, the background that we are now doing the work we are doing. Then questions were asked that today there is no incentive to reduce costs. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has announced a simplification programme by the government which has quite a large amount of money in it. There we all have to contribute in each of our areas – to reduce the cost of business, of course, also applies in my area. So the incentives are very high in terms of getting things done as reasonable as possible. As far as the mandate is concerned, it is relatively clear and unambiguous what this sample should be involved in. They shall investigate the scope and organisation of the pilot services, in particular to review the following: How can the pilot services, taken into account in relation to other maritime safety-related elements and measures, contribute to the prevention of accidents, groundings and loss of life, health and the environment? Which vessels and geographical areas should be subject to the unloading obligation, including the extent to which the use of evidence of fairway can replace the actual use of pilots? To what extent can the other services of the Coast Guard Agency, possibly new services such as expanded central traffic services, replace the use of unloading on board the ship? What is the significance of the development of navigation equipment and the competence of vessels for the need for unloading services in relation to the environment and maritime safety? And: Should the unloading service be organised as today, or can it be relevant to other forms of organisation for the purpose of cost-effective and operational service with sufficient preparedness without weakening safety? In short, a very broad review, and it will be carried out by a wide-ranging sample. The subsequent debate shall not consist of the absence or omission of it. That's the point. And then the world is still going on while this selection is working. We will make the necessary changes, including: based on the fact that we now have a third party who is looking at the unloading service. If there's stuff coming up there, we're ready to make improvements, even while this sample is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e986	It is almost tempting to say that it is very good that we have paperbacks, so that you can come back to the deck table. There's a lot that happens even if you're on leave. In January, the new Losing Regulation came into force, as the Council of State said. Rail services are important to ensure that ships sailing on the Norwegian coast have the necessary competence and local knowledge to navigate safely. Now we have a season we can gain experience from with the new pilot code, as well as that other criteria have recorded this season. This year's season has in many ways put the unloading service in focus, and through the season I have also had a good dialogue with the industry. Kristine Scheie, who is the owner and manager of the company Kopervik, I visited last year. She is one of those who has been very good at giving at least my input into this. The same is true of Knut Aanensen from Hagland Shipping. These actors have frequent experiences with the loosing service, I should think almost every day, and have had clear insights into what works, and what does not work. We are pleased that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has had a constructive and good dialogue with the industry. Kambe called the Council of State Fisheries Minister instead, but I think we have to be very nice to deal with what this matter is actually about. We have a clear coastal minister. That's very good. Many have been illuminated in the media this summer about the unloading service, and after that I took a trip into the Coastal Station in Ålesund to talk to them about this situation. That's where the administration of the service is now sitting, and it's important to have conversations with them. So what's important to look at? Sea safety must be the absolute overall one. How best to achieve this is easier to figure out after a proper review of the entire service. If we are to have an operational offer that everyone has earned, we also need to look at the opportunities to operate the service safely, efficiently and user-friendly, so that it is perceived as good and modern services, what you get, adapted to the services of today and the future. Much has happened in the ten years that have passed since there was a review of this last one, not least in terms of the technical equipment. That's why it's very important to have this round now to see what you can do with it. Equal terms and conditions based on the same assumptions are important, and having predictability in terms of these services, I think is one of the most important feedback we have received. I have also heard the same stories that the representative Arve Kambe referred to here instead, that these are different practices. There is a need to go through the frameworks and systems that you have, and to improve and put them in a mould adapted to today’s challenges and opportunities. On 19 October I asked the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs whether she would consider an overall review of this scheme. I am very happy that I received an offensive answer to that. Now it's going to be a review. A sample has been set up to work on this and it will provide a good basis for a modern pilot service in the future and a platform linked to the next review of the national transport plan. It's great to hear praise from the industry related to the work we've done so far, and it's good that we now have such a clear coastal minister – it's a little good to have it said! In short, I can say that there is no doubt that there is a strong commitment to this outside. I want to say that when I look in the hall here, you can start to wonder how much the engagement is on the Storting for this matter. I really get hope that it doesn't reflect the commitment that is. I can also say that after traveling around as much as I have done to the maritime industries along our entire coast, I still have the pleasure of hearing some screams for the Maritime Policy of the Right. But I think it is very commendable that the representative Arve Kambe shows commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1012	You should not rule out that there are more people who hear articles, even if they are not present in the room. It's important to have it in the back of your head.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1015	In the real world, there is probably considerable attention to this matter, and also to the matter in a broader perspective. Safe movement at sea is important. Over time, unloading in Norwegian waters has been essential for safe navigation at sea. The knowledge of Norwegian pilots is still important in order to maintain high safety at sea. However, in securing work, authorities must also facilitate the use of new tools and the use of new schemes. Evidence of trade is one of these new aids. A new scheme must be possible without maintaining or continuing a fee or fee under the old scheme. As we understand it, it is such that ships where a fairway certificate is used still have to pay the unloading fee. That is what the Progress Party believes is wrong. It is good that the unloading system should now be examined, but it must be allowed to point out that this government, and not least the coastal minister, often uses the investigation as a sleeping cushion for postponement and lack of action. The Minister of the Coast is in the investigation, but of action. It is also a little special that just under a year after a new regulation on new unloading arrangements came into force, you have to have a public investigation and go through the whole scheme again. Such interpellant also pointed out, a case on the competitiveness of maritime transport was dealt with in the Stortinget in April this year. It was a proposal made by the Progress Party. Then we were pleased to have received the agreement from the Right to the above-mentioned proposal relating to the unloading and unloading service, a proposal to reduce the number of unloadings and reduce the fee and fee associated with the unloading service imposed. However, this case concerns matters that go far beyond unloading and unloading. It concerns the common policy objective on the transfer of transport from land to sea. Within maritime transport, a number of costs are imposed on the authority through a number of charges and charges. This increases the cost of transport in an area that politicians unisontly say is a bet. Therefore, an important measure to increase the transfer of transport from land to sea is to eliminate the full amount of the unloading charge. The removal of the unloading charge is an investment in transport, yes, actually an investment in land transport, because less land transport increases the capacity of today’s transport network in just land. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is not only a review and a reduction of the unloading charge that must be done, it is in fact a removal of the entire unloading charge that must be done as one of several important measures if we are serious about increasing the transport by sea and reducing the transport by land. A problem related to it in the broad perspective of the case is that it is a cross-sectoral measure. It is one of the things we are struggling with in the Norwegian administration system, and also in the Norwegian political system, that we are often poorly able to implement measures that are cross-sectoral. To achieve a common objective, we often have to take action in several sectors. There are often bulkheads between the sectors so large and heavy that it becomes very difficult to achieve the target. In this regard, I shall conclude by saying – with all possible respect for the Coastal Minister – that the Progress Party is such that we would have preferred to see the Minister of Transport in the Chamber when this matter is discussed. We want a comprehensive transport sector where such an important transport sector as maritime transport is in the good community with all transport in Norway. We hope we get there in less than that long. More and more people realise that it is one of the measures that need to be taken, including to strengthen maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1036	I think it is very good that the interpellant has addressed this matter. I have to say I agree that after the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs was at the Transport and Logistics Conference and said that now you have to put down a sample, the debate might be slightly different from what it would be if you hadn't got that clarification. I think it's good that a sample is now being put down, but I must also say I'm a little skeptical, because it's common from the Minister of Fisheries and Coast every time you have some somewhat difficult situations. This applies to both the Fedje and not least the City Ship Tunnel, where the 18th investigation is now under way. There is no doubt that there are two difficult conflicts here. One is, of course, about reducing the cost of industry, while the other is about ensuring safety at sea. I think everyone agrees that security is important, but it's a little bit about who should do what. I think that is an important debate. For the Progress Party, there is no doubt that the most important thing is safety at sea. We do not want to experience any more ‘Server’, ‘Full City’, ‘Godafoss’ or other accidents that we have seen in recent years. We also believe that perhaps the most important thing and what you are most concerned about is to do something about the unloading fees and the cost of the industry. I think that's the most important reason why the Shipowners' Association and others are engaged in using the licenses and perhaps cutting off the unloading service, because the unloading service and the unloading fees have become such a great cost to the industry. I think that's very important to bring with me. I was at the Los Angeles National Assembly this late summer. I saw a lot of issues there. It's not like it's completely black and white, and it's just one or the other solution. It's actually that sometimes it's important to have unloaded, and sometimes it might make sense not to have unloaded. That's exactly why I'm happy that there's now an investigation. It's been ten years since last, it's absolutely time to make a review. But I'm a little afraid that such reviews take a very long time, and then there'll be a vacuum in the situation you'll be facing in that period. I think it's very important that this work goes as fast as possible, so that you can quickly come back and get a really good solution. Then, as I also said before, I think it is incredibly important now that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs quickly gets the mandate in place, and that one might think a little more than just discussing the situation of unemployment, that it is actually also about totality and security. I am pleased to see the mandate that the sample will receive, and I hope, as I said, that the Council of State is concerned that it will be done quickly. It's about the fact that the sea is now losing the goods. Other forms of transport are chosen, and there is no good solution for those who are concerned about choosing the most environmentally friendly and best solution. It is that the cost of maritime transport is much higher than that of part of the other modes of transport. It is important to move more goods across the sea, but then you also have to do something about the framework conditions, which the industry is very concerned about. As I said, the longer we get vacuum, the more of the goods will find other ways. Then it disappears away from the sea, and it will be difficult to get it back. So I really look forward to the job to be done. I also think it's important to have all of the different moments, that it's both about sometimes having the lot is very important, sometimes there might be other solutions. But the most important thing for the industry I think is about costs. If you have far higher costs than other modes of transport, yes, other modes of transport are chosen over maritime transport. I don't think anyone in this room agrees that there is any good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1055	Two days ago, the Transport and Communications Committee had budgetary increases. We've had several days, but that day they were there, all of them by maritime organisations. They had also received the news that there would be a NOW about the looting service. All as one were the organizations almost overcrowded for what was going to happen. They thought it was one of the most important things that happened to their industries. They were also very busy getting involved in this work. That's why I'm very pleased that the Council of State also emphasizes that the selection to work with the NOO should be very broad. And not least I believe what is being said about the mandate, that it should be far, is very good. I also see, as many people have said, that a fairway certificate will be central – how to use a fairway certificate. But one measure that the interpellant Kambe was in on, I'll warn you a little about, and it was that remote unloading could be a good measure – as I see it interpellantly. A test project has been run before, which has not been shown to have good results. It has also proved to be very expensive, and very many ships must have loosed anyway. I look forward to the work that will be done now. The representative, Mr. Sortevik, wanted it to be the Minister of Transport who put it here today. I know a part of the Minister of Transport's field of action, and I want to say that she might have more than enough. The fact that the Minister for Fisheries and the Coastal Region is about to review can be as good as if the Minister for Transport were about to take a ‘goal’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1068	It's fun with red-green internal jokes. There is no doubt that we have an up-to-date loosing system in Norway. Although there's a fairly small environment, about 280 losers, it means that we have to see that so much has happened on the technology front, the education front, the ship's front and the fairway front that the time is overdue for a 'do-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go.' The Coastal Minister boasts that in this matter she is on. The right is on in this case, the opposition has been on in this case. The Minister of the Coast has come up with this matter. Some of the points must be that she does not fall off, because when she has put down a Norwegian public sample, it becomes quite different – and that you do not lose focus. To the representative Botten: every time she keeps posts after my interpellations and my representative proposals on maritime industries etc., she gives the impression that she is almost the only one on the Stortinget who travels around talking to people in the maritime industry. But it's different than Else-May Bottom. Many of us are from the Right, some are from the Advancement Party, some are from the Christian People's Party, and some are from the Left. So I think we also have a good dialogue with the maritime industries. If you look at the proposals and the interpellations that are coming, they will come because we are genuinely interested in the subject. I'm looking forward to the further development. So even if we're done with representation proposals on this, even if we're done with interviews on this, we're going to follow up. The Minister of the Coast has said that she's on - the ball may be wrong - the boat. At least we want to keep an eye on what's going on. There is no doubt that many of the challenges raised by the opposition for six months must be solved immediately, they must be solved now, and then the basic analyses of other things must be added. In the case of Rommetveit and this with remoteness, which I was in, at least my opinion was asking whether these would be part of the NOU report – how it should be done. I am also aware that there are shared experiences with it. But when they're divided, they're divided, and so it could be an opportunity. We have upbound traffic centres in Norway. It's up-to-date, modern things coming. With that, I thank the Council of State, I thank my co-representatives who have taken part in the debate – and I will see you again, Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1087	I will be honest and admit that I am not happy to be sorry that I might have broken the debate, and that someone might have had to write new posts today. It's at least random. In any case, Blackvik describes the world of reality. Safe navigation at sea is important. It's a debate about who lives in the real world – I'm still out there. That's of course the background for me doing what I'm doing. Then I'm criticized for using investigations as sleeping cushions. I think the representative Hoksrud is going a bit far when he compares quality assurance with the KS-system with selection. It's with respect to report two different things. I am very happy that we have quality assurance systems for large projects. I am a major fan of knowledge-based policy development. That's one of the reasons why I'm always staying in the real world. That is also the background for me to seek the good advice of professionals. I want to get the industry's good advice. You do that very well through a wide-ranging selection, and then we're going to act. Just one example to show that we follow up with action when we got the recordings: this summer I got an environmental and risk report from the Coastal Agency. I follow it up with proposals for funding already next year's budget. That's how I want to work. The Right Party and the Progressive Party wanted to have the Minister of Transport here and say that they want to get this part of the transport policy into the good company. If I may, I will take with me the pleasant greeting to the Minister for Transport. I have been sitting in this room in the spontaneous question hour at the same time as the Minister of Transport – I have not really realized that it was the good company that was asked questions. But she'll get that greeting, which she deserves in full. Finally, in this debate, I just have to say: there is no government that has invested more in maritime transport and infrastructure than the red-green one. That is what we see in overcoming the financial framework for maritime transport and infrastructure included in the National Transport Plan 2006–2015 by Bondevik II. Then we further increased the framework in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. It shows a government that bets on this. Every year we have followed up with measures to strengthen the framework conditions for maritime transport. With the 2012 budget proposal, we are also well on track to follow up what is in the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 for the maritime transport sector. We reduce the coastal charge, we have removed the port security charge, and I have serious plans to follow up in the future budgets in that area. It's an important area where I spend a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1102	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1118	Over the last few years, more than 500 people have committed suicide each year, and thousands of survivors are hit hard. This is the most common cause of death among young men in Norway. Suicide leads to more deaths than road accidents do. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, there are 4,000 to 6000 hospitalisations every year due to serious self-injury or attempted suicide. Each of these are people who have their family, their families and their loved ones, and many thousands are affected. We can count the number, but we can never measure the sorrow, the despair and the hopelessness with which their lives are filled. As a society, we have a great responsibility to help prevent and reduce the extent of self-harm and suicide. The action plan on suicide was concluded in 2002 and a number of measures have been taken in the light of it. However, they have not led to a reduction in the number of suicides and self-injury in the last ten years, suggesting a new and reinforced effort. We have to recognize that mental disorders are suffering in the same way as other people's diseases. It hits many, it hits hard, and we have to do more to prevent, treat and combat. We must, as societies and as citizens, do more to prevent people from harming themselves or going to the step of taking their own lives. Suicide is complex. Every destiny that ends like this is different. The causes are often unclear, the variation is large, and we need a better understanding of what leads some to end their depression in this way. Research is necessary, and I would like to commend the efforts that, among other things, is done by the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. Knowledge of this relationship can be lifesaving. According to the World Health Organisation, the most important thing to do is to focus on mental health care. The Roadmap for Mental Health was completed in 2008, but from the evaluation we see that the objective of a good, equivalent health provision for mental illness has not yet been achieved. We have achieved improvement, but there is a need to go further. I believe that the extent of mental disorders – the huge group affected by this – means that we need to recognise this as a public disease and give the attention and priority that this recognition entails. We have 4,500 permanents in the municipalities, but we only have 150 psychologists. The waiting time is too long in mental health protection. There is a risk of waiting two to three months for help — for too long, especially when we know the difficult situation, when a referral is first given. The right has wanted to try a scheme in which psychologists are treated more in the same way as permanent practitioners in the financing of the service in the municipalities. It can give easier and closer access to those who need it quickly. Not only does capacity have to be increased, but we also need to ensure that the measures it is committed to actually produce results. It is then necessary to focus on quality of service. The rapprochement plan also stressed the importance of economic and quantitative objectives. It was understandable, and it was necessary, but now there's also a need to make sure that the help we give actually helps. That we're not in the goal, we get an indication of when we see all those who choose to continue with self-harm, or try to take their lives during or after completed treatment. Psychiatric disorders are hard to understand or explain, but we have to stretch to get better. Over the period 2005–2006, 175 people died while being treated in our healthcare system. We need to ensure that the competence for suicide risk is good enough among professionals. Prevention is about reaching people at risk as early as possible. A survey of 19 000 school students showed that more had been helped by self-injury in 2002 compared with 1994. This suggests that increased knowledge and transparency actually benefit. At the same time, it was apparent that only one in four young people who have done self-harm have been in contact with health services. Three out of four self-injurers did not come into contact with healthcare. It shows that there is a great job to do. I also want to hit a blow to create a culture of openness around mental disorders and support for those who stand up and tell what they're struggling with. The perceived stigma of mental illness causes many to seek help and receive support too late. Nearly half of the self-injuring youths have reported getting help from family and friends. It shows that the close network has important resources that you need to mobilise. We can all see that getting warmth and care from the closest one can mean a lot. More transparency also means more information and more knowledge. People can get better at looking for signs of problems, discover them and support if someone is close to you, has a big need for it. Taking hold of this requires self-confidence, it requires knowledge and knowing what to do when discovering the challenges. It is therefore very important to continue the project ‘Psychiatric health in school’ as a self-employed enterprise organised as today, and not to allow it to become part of ordinary education. Then we know that it will disappear among many other tasks the school has, not get the attention it has today, and not be carried out by people with the same high knowledge as today. I hope that through the 2012 budget process, we can get an overall boost behind continuing the ‘Psychiatric health in school’, organised as a self-institution as today. When mental problems lead people to commit suicide, there is always someone left. They are confronted with a tension of emotion – everyone is heavy. Research shows that those who have support from others, and thus are helped to process their feelings, have a better chance of coping with a suicide at one of their neighbors. The work done by the LEVE organisation and the National Association for the Prevention of Suicide and Suicide is therefore also life-saving health care. Most of this work is voluntary. What they do is very valuable. At the same time, the relevant competences must be included in the research and development work. The 2002 action plan showed a political will to address this cruel issue, which haunts too many. More things have been accomplished. Some improvements have been made, as guidelines for the prevention of suicide in mental health protection are an example, but we are far from the goal. I want us to be able to work together to bring together more concrete actions in a new action plan, so that one here can make a difference in relation to today's situation. Now we have to see a escalation, so that we can hope to achieve our goal of reducing the extent of suicide and self-harm. I have great confidence that this is a goal that everyone can agree to work for. I therefore hope that we can also agree that it is now necessary to start work on developing a new action plan to prevent self-injury and suicide. I hope that the Council of State will respond positively to such a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1158	Contributing to the prevention of self-injury, suicide attempts and suicides is a demanding task for the community. Both politicians, users, survivors and trade unions agree that there are many and complex causes of suicide. The action plan has been implemented and from 2009 there has been a specific commitment to the fight against suicide through a strategy for the period 2009-2012. These measures address a wide range of issues — from better statistics to help survivors. The causes of suicide and attempted suicide are very complex. Therefore, different approaches are required to prevent people from choosing such an option. Action needs to be taken both within and outside healthcare — in schools, in the workplace, in the care of the elderly and in receptions of asylum — to mention some arenas. And it has to happen through the police, through social action, in political work, in housing planning and through the media. Early follow-up and effective responses to drug abuse, mental disorders, sexual abuse of children and social isolation will help prevent suicide. We can prevent a lot of suicides and suicide attempts, but not everyone. A study from the Institute of Public Health shows that boys and girls report conflicts with others as the main cause of the suicide attempt. In young men, suicides often occur on impulse. Conflict between closeness, experience of loss and lack of faith in life's possibilities are key factors in attempted suicide and suicide. Long-term stress may lead to heavy depression before a suicide or suicide attempt. Measures leading to fewer conflicts, which improve conflict resolution, are therefore important. I agree with the interpellant that we have a great responsibility to help reduce the extent of self-harm and suicide. When the number of suicides and suicide attempts is so high, we have to assess whether we're doing the right things. Therefore, in the 2011 mission letter, the Directorate-General for Health was commissioned to review the suicide prevention work and to assess further actions — in addition to what is in today’s strategy. In 2007, the Stortinget dealt with an interaction on suicide. The current Minister of Health and Health Sylvia Brustad referred to the many interventions started and to the Roadmap for Mental Health. Following the phasing-out plan, the means of increasing the operation of services have continued in the basic framework. Strengthening competence has also continued through education, research and development of centres responsible for this. The National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention, together with the Institute for Public Health, is responsible for research and development of educational provision. Regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention shall provide information, education, guidance and networking. In order to strengthen the lowthreshold provision in municipalities, there is a commitment to recruiting psychologists, and provision of training is made for permanent staff. The Specialist Health Service has guidelines for the prevention of suicide and the National Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’ shall have suicide as one of its main themes. User organisations and organisations for the survivors and volunteers make an invaluable effort to prevent suicide. They have extensive cooperation with the regional centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention and the Health Directorate. In particular, the organisation LEVE has provided significant support to many survivors. Self-help Norway and the Help Phone also provide good help to people in a desperate situation. In the last year, the size of the population has dealt with three important issues that will have a bearing on the further prevention of suicide. Through the Interaction Reform, municipalities will have a clearer responsibility for services for people with mental and drug problems. The reform focuses on prevention and health promotion. The tasks shall, as far as possible, be resolved within the family, at the workplace, at school, at the health centre, at the care centre, at the caretaker and the psychologist or in the protection of children. The reform requires close interaction between municipal and specialist health services. Laws on public health work are intended to contribute to a social development that promotes public health and balances social health differences. The municipality shall have an overview of the physical and mental health status of the inhabitants of its municipality. Suicide rates and facts about relationships that affect them are important to come up with. The new law on municipal health and care services is diagnostical. It is in order to ensure that services are prioritised according to the needs of the population and not according to age, gender or diagnosis. Oversight experience in services for people with mental illness has revealed significant failure to provide and follow-up. Therefore, the responsibilities of the municipalities for these user groups are clarified in the new law. The Ministry of Education’s Better Learning Environment for 2009–2010 aims to ensure that all students experience a good and inclusive learning environment with safety, health, well-being and learning. Psychiatric health programmes in schools are now to be integrated into the school system. That children and young people learn to put words on emotions, get knowledge, learn mastery and not least care about each other is also important elements to prevent self-harm. RVTS Vest has a project on suicide prevention in school. The aim is to prevent suicide attempts and reduce the adverse effects if a student or other loved one takes his or her own life. Suicide is a tremendous shock to people who have tried to take their lives and to the survivors. The rapid provision of services is important and, in particular, good psychological and social follow-up is needed in the local environment. I hope that we can get better at meeting and understanding people in crisis after tragic events. The Health Directorate has begun the review of suicide prevention. Already now, the Directorate sees potential for improvement in several areas. Many changes have been made since the last action plan on suicide. As the interpellant points out, these measures have not led to a reduction in the number of suicide attempts or suicides. I agree that there is a need to review and systematise the ongoing work. It is necessary to look at what can be done differently and what can be adjusted. The aim is that today’s strategy is replaced by a new action plan on suicide from 2013. But let me stress that there is continuous improvement in services, which should not stop pending a new action plan. In a new plan, there is a need to focus on prevention in general, on vulnerable groups and on leaving behind after suicide. The plan should also include non-health measures. I would also like to comment that I very much agree with the interpellant that creating greater transparency about mental disorders is also essential in this work and must continue continuously. Experience with knowledge from users, relatives, survivors and professionals is important. I would like to invite representatives from these groups to a meeting on a further plan for the suicide prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1207	It is very gratifying to hear that the Council of State determines that the current strategy will be replaced by a new action plan from 2013. The launch of a new action plan, which is not only a strategy, but also contains concrete proposals for new actions and new instruments in the fight against suicide and self-harm, will be very important and very good. The work already undertaken by the Public Health Institute — which the Council of State had in mind — with a review of the instruments put in place to date, an assessment of these and an assessment of the potential for improvement available will be a very important basis for the preparation of such a new action plan. The Council of State also says that she wants to initiate a meeting with the various organisations in this area to get their views and input. So based on what the government has responded to here, this is a joyous day for all those who are concerned about this work. I want to draw up some relationships anyway. One is that, in the Council's answer, the theme was essentially the emphasis on suicide. Interpellation has deliberately also addressed self-damage in that context. Now, of course, it wouldn't be right to draw a line between suicide prevention and self-harm prevention, but there will be more points of contact. I hope that the new action plan will be an action plan that will prevent both suicide and self-harm prevention, which is a major and major problem among young people. It is important to do the right things along the way towards the new action plan. Ensuring the organisation LEVE and the other voluntary organisations in these areas of good working conditions is an opportunity for us, as big business representatives, through the government budget for next year. When it comes to ensuring the further functioning of psychiatry in school, I have to say that I was concerned about the Council of State's response, when she said this was to be integrated into the school. I'm afraid that in this context, integration means disappearing into school, not getting the pressure or attention that today's organization gives. Then I also agree with the Council of States that even if an action plan is to be drawn up from 2013, there are many important and correct steps that you can take before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1218	I want to comment on some of the issues that the interpellant raised, and especially the concern about taking this into school. If we're going to create transparency, if we're going to create a commonality on the difficult issues, I can't see any other arena that's better to take this up in than school. The fact that it's going to be integrated into school means that it's going into all schools and not just into those who are involved in a project, even if it's been successful enough. When it comes to organisations, I think of them as central to prevention. Of course, self-harm is an important part, because it is obvious that in addition to those who manage to commit suicide, there are many, many others who have tried. Therefore, self-damage is also an important topic. This affects a lot of people. I very much agree with the interpellant. This is why it is so important that we take action on more teams. That is why I am also very pleased with the concrete work done by the Institute for Public Health in identifying the situation in the municipalities. This applies in all areas of health, where mental health is also an important area. Data can be obtained at a very detailed level, and these data will be sent to all municipalities from 2012, so that the municipalities can then see what measures they need to take in relation to frequency, whether mental illness or suicide, in their municipality. Of course, when it comes to the work on this new action plan, it is important that we get all the good input, because we just have to recognise that this is a theme that requires solutions that everyone has to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1229	In interpellation debates, we often open up thanking the interpellant for addressing an important topic. When I thank the interpellant today, it is not only to address an important topic, but also to help reduce the taboo of self-harm and suicide by raising the issue in the public debate. We have to get a lot more transparency about both self-injury and suicide. It's a paradox with the silence of suicide when we know that in 2009 there were 573 people who took their own lives, while 214 people were killed in traffic. We often have the debate on road safety, but when it comes to suicide, we have something to look for. The fact that self-harm and suicide are taboo-covered areas helps us to refuse to ask for help when we need it, and perhaps it helps to make health professionals find it difficult to deal with patients. In a European study in which Norway participated, 6.6 pst reported. Of all young people aged 15–16 years, they had been injured from one to more times. This shows that self - injury is a major problem. What is alarming is that most of these had not been in contact with the health care system. There's probably a lot of reasons for that, but it's connected to shame, it probably doesn't make it easier. Because it's uncomfortable to talk about it, it might also be that doctors or health nurses don't ask the patient when they suspect they're hurting themselves. This is why it is important to focus on the topic and that health professionals are getting better at taking the difficult conversation. There have been discussions among professionals about people who are injured, suicidal or not. There's probably a difference between person and person. The most important thing is to see the cause of self-harm. Self-harm is a symptom, not a disorder in itself. As with all mental health problems, it is important to quickly detect self-harm, and then we need professionals who dare to take the conversation. Those who choose to commit suicide are not a homogeneous group. This is why it is important to bring it with you when you think about prevention. I also think we might have to realize that we can never prevent all suicides, especially those that come as lightning from the clear sky. There has been a good deal in the field in recent years, even though there has been no reduction in the number of suicides. I think it is important that all the good programs and projects that are in progress are maintained. In the case of children and young people, the school is an important arena. There, the Psychiatric Health Programme in school makes an important effort to increase awareness of mental health among children and young people, such as depression and suicide prevention. The aim of the initiative is to provide students with increased knowledge of mental health, a better knowledge of the local auxiliaries and how to take care of their own and others’ mental health. The initiative consists of different programmes, involving several organisations. At primary school you have Zippy's friends and everyone has a mental health. In higher education, STEP – young people meet youth, Venn1.no and VIP, as well as a skills-enhancing course for school staff and the school’s support functions. These are all good programs that we have to take forward. Suicide prevention in municipalities is very important. A draft guidance document for suicide prevention work has been prepared in the municipalities. It has good examples and measures that municipalities can use in their work. The Roadmap for Mental Health places emphasis on competence in this area. It is, as the Minister of Health said, that both national and regional knowledge centres are established as the National Centre for Suicide Research and Prevention. Of course, regional centres have a central and important role to play in educating and guiding municipalities in suicide prevention and care for relatives. It is also important that we look at the older population when it comes to preventing suicide. People over 60 years of age stood for 23 p.m. of all suicides in Norway in 2007, although they represented only 13 pst. by the population. Suicide attempts in this group end more often with suicides than younger suicide attempts. It is important that health care is made more aware and competent about the elderly who may be at risk of depression and suicide. All patients who come into contact with mental health protection should be at risk of suicide. I am pleased that the Minister of Health says that she agrees that there is a need to review and systematise the ongoing work in the field, and that today’s strategy is replaced by a new action plan in 2013. But it is important that, in addition to all plans and strategies, we focus on the fact that we all have a responsibility to create more transparency about both self-injury and suicide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1250	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Höie, for addressing this important issue. I have been in contact with the LEVE association. They say that many people don't have the power to deal with this topic. Every year, an average of 530 suicides are recorded in Norway. About 150 women and under 400 men take their lives every year. It's assuming there's ten times more suicide attempts than suicide. An unknown number of suicides are hidden like other accidents. For example, the number of registered suicides in traffic has doubled from four per year to eight per year. It is obvious that suicide is hidden in other types of accidents, for example. drowning accidents and falls accidents, and every year more than 600 people die abroad without the cause of death being registered in Norway. Many of these may also be suicides. The internal factors cover everything from severe mental illness to personal vulnerability, such as low self-esteem and fear of loss of reputation. Estimates show that healthcare treats 4,000–6,000 suicide attempts every year. It is common to assume that there are about ten suicide attempts for each suicide. Three times more women than men attempt suicide. For many, it's an expression of a desire for help. A number of relationships are important, such as negative life events in the form of physical, mental and sexual abuse in adulthood, the loss of a spouse and other close violations of interpersonal relationships. Loss of work or social positions or other events that feel reverential may be contributing, in addition to failing self-esteem, high demands for self-performance, failing ability to solve problems, conflicts with other people, low tolerance for mental stress and experienced inner loneliness. More than 80 pst. have been in contact with the general practitioner during the last year before the suicide. Better knowledge of suicide and suicidal thoughts among health professionals must be sought. I understand that the Council of State has assessed and will start. I think that's positive. Survivors after suicide often get more stress, both psychologically and physically, than left behind by natural or non-rapid death, and feel more lonely and isolated than left behind after other sudden deaths, such as death. in the case of accidents. Many who are left behind after suicide function significantly less socially than left behind after natural death. Yes, this affects so many. Suicide is still a taboo in Norwegian society. Suicide is still something you prefer not to talk about. I am of the opinion that suicide is a subject that needs to be high on the political agenda, so that taboos can be combated, providing better prevention work to facilitate better follow-up of survivors. Much of the responsibility to lighten the veil and counteract the taboos lies with us politicians. I therefore believe it is important that the Stortinget addresses this issue, as I understand we are about to do now, and put in place a public debate and a separate action plan related to the difficult issues and how to act after the tragic accidents, which unfortunately happens. I think it should be a zero vision in terms of suicide in Norway. That's a very ambitious goal, but we should set that. However, it is important to set high targets and to develop focus and tools to do what can be done. Many community bodies should be implemented in such an action plan. Some are mentioned: kindergarten, schoolwork, psychiatry, other health services, workers’ and employers’ organisations and many others. Therefore, it is important to coordinate a massive plan that addresses the many aspects related to the problem of suicide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1273	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important and serious debate. When over 500 people each year, many of them very young, choose to end their lives, this is a dramatic warning that our outer wealth is in sharp contrast to the inner pain many feel. The story of the individual people behind the numbers is what makes the strongest impression. The relationship between mental illness and suicide is well known. Studies from several countries suggest that about 90 pst. of those who choose to take their own lives have a mental disorder at the time of their suicide. The Roadmap for Mental Health, which they concluded in 2008, has produced many important results in strengthening mental health protection. Nevertheless, it is obvious that in many cases many of the quantitative results achieved are in stark contrast to the experiences of mentally ill people and their closest relatives. Studies show that mental health in young people has deteriorated over a decade. In the light of the action plan on suicide, a number of measures were taken, as the representative Höie mentioned. However, this has not led to a reduction in the number of suicides in the last ten years. That is why there is a need for reinforced efforts. Suicide is more widespread than we think. In 2009, more than 573 people took their lives. It also creates a large group of survivors. Every year, it is likely that 30,000 people feel that someone close to them, or as they know well, commits suicide. Especially young survivors struggle for a long time with anxiety, frustration and depressive thoughts and feelings. They are struggling with concentration problems, sleep problems and increased incidence of somatic diseases. Those who experience suicide among related persons also have a greater risk of both suicidal thoughts and suicide than of natural death. Almost everyone needs help and support from both the professional auxiliaries and from a social network. However, municipalities have very different services. Not all municipalities define suicide as a crisis. This means that, in the event of suicide in some municipalities, survivors will have access to the municipality’s emergency apparatus and emergency aid and experience strong support, especially in the period immediately after the suicide. Others again meet an auxiliary device without clear follow-up procedures, and where the offer is very poor. The National Association for the Survivors of Suicide — LEVE — has just been consulted within the Committee and could tell that many survivors have shown a lack of assistance from the professional auxiliaries, and that the assistance is too short-lived or absent altogether. I also want to pay tribute to the organisation LEVE, to the National Association for the Prevention of Suicide and Suicide and other user organisations for the work they do. They're making a valuable offer. Equal opportunities and self-help groups are an important complement to professional assistance. They need all the support we can give them. It is important, as many people have been involved here, that we give these organisations good working conditions so that they can continue this important work. Suicide prevention is very important. The provision at health centres, in the school health service, in the PP service, in child protection, in the permanent care centre, in the specialist health service and in the district medical centres needs to be significantly strengthened. One of the most important things we can do is to strengthen prevention in the broad sense and in all arenas. However, because the causes are complex, we need concrete measures and broad strategies against large sections of the population in order to prevent suicide. Prevention is a task for the health care community, but very close to the health care system alone. In all environments, mechanisms such as exclusion, rejection, poverty, bullying, assault, unemployment, infringement, etc. lead to suicidal thoughts. Prevention must therefore take place in many arenas outside the health system — at school, at study sites, in the workplace, in research environments, in the police and in political work. It's about catching up early those who are in danger, and giving them a good and broad offer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is now warning of a new action plan, that special attention will be paid to prevention, vulnerable groups and survivors, and that wide-ranging non-health measures are also being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1292	It is a very important theme that the interpellant has taken up and put into focus today. It is, as has been said at the outset, a paradox that, despite the fact that we have had a significant escalation plan in mental health in the last ten years, the number of suicides has not been reduced. It tells us that this problem is complicated, and there are no simple answers. That's why we need more knowledge. While we have to acquire more knowledge, we also have to do even more to get the number of suicides down. The Health Minister has given us a thorough answer, which tells us that there is a concrete and active work in the Department and in the Health Directorate on this question. A escalation plan has been implemented – and a new one is on its way. I am very pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that there will be a new action plan from 2013. What I want to underline as an overall view, without going into individual issues, is that it is obvious that prevention needs to be strengthened. Early efforts need to be stepped up. Psychiatry in municipalities needs to be strengthened, health care in schools needs to be strengthened and the lowthreshold provision for schooling needs to be strengthened. So you have to catch up with the individual who's in the risk zone. Before you get to the point where a suicide is committed, you have to be able to capture the individual and offer and establish help. It's on that plane the main effort has to be put. It has also been decided by the Storting when the National Health Plan and the Health Laws were adopted in spring. Now it's about following up and giving this a concrete content. I also believe that despite the fact that the efforts in the municipalities have been stepped up in the area of mental health, there are still too many people who are not getting help. It does not have to be due to the lack of funds, but it may be due to the local organisation of the offer, or – as in many cases – simply a lack of professionals in the municipalities. Therefore, the main effort to reduce the suicide rate must be put into the community health service. It is, as mentioned above, about empowerment among decision-makers, but it is also about providing the community sector with more professionals – psychologists, as it has been mentioned. It is also important to focus on the survivors – which has also been mentioned in the debate – those who remain and are affected by the disaster. They need immediate, emergency assistance, and many also need long-term follow-up. This is also a very important part of this issue. Here, too, user organisations do a very important job. The organisation LEVE has been mentioned and there are also several. They represent a very important part of the efforts and strategies that must come forward in time. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has also invited these organisations to prepare and implement the next action plan. In conclusion, the inter-pellant said in his speech that he hoped that a broad cross-political consensus could be established on the objectives and measures to be taken in this area. I think it is absolutely right that we should be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1307	Thank you to the interpellant for putting an important item on the agenda. The annual rate is approx. 500 suicides in Norway. In addition, one in ten counts as many suicide attempts as did suicide. A quarter of those who commit suicide are patients who are or have been admitted to mental health protection. In 2009, there were twice as many people who took their lives as those who died in transport accidents. Preventing suicide is a social responsibility. Several measures are required in several fields. The aim must be to reduce the number of suicides and attempted suicides in mental health protection and otherwise. Suicide patients must be protected from defensive treatment. Health care services must target risk groups such as people with depression, schizophrenia or personality disorder. Health care services also need to focus on risk situations that lead to loss experiences and injuries for individuals. State health surveillance has previously pointed out that health professionals and health institutions have too poor competence and procedures for suicide risk assessment. The aim of the action plan against suicide was precisely to strengthen the prevention and health services’ competence and the provision of people in a crisis of suicide. The Health Directorate has developed national guidelines for this work. Nevertheless, as the interpellant points out, this has not resulted in a reduction in the number of suicides and self-harm in the last ten years. Perhaps one of the explanations is that the assessment of suicide risk is one of the most difficult a meeting as a health care professional. Thoughts and plans about suicide are not uncommon in people with mental disorders, but suicide and attempted suicide are rarer. The field has also been taboo, and in response to health care, enough people feel that it is easier to respond to symptoms such as alcohol. shoulder pain or eczema other than the onset of suicidal thoughts or self-harm. Suicide is far from always due to inadequate risk assessment or treatment, but the specialist services have a high responsibility for monitoring and prevention of suicide. I think it must still be in the municipalities that we need to intensify the suicide prevention work first and foremost. Three out of four suicides are done by people who are not or have been in contact with the mental health service. This means that they are key people working to identify suicide risks and to prevent self-harm, suicide and attempted suicide. With the new municipal health and care law, it is an objective that the determinations should be given a more clear and holistic list responsibility for their patients. They should contact and follow-up groups of patients who do not visit the healthcare service itself or who do not meet for an hourly appointment several times. I think that might be important for patient groups with a risk of suicide. So I think that several psychologists in the community health service are a very central measure. That everyone comes quickly for psychological lessons in their own municipality, I think I'm an underrated offer. It has great value as low-threshold measures and as an early prevention and effective response to suicide. Routines must be established to ensure close cooperation between psychologists and local authorities on the prevention of suicide. The school hall is also important. In particular, I would like to highlight the need for a strengthening of the school staff in the secondary school. So I think there is a great potential for improvement in monitoring and assessing suicidal ideation and the risk of suicide in users before the care of the elderly. Suicide and attempted suicide are a major concern for relatives and survivors. Our relatives have been an neglected group in the suicide - prevention work. As the representative Sonja Sjøli had in mind, the municipalities have different facilities. Survivors after suicide in some municipalities get access to the municipality’s emergency aid, while survivors in other municipalities meet an auxiliaries without proper follow-up procedures. We need a commitment to follow-up of relatives and survivors and to strengthen the peer work that is being done in this field. I am pleased that the Council of State announces a review and a systematisation of the ongoing work, and that today’s strategy will be replaced by a new action plan for 2013. But the prevention of suicide is not alone a responsibility for the health sector. This is a responsibility for all sectors of society, from school to work. Creating an open and inclusive society with small class distinctions where everyone feels that they can participate and be valued is fundamental and perhaps more important than we understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1336	I will first give tribute to the interpellant to raise an important debate. As the interpellant points out in the interpellation, more than 500 people commit suicide each year, and 4 000 to 6 000 are admitted due to attempted suicide. In addition, there are those people who go on suicidal thoughts or commit self-harm every day. It is therefore important and right for the interpellant to call for a new action plan, which is also now being announced by the Council of State, in order to prevent self-injury and suicide. For most people, self-damage and suicide are totally unimaginable, and we therefore view it as incomprehensible that someone chooses to suffer pain or to take their own life. Most people who hurt themselves on purpose or commit suicide know the consequences of what they do, but they are overcome by an intense negative discomfort combined with an experience that self-harm or suicide is the only or best cure that can bring immediate relief. A patient can tell you the following: "I had had the bad feeling for so long, but I had no relief until I learned to stick in my thigh with a pencil. For the first time I found something that worked, and I wept out of pain and joy." I want to join in what the interpellant says in his question: a reduction in the number of suicides and self-harm requires a reinforced effort. Of course, this applies to the very specific, targeted actions, but it also applies to all the efforts falling within the category ‘all related to everything’. Then we can talk about fighting bullying in school, about mastering, about what's going on in life courses – I can mention a lot of positive actions that aren't necessarily related to the theme, but as we know comes under the category 'everything related to everything'. Early efforts are important to reduce serious figures, ranging from basic school and kindergarten interventions, to mastering and ensuring that everyone is involved, to the school health service and the mental health service for children and young people in municipalities. It is alarming that as many as 16 p.m. of the municipalities warn of a cut in the mental health provision of children and young people. It has been cut over 220 annual works in this offer only since 2008. The most serious thing is that it doesn't seem to be any improvement in the near future. Suicide rates have increased dramatically in some of the younger age groups over the past 40 years. There is extensive evidence that many young people are struggling with mental problems. I would therefore like to put a question mark on the waiting time guarantee for mental health care for children and young people. Today, children and young people under the age of 23 with a need for treatment for mental health problems are not guaranteed treatment until after 65 working days. This means approximately. three months awaiting the necessary health care. Although the guarantee is there, it is not given today that treatment is given within the prescribed limits. I wish the Council of State made it an explicit goal that no child and youth should have to wait for treatment for their mental illness. Like Mr Wenche Olsen, I would also like to focus on the elderly. Loneliness, isolation and the loss of others lead to a high rate of suicide among older people. In prevention work, it will also be important to draw attention to older people who have changed their life situation. There is evidence that older people are generally reluctant to seek help. It is therefore important that the prevention of the elderly is based on an outreach offer that takes care of those who have lost some of their loved ones or who live in solitude. Finally, I will mention the amazing efforts of the voluntary and non-profit organisations. Let me do one example. The Church’s SOS, with its 1,000 highly qualified volunteers, responded to 180 000 enquiries in 2010. Every day, the organization talks to people in crisis for 100 hours. Such measures are invaluable, for those who use them, for their relatives and for the rest of society. Just this type of action saves very many inalienable lives, and must therefore also be supported by the public to ensure that they can have a good professional offer and that they have enough resources to follow up the volunteers. Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for promoting the debate, and I wholeheartedly support the call for a new action plan, as the Council of State is now warning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1363	I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the Council of State for wise words and a wise debate. Winston Churchill did not like to stay in a room with a balcony, and he was afraid to wait on the train platform for near the edge, but he could not let be in between to walk carefully away to it. Instead, he placed himself so that there was something between him and the edge – some obstacles. He was plagued with depression and heavy thoughts. He is not the only one who has had such thoughts, and some have taken the last step – to the last. Suicide can be a symptom, a lack of faith that the darkest should go away, and that is a symptom with the most serious consequence. If a person is to prevent the suicide, he must address the challenges that create the mind. It requires robust mental health protection. In the fight for budget heads, it is important to think that it is not always those who struggle most with the heaviest thoughts, who cry out most about funds. We all who are politically active should remember that in these days. It's about solidarity and democracy, the idea of your neighbor, and the ability to listen to those who don't speak so loud. It is important to do the work that is being done in the municipalities, as the Council of State and the Wenche Olsen mentioned in their contributions. We know that many people commit suicide on the way out of a depression. On the way out of the depression, the energy comes back -- one can do what the thoughts say. To save lives, it's important that we prevent and capture the depression before it gets too deep. The government’s efforts to provide rapid mental health care are a very important tool in this way. Here you get a help early. The model is from England, where one has full-scale low-threshold offers. It works – more people get healthy, more people come to work. How many lives it will save, don't know, but that it does, there's no doubt about it. To get help, you have to be able to put words about suffering, and the outside world has to be able to catch it. Openness and concern can save lives. It doesn't have to be that much, a cup of coffee, a phone, a little understanding, a little bit of hope and a way of life. Hope is the most important thing. That's why campaigns for transparency and for talking to each other are important, and they have to go on continuously. If a person succeeds in suicide, it is important that those who remain do not live with guilt and shame. LIFE and other organisations that meet people where they are make a formidable effort in relation to that work. It also does the user organisations, which take care of those who have actually not committed suicide. Low-threshold phones, low-threshold services, are very important. It is important in this case to also know that there is a big city perspective in it. There are more sufferers in the big city, there are more sufferers in the east of the city than in the west of the city. A good policy to prevent suicide can be one of the obstacles set up when someone who thinks dark is moving towards the edge of the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1380	Let me first of all be allowed, as everyone else has done, to thank the inter-pellant for putting a very important debate on the agenda – a debate and an area that unfortunately does not provide clear and simple political facts to solve the problems, because it is so complicated, and it is so complex. It's about people, people who go out among us all, who we meet on the street, who we may meet at the workplace, who we meet in the schoolyard. We meet them everywhere, but we may not be able to see or record that there is something “mal” with Ole – that Ole is having a bit of toughness, it's having a hard time. Then I ask myself, have we, as a fellow human being, perhaps forgotten one of our most important roles, to look and care about the ones we have around us? As fellow humans, have we become more concerned about ourselves rather than seeing those we have around us? Because it is thoughtful that 4,000 to 6,000 people each year try to take their own lives. It's thought-provoking that over 500 people a year manage to end their lives, and it's thought-provoking that three times more women than men are trying to take their own lives. This means that we should all bring this matter up on the agenda, bring it to the fore and find out more about how we can meet it, how we can take good action. It's a lot about people who should've just become a little bit too heavy to carry. It may not appear on the outside, as I said initially in my post, but you carry it inside. You know that about 80 pst. of those who have committed suicide have been in contact with the health care system in some way in advance of the last year. That means that the people we're talking about here, who have had the heavy should hanging over their shoulders, who we may not have seen, who also haven't seen the health care community, have tried to give a signal about it, tried to make sounds by looking for a doctor. This involves competence — the competence we have to identify these problems, take action early and prevent suicide or attempt to do so. Here I would like to pay great tribute to all the volunteer organizations that do an excellent job towards the people who have thoughts of committing suicide, and also in the way they follow up the survivors in retrospect. It might be equally important. I think the public utility has a lot to learn from the volunteers about how to be met afterwards. I have even met parents who have lost their son or daughter because of suicide. They are in a totally desperate situation and are trying to go to the public auxiliaries and get help, but are being queried. It is not considered to be critical for the person concerned, and it is not given the help you would like and is entitled to. Many feel forgotten about the system. Many also do not have non-governmental organisations around them. There's a big difference between living in Oslo and living in a small district municipality with 700 inhabitants in the Nord-Trøndelag. But the relatives who experience this experience the exact same deep tragedy and need exactly the same kind of follow-up and help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1391	This is a serious and important debate, and I will, like everyone else, start by thanking the interpellant. I think he deserves commendation both for pointing out how widespread suicide is, and also for stating that suicide does not happen by accident. Suicides occur in all groups, but some are overrepresented, for example: young men. Filip Rygg used the Gro Harlem Brundtland text "everything related to everything" in his article. It's completely in place. Suicide is about health, but it's about a lot of other things: what attitudes people face, about what they experience in life, at school, at home and everywhere else. Action against suicide cannot just be introduced into the health care system. Schools and kindergartens are important, as are child protection, workplaces, non-governmental organisations and many other arenas. Yeah, it's actually about what's going on in every community area. I want to use my post to give a concrete input into an action. In the United States, there is talk of a suicide epidemic among young people who are, or are, taken to be, lesbians and homosexuals. Nine out of ten American lesbian and gay teenagers are exposed to bullying. International studies show that the risk of suicide attempts is from two to six times higher among homosexuals and lesbians. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that this is the case in Norway too. I lack words for the frustration and remorse I feel that we have not come any more. Ten years ago, the film came «BE – dirty, sinful me». It tells the story of Bjørn Erik, 20 years old, who, in all likelihood, killed himself because it became too difficult to be confessing Christian and gay. Kai, another youth, left a suicide note with the wording: ‘I’m gay, mom and dad. But it is too tough." He feared that everyone would turn his back on him. Imagine if anyone knew how tough Kai and Bjørn Erik were, if anyone could sit down with them and say, "It's getting better." Unfortunately, we cannot, but we can convey the same positive message to other young people who are struggling. Because it actually gets better. You will live a good life – with love, friendship and self-respect. And attitudes change. This is the idea behind the American video project "It Gets Better" – it gets better. Many millions of people have seen movies like adults, known and unknown, publishing, sharing their stories about their own, good lives. The message is: it gets better. I think we need a Norwegian It Gets Better project. The point of the campaign is not to reinforce the image of lesbians and gays as a group that is struggling, the point is the opposite: sharing positive stories – stories that life is going to be good – that can be brought about by youth, by parents who worry, by teachers, by counselors and everyone else. I mention this as an example of how to work targetedly and untraditionally in the prevention of suicide and mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1406	It's hard to talk about suicide and self-harm. The more important it is that we, as a society, dare to take this conversation. It is easy to talk about strategy, regulations and plans, but more difficult to talk about the will and desire to live. Does Life Feel Worth Living? Is there a sun there that makes you come through today? One should guard against morbidizing people who are self-damaging or who have thoughts of taking their own lives. A diagnosis has value only if it gives a better understanding of who we are, of each other as human beings and of how we can best master the life we have been given. For other uses, there's only one label, which doesn't tell who the whole human being is. It doesn't create proximity, but on the contrary, stigmatisation. Then we've just created another extermination mechanism that makes life more difficult for them. Through small and large communities, you share moments that you can experience differently. Nevertheless, it is important for everyone to define who you are. Life goes differently with all of us. Some get more Christmas than others. If you've grown up with social problems, it's easy that life gives you more life crises on the way. Many walk tired out there. If you start to worry about the days that are coming, the road becomes even heavier to go. The experience of being humiliated, of losing someone close to you, or of being forced up in a corner where both one's freedom and one's security are threatened or lost, can put people at risk. Putting words on emotions is not natural. Even though we've gone many steps towards more transparency, there are too many who are unable to express what may be difficult to talk about. It's silence that can take life. Many suggest that women are still better than men to talk about the heavy things. Although new generations of men are less bound by former human roles, this is still a problem. We can, among other things: See this when you ask if you have a close friend you can trust. No one can be anything to anyone, but many can be a little bit. Maybe life doesn't look so dark then. Everyone needs a friend and someone to be happy about, someone who listens and understands exactly who you are, without fear that the trust you give at the same time is being abused. Openness saves lives. Everyone has a mental health. It's not unnatural for anyone to change over time, as life with all its sides meets us. Some are more vulnerable than others, and all have their unique starting point for tackling the small and big challenges of life. There is still a silence about mental health in many parts of Norwegian working life. Here, trustees and businesses have a job to do. Equally important is the way we workers meet our colleagues. Work is healthful for those who labor, whether it gives mastering and room to be. We need a lot of schooling for regulars, for knowledge of lifelong learning in our social services and in schools. Among those who get the heaviest should to carry, are those who are left after someone you're happy with, have chosen to end life. In the critical period thereafter, good networks are needed, and some people will need specialised help to help sort and process grief more easily. Suicide is the most taboo of all types of deaths. It's not easy to talk about the experience of guilt and shame that comes quickly. Everything you have of a bad conscience about what you could, should and should do, comes in addition to the extreme loss experience it is. So many of the people who are standing around could be in the risk zone. Either way, we can talk about a dramatic fall in quality of life. Here, voluntary organisations make an important effort, also to create conversation venues for people sharing the same experience and grief. Life has so many shades that can be difficult to see if you're some of the heaviest experiences of life ahead of you. For some who experience such intense mental pain, self-harm and drug use can be an alternative to taking their own lives. The anesthetic it may be, is no long-term good way to deal with life, but it can bring relief, so that you get through today, to better times come. We must have respect for that, too. We need to invest in our social infrastructure and our low-threshold services, which will make it easy to ask for help. It is about several environmental workers in school who can see and listen, a school health service that is close and accessible, more psychologists and a crisis team who take people seriously. We've been through a national disaster as a nation. In the wake of this crisis, we will meet people who will not deal with life. How do we meet them? We can't force anyone to live, and no one can be anything to anyone. But everyone can be a difference for someone. I don't think many of them are struggling, looking at the debate here today, who find particular comfort in our plans. But a little light we can be for someone out there who needs our thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1429	I think it's been a great debate. There's been a lot of talk about suicide. I want a short article about self-harm, because it's very often the same factors that trigger suicide, that also trigger self-harm. I've previously told you from this pulpit about my great role model now, the girl who's come out of heroin addiction. But not rushing away all emotions hurts. This is unknown terrain for her. Even small feelings feel strong, and both good and bad feelings overwhelm her. So when this gets too much and she no longer has the rush to help herself, she cuts herself. Even if it hurts, the pain seems calming, for it is moved from the head and heart and over to the arm. When she bleeds, it's like all those bad feelings run out. In that way, she gets a sense of control over fear, panic, and emptiness. With an arm full of deep cuts and an apartment full of bloodsoul she sought help. In Norway, however, there is no deep cut in suicide attempts, and she was rejected for emergency treatment. This happened in May, and she is still waiting for treatment. After the August intake meeting, it was clear that treatment could be given to spring at the earliest. This shows that our healthcare system does not see the relationship that the interpellant has established, namely that self-harm and suicide can largely be linked. Then we have a way to go. Self-harm is complicated and diverse and is probably one of the areas we can call an unresolved public health problem. Self-injury is common among young people in Norway and other countries, but only a small proportion of self-injuries are assisted. Discovering the problems early is important. It's sad to think that mine might never have become a drug addict if she had been helped when she started self-harm. She started with self-harm, but ended up rushing. In all the years of her intoxication, self-harm ceased — although many would think that intoxication is also a form of self-harm. Her need to cut herself came back after she stopped rushing. This, I mean with all due clarity, shows how much need for help lies with some, but with which society does not do a good enough job. Self-damage and suicide are a big, unresolved problem, which I now appreciate raising the agenda, and I hope that the Minister of Health will not forget the great commitment and concern of Storting for these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1438	First, I would like to thank everyone for their strong commitment to this debate, and it is particularly nice to note that this is a matter that has been committed to the health and care committee, and that all parties have participated widely. I want to start where the representative of Kjønaas Kjos ended, and which the representative of Wenche Olsen was in an excellent way, with the importance of lifting self-damage as a challenge in this work. It is important that we are happy that the Council of State has said that there should be a plan against suicide, not forgetting that we now have a unique opportunity to work in parallel with preventive work against both suicide and self-harm, because prevention is very much the same, although self-harm and suicide are not the same. For self-harm very often a person's attempt to treat himself and his own suffering, where self-harm – incredibly – is perceived as a relief from a difficult situation. It must be met with treatment, but it can also be prevented. Very often, the same prevention strategies against suicide could also be used to prevent self-harm. There is a need for greater transparency and, in particular, transparency that treatment helps. We must not allow it to spread the impression that it does not help to seek help, and that the help given is not good. For the help given, it often works, and often it works quickly. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our colleague, Mr Yrvin, for being an example in relation to being open about mental disorders. Then it's important to look at the role of municipalities, because for the families affected by suicide, it's a crisis situation. Many places in Norway today are such that if young people are killed in a car accident, the municipality’s crisis team is present with family and friends immediately, but if a youth takes his or her life, it becomes quite empty around family and friends. It can't be like that. Suicide is a crisis, a crisis that affects many, and you have to be sure that our municipalities are dealing with a suicide like a crisis in which the crisis team stands up and helps. To ensure that, we need organisations like LIFE, which are available, that can show the way, and that can help many in a very, very difficult situation. So I hope the Council of State can be positive that the Storting is looking at psychiatry in school in connection with the treatment of the 2012 government budget – that we might be able to choose a slightly different organisation from what the Ministry initially put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1453	I would also like to thank the Stortinget for a very good debate and for a very good number of contributions – many contributions that also provide good input to the action plan that needs to come and that will come and apply from 2013. The representative Thomsen began by saying something that Sjøli and several others have also had to say: this is because prevention is also far from health care. It has to happen in this case, and it also happens in many other areas of health. Prevention takes place in kindergarten, school, of course in health care, but also, not least, in the workplace. The representative Filip Rygg focused on some municipalities, 16 pst. – it is mentioned in the budget – reduces its supply in the field of mental health. I'm very glad that 84 pst. not do so, and so that many people also increase their efforts. At the same time, I would like to say that it is a very great responsibility for municipalities to provide low-threshold services, especially for children and young people. There are some municipalities that are model municipalities when it comes to making low-threshold services, there are health-seeker services in common – I kept saying – in the basement of the town hall, or there may be psychologists acting in a really low-threshold offer. I have no doubt that this is a very good investment in the offer of children and young people, and in prevention, not least. In the case of waiting times, I just have to say that although we may think that the waiting times are too long — and they are if you need urgent help, then the waiting times are too long — they have at least decreased in mental health for children and young people, from 65 days to 57, and referrals should be dealt with within 10 working days. But at the same time, I must stress that those in need of emergency care should have emergency care. In conclusion, I just want to focus again on this patient safety campaign in mental health. It will be operational from 2012. What's interesting about it is that in the context of these measures, we are cooperating with many other countries, England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Denmark and Canada. It is new to work in this way with a patient safety campaign in the area of suicide prevention, and that is important. So I just want to say at the end that this debate is important, and I experience it so that it's a very big and serious commitment also from the Storting on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1468	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1484	The background to this interpellation is the partly serious concern raised at a seminar organised by Dagens Medisin on 1 September. The impact of the so-called Congressional Decision of the pharmaceutical industry on the continuing training of doctors was discussed. The member companies of the pharmaceutical industry have established internal legislation prohibiting the sponsorship or payment, from 1 January 2012, of participation and travel for doctors and other health professionals to events abroad under the auspices of third parties. The pharmaceutical industry points out that their aim is to develop innovative medicines that can improve the lives of the population and to market them to health professionals so that they are properly used. They want to focus more on proper drug use instead of paying for travel abroad, congresses and advertising effects. The right will favour the pharmaceutical industry for the purposes of this Decision. It is commendable that the industry itself has taken an initiative and even sets limits and clears up what may have been unclear. It is important that there is a good professional cooperation between doctors and industry. We believe this is important in order to strengthen the credibility and trust of the health care system, and it is in everyone's interest that there will be transparency and orderly relationships. However, the Congress Decision has created a debate and uncertainty about the possibilities for Norwegian doctors to attend international congresses and meetings in order to ensure the necessary continuing training. The pharmaceutical industry has for many years contributed significantly to this, which doctors themselves consider to be a central part of the professional updating and development of competences of Norwegian doctors. The contribution has amounted to tens of millions of dollars each year, estimated between 50 and 100 million. kr. Many doctors believe that the Congress Decision may have a negative impact on their opportunities for professional updating and development of competences, because the loss of sponsoring funds will not be replaced by the employer. There may in turn be consequences for the quality of patient treatment. There were in particular two issues that emerged at the seminar, which I am concerned about getting informed. Firstly, who is primarily responsible for the continuing training of doctors, and what are the responsibilities and responsibilities of the employer under the law? Secondly, how does the employer prepare and provide adequate further training for doctors, now that a significant financial contribution from the pharmaceutical industry is being lost? Director Andersgaard, Health South-East, spoke during the debate at the seminar and to Dagens Medisin no. 14/2011 that from 1 January 2012, when the employer is required to pay for all congresses for doctors, it may lead to fewer hospital staff and a risk of further downsizing, which may in turn go beyond patient treatment and lead to longer waiting lists. If this leads to correctness, it's very alarming. The alternative is the development of competences to suffer. It was also raised doubts as to whether the law is clear enough with regard to the employer's obligation and responsibility to provide continuing training. At the seminar, the section supervisor, Risøe, at Oslo University Hospital, pointed out that there are unclear boundaries in the law on the duties and responsibilities of the employer in the field of continuing training. It is a matter which I would like to ask the Minister of Health to clarify. There is no doubt to the right that the employer is primarily responsible for the professional development and updating of his employees. It was included in the law on specialist services resulting from the Health Business Act § 3-10 Training, Continuing Education and Training, and reads: ‘Enterprises providing healthcare covered by this Act shall ensure that staff members are provided with such training, refresher training and further training as are required for the proper performance of their duties.’;» In the 2005 cooperation agreement between the pharmaceutical industry and the Health South-East, point 3.5 states: «Travel costs in professional terms shall normally be borne by the individual enterprise.» However, this has not been a practice. It is the pharmaceutical industry that has sponsored these trips. Mr Andersgaard further stated that the loss of sponsorship income from the pharmaceutical industry would not result in hospitals receiving fresh funding for educational purposes as regional health businesses have not received fresh funding from the State to cover the loss of the offer from the pharmaceutical industry on the development of competences. This means that the hospitals themselves, at least in the South East of Health, have to cover the costs now borne by the pharmaceutical industry, despite the fact that it can have the serious consequences she herself pointed to. Oslo University Hospital also acknowledges that the situation at the hospital is now becoming even more demanding, and it may be difficult for many hospitals to give priority to educational purposes because they are already in a very difficult economic situation. Other reactions to the Congress Decision of the pharmaceutical industry have also not been delayed. The quality of the services provided depends on the continuous availability of up-to-date knowledge by personnel. As the dynamics and rate of circulation of knowledge and skills are increasing, the need for continuous updating and skills development of personnel becomes equally important. Health professionals must be given the opportunity to be up-to-date with regard to the quality and competence requirements in question and must be given the opportunity to keep up-to-date with professional developments in order to decide on established practices in the light of new methods and knowledge. The health service therefore needs a well-functioning system for the continuous development of the competence of health professionals. And regional health companies have a specific responsibility for establishing such systems. The right-hand side expects to focus more on knowledge and knowledge development, on the quality of treatment and on patient safety. The employee also has a responsibility for the good knowledge and competence. However, although the individual has a personal responsibility for keeping up-to-date, the employer has a primary responsibility to provide for the possibility of continuing training and training. In this case, it is particularly the case of doctors' continuing training, but I would also like to stress that the responsibility and opportunities for professional development must apply to all health professionals. For a long time, I have had several contacts from professionals who are deeply concerned that professional updating and upgrading of their skills are becoming a priority, due to both the high labour pressure and the tight budgets of hospitals. However, deprioritising the development of competences and thus the quality of health services is a poor health policy. If such is the case with many fears, that continuing training will be neglected, and that some employers perceive that there are uncertainties in the law about their responsibilities, this is very serious, both for the quality of treatment and for patient safety. So I hope now that the Council of State can assure the Government that health businesses have the necessary tools to ensure the development of competence through continuing training for doctors after the contributions of the pharmaceutical industry are lost. In the end, I also want to mention other reactions that have come after the Congress Decision. I want to mention a few examples that I've come to know about. These include: that a cancer doctor has now had to cancel a lecture abroad. The reason is that contact with the pharmaceutical industry has been restricted by the employer as a result of the Congress Decision. Another example is that several hospitals have closed their doors to the industry, or will limit their contact — with the same justification. The question is then: who should be informed and schooled, and how should doctors be informed and trained about new medicines if they are to have minimal contact with those who make them? I would also like to ask if the Council of State is aware of signals that contacts between the pharmaceutical industry and hospital staff are now being restricted in many places, and what she thinks about this. But first of all, I want assurances that the continuing training of doctors, and the development of competence, is properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1543	Health professionals are the most important resource and the input factor we have to ensure a high-quality, safe health care system for the population. Maintaining and developing the skills of professionals is an important work that needs to be carried out on a continuous basis. The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli refers to the decision of the General Assembly of the pharmaceutical industry in spring. It states that from 2012 onwards it shall no longer be permitted to sponsor or pay for the participation and travel of health professionals to events abroad under the direction of a third party. She expressed concern that the decision could go beyond the professional updates and further training of doctors. It should be pointed out that the decision could lead to redundancy at the hospitals and that the law seems unclear as to the employer’s obligation and responsibility for continuing training. Let me say that health companies have strict requirements for the safety of patient care, and the competence of health professionals is essential in this context. Health undertakings shall ensure that employees are provided with the training, continuing training and training required to carry out their duties properly. This is clearly stated in the law on specialist health services. That being said, health professionals have a separate responsibility to keep up to date in their field of competence. It also applies to the doctors. The Health Care Professional Act is clear that health professionals should be trained according to their professional qualifications and seek assistance or refer patients to it if necessary. In this way, quality and patient safety are ensured in the treatment. I'm glad the pharmaceutical industry has decided that from next year they won't sponsor doctors' congress trips abroad. Patients should be confident that treatment is based on the best judgement and competence of their doctors, including: through the organisation of training and continuing training by the employer. I believe that the trust of patients in specialist health services can best be ensured by avoiding any ties that might arise from the sponsorship of congresses and trips abroad by pharmaceutical companies. We need clear rules on who is funding the continuing training of health professionals. That's what we're going to get now. The mitigation, which is the starting point for the interpellation, was also received positively by the regional health establishments. Greater cleanliness is important in the relationship between business and industry. The need for clean-up and independence of interest between actors has been a topic for several years. As early as 2006, a cooperation agreement was established between regional health businesses and the pharmaceutical industry. The ‘driving rules’ were set up to deal with invitations, meetings and courses supported by a pharmaceutical company by specialists and the pharmaceutical industry. Contracts were made, so that the employer would have an overview and control of who arranged and paid for the participation. At the same time, it was clarified that no agreement could be reached on support for training courses which provide eligible or approved hours of continuing training. Such training has always been considered to be outside the responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry. When the pharmaceutical industry is no longer to sponsor part of the training of doctors, I believe that employers – even more so than before – have to take responsibility for ensuring the enhancement of skills necessary for the provision of good services to the population. Health enterprises spend considerable amounts each year and make great efforts to train health professionals. Health enterprises have a separate responsibility to assess and plan how health professionals can keep up to date in their fields of competence. Much training takes place through different courses and training activities organised by the employer. I would also like to point out that the doctors are very much involved in the research work of health companies. Development of skills and training in the form of continuing training are a significant element here. I would also like to point out that, through the annual tariff negotiations with the Norwegian Medical Association, the State allocates earmarked funds to the medical education fund. Through the contract institute, the State has arranged for doctors to apply to the Medical Association for reimbursement of the costs of continuing training. Re-training is carried out, as pointed out by the representative Sjøli, inter alia: in the case of congress trips abroad. Health enterprises have also previously financed the participation of doctors in events abroad, as part of the provision of continuing training. They will continue to do so in 2012. There is therefore no ‘congress ban’ for doctors. Of course, it's not just congress trips that ensure doctors' competence development. In our technological everyday life, virtual meeting places and IT-based training activities will increasingly be offered by continuing training. For example, there's a lot of interesting happening in this field of telemedicine. To date, health enterprises have not had sufficient knowledge of the expected needs and availability of medical specialists. However, regional health enterprises have developed overall analyses of the current situation and future needs of specialists. Based on this knowledge base, regions will put in place the necessary measures to obtain sufficient capacity and quality of service. Regional health businesses have also been given the task of addressing personnel needs by 2020. They shall establish a plan for the recruitment of appropriate skills and personnel in the years to come. I have great faith that this will be a good basis for health care businesses when planning and implementing the necessary training measures for doctors. It is a proper and important development that businesses should have even more control over the development of their skills among their staff. The decision taken by the pharmaceutical industry — on the basis of which the interpellant is based — requires enterprises to assess the best possible use of resources and resources for the development of competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1571	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As I said, my main concern was to get a clear answer and to confirm that it is the employer who is responsible for continuing training. As I understood the Council of State now, we are also going to take this responsibility further, now that a large part of the sponsorship revenue from the pharmaceutical industry falls away. I think it's good, and I'm happy and reassured that we agree on who has the primary responsibility. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that the employer should take responsibility for this. Now I don't think there's going to be any end to professional updates and development of competence even though the pharmaceutical industry is no longer going to sponsor international congresses and medical meetings. I believe that part of the development of competence can also take place in other ways, such as the Council of State so far. However, I have noticed that the president of the Norwegian Medical Association, Hege Güssing, believes it is important that Norwegian doctors participate in international congresses, because medicine is developing rapidly, and it is necessary to be present where knowledge is being developed and exchanged. In the large picture, the Norwegian trade union environment is small. In order to be able to participate in medical development, it is important to be present at the international meeting places. It is then important that the employer is also aware of this and makes use of the necessary resources to do so. According to Güssing, there is no development of competence in the Norwegian health system, and there are no competence plans for Norwegian hospitals. Some hospitals have their own plans, but they are not in the system. She believes that the professional update must be part of the quality parameters and that one must show that the focus is on continuing training. I can imagine what the Council of State thinks about this, what she will do to ensure that there are plans of competence developed at the hospitals, and that this is put into system, as the president of the Medical Association has been concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1582	Nor has it been the pharmaceutical industry that has so far been responsible for the further training of doctors or health professionals. I believe that the decision taken by the pharmaceutical industry has created a clean-up. Of course, Norwegian doctors and Norwegian health professionals should also be able to participate in the international arena. In general, I would like to say: with the health budgets we have had, I have not had the impression that Norwegian doctors have been absent in the international arena. So there's always someone who wants to be more present, and who needs it more. It is also clear from international research that Norwegian doctors can add sufficient knowledge to Norwegian hospitals and Norwegian research environments. I mentioned in my answer that we have asked regional health companies to investigate their personnel needs towards 2020. It means both the number of staff and, of course, the competence of individual hospitals. So I would say that there are almost no institutions in Norway that depend on their competence as hospitals. That there is a lot to say about the quality of healthcare. Being treated by health professionals with adequate and necessary skills is an increase in quality and prevents unnecessary mistreatment, at least having a much greater chance of preventing mistreatment. Of course, this is also very important to focus on the future. I just want to repeat that the hospitals and companies – the employer – are responsible for providing adequate training to their employees. Similarly, individual health professionals also have a responsibility. Both of these conditions are laid down in the law. I also mentioned in my first response the fund that the Medical Association has, which is also, of course, for doctors to be able to provide continuing training and receive grants for it. There are many sources for Norwegian doctors and Norwegian health professionals to maintain their skills in the future. That's very important, and of course we're putting a lot of emphasis on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1595	Continuing training is important for each employee. It is important for enterprises, for institutions and organisations. Motivated workers seeking new professional knowledge are important throughout their working life. The aim is to provide as many employees as possible with a wide range of professional updates on what is happening in the individual disciplines and to contribute to better quality and patient safety in the healthcare system. This applies both to specialist health services and to primary health services. Like the Council of State, I am pleased that the pharmaceutical industry has decided that they will no longer or can sponsor congress trips for doctors and other health professionals from 2012. I think that is an important decision that creates great credibility, not least in relation to the seller and the buyer. It is important in view of the fact that a person is not suspected of mixing roles and interests in his/her work, but that continuing training is to be professionally justified and non-interested. Like the representative, Sjøli, I have read the Medisin of the Day. 14 for 2011. We see there that many medical science spends considerable money on such travels and stays, and that many do not want to state what they are using. Why they don't want it, don't say anything about it. It is also worth noting what Unni Hjelmaas, Managing Director of Roche Norge AS, says: ‘One of the consequences is that we are given the opportunity to further focus on clinical trials, several meetings in Norway and our online initiative.’ So it also has some positive aspects with regard to Norwegian domestic market investment. Unni Hjelmaas is also the chairman of the Medical Products Industry Association. Professional independence between those who sell and market products and services, and those who have the task of making objective decisions based on professional and economic criteria, is essential in order not to create conflicts of interest in society – whether in the private or public sector. At the same time, like the proposer and the Council of State, I am concerned that it is important that health professionals get good professional updates. The conversion allows you to view this as other possibilities, and with different eyes than before. We have a big message that the Council of State has already mentioned, on, among other things. quality and patient safety, where this, with competence, will also be an important area to shed light on in future health services. The Medical Director of Health South-East hopes that the pharmaceutical industry will use the saved costs of reducing prices of expensive medicines, especially for cancer patients, who will benefit seriously from disease. The same director, Alice Beathe Andersgaard, also believes in the same article that congress travels have double cost: ‘The cost of the journey itself, and the loss of labour and temporary workers’ needs while away, make this at a double cost.’ I think this is a cost that the employer has not had much control of at present. Now the employer will have better control over the types of congresses to which health professionals are to attend, whether it is in view of the professional needs of the individual department, hospital or institution, in order to optimise the treatment of their patients. However, there must be no doubt – as the Council of State and the interpellant say – that there must be the responsibility of the employer, this by acting in such a way that we have motivated employees who are looking for new knowledge, and that they can be updated, both nationally and internationally. But this is also a personal responsibility. It is also the subject of negotiations through collective bargaining agreements with the Medical Association, with the Nursing Association, etc., which type of continuing training programme should be introduced in order to ensure a good professional update. Regional health enterprises and individual health enterprises are also today clearly responsible for this, both for the investment of new buildings, for the investment of equipment and, in particular, for the operation of institutions and businesses. As the Council of State said, there is a very large educational fund also in the Medical Association, where you can apply for a good professional update. Safe health services and good quality are very important, and this is also pointed to by the Council of State in its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1630	First of all, let me thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic that is often not considered sexy enough for Norwegian media, unless you travel to conferences with umbrella drinks – but the more important a topic to address in this room, if training and having the best-educated and best-educated doctors in this country would suffer from some decisions taken. The Progress Party has the starting point – and probably most people in this room – for a good employer to always take care of, and have a separate responsibility to ensure that their employees are the best people to develop the business they are doing. In order to have the best, you have to have the best educated and not least the best re-trained. It is also the case that, of course, the public sector, which has a responsibility to educate everyone in this country, also has a great responsibility. When it is the case that some of the training has been paid by others in the past, and it fails, there should be a lack of responsibility for this on the part of the employer and the public, which in this case are also the employers. Just the public was a driver for this decision to come, and that is very good. There was a lot of attention around it that someone thought could be perceived as unlucky ties to the industry or companies, and I think we all deserve that the decision made by the industry that it should no longer be sponsored is very good. It's also true in this industry, perhaps more than in many other industries, that much of the medical development, being on top, having the best doctors, the best nurses, not just going on the subject, but the medicine is being developed by the industry in the form of medical development, in the form of the equipment being developed, and which is constantly renewing. It will always be part of an important follow-up training for our clinicians. It must then be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I don't think we ever get there that the industry, whether it's medicine or equipment, won't be a contributor to these conferences, which you necessarily have to go to to to get up to date professionally, precisely because much of the development takes place in them. It is very easy to solve it elsewhere by assessing the professional content; it is important both for the doctor and for the employer — the health company in this case — to pay travel and stay, and thus have no commitment to those who have to present any innovation, whether it be product or medical development, at the conference. Of course, when the authorities have not least been on the side that they have wanted these bonds to disappear, it is also up to the authorities to ensure that they take their share of the additional costs previously borne by others. That means, as the interpellant is concerned about, a concern that I share, that if this is not to be at the expense of patients or at the expense of actually getting worse after-school doctors, funds must be set aside, and we must have clear and clear management in health care companies for this to be a priority. I also think it is worrying, as the representative Sjøli was in, that some in health companies seem to perceive it as being that they are no longer going to conferences. I think that will also be quite unfortunate for the development of medicine in this country. However, we must have employers, and in and of course also workers in the form of medical associations, nurses' associations, etc., who have funds and a responsibility for their members to retrain themselves, so that they also take that responsibility and are conscious of their responsibilities. Not surprisingly, both the signatory and the Progress Party believe that more funding must then be allocated to regional health businesses, precisely in order for us to have room for this. But I also think it is important that the Council of State in its mission document is clear that this should be a clear priority, that it is very clear that in order for us to be on top of the best doctors, this must be a clear priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1647	First of all, I don't think there is anyone who disagrees with or criticises the decision of the pharmaceutical industry's associations here on behalf of their members. There are proper and important steps towards a more orderly relationship between industry and public and private health professionals. This is also reflected in a series of measures undertaken by the pharmaceutical industry in Norway, precisely to clean up the bad conditions and bonds, for which they deserve praise. The President deserves to be commended for the efforts he made when he was Minister of Health, to start an important work just to clean up in these circumstances. It also allows the pharmaceutical industry to interfere with the debate on health policy and to highlight the importance of medicinal products to help people who are ill. Very often, because of some unfortunate ties, industry has been assigned to purposes that they do not have, and has not had the necessary voice in a debate on health policy. However, the ban on congresses, as the interpellant argues, presents challenges because participation makes a significant contribution to the ability of doctors to be professionally up-to-date. That contribution should be replaced by public funds through the employer, which is mainly health enterprises. It is a challenge, because it will be quite difficult to know if the employer actually fills the gap that arises. As the McKinsey report produced by the Medical Association and the Nursing Association on the investment situation in the Norwegian health care system shows, there is no overview of resource use related to the development of competences in neither level nor priority areas in health businesses. No one today knows how much health businesses spend on this type of work, and therefore no one will know in the future whether health businesses have filled the gap that is now emerging. It's not the worst thing if we don't know that someone has filled that hole. The worst thing is that this tells a lot about not being sufficiently aware that our hospitals are highly competent, where the main input factor is actually competent health professionals. Apart from universities and higher education and the research sector, there is no other activity with such a high proportion of highly educated people employed. I don't think anyone will find any other activity that is so dependent on the competence of employees and on development and research, and which has such a small overview of their own strategy and resource use related to how much of the money a user spends on further development and research in their own business – which is so dependent on these very circumstances. What this debate also shows is that there is a need for a much greater awareness of the human resources policy of health enterprises in the extreme sense of the need to have a strategy for developing skills in their own activities and not least for the development of individual employees. All other activities that are so knowledge-intensive would have individual competence plans for their employees. There is also reason to stress that it is also important that this is not highlighted as a justification for not having close cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry from the health sector. That's what's needed. To develop new medicines, one in Norway needs to cooperate with public health services both on the research and development side, precisely because this is where we have our business. In order for Norway to play a role in the development of new medicinal products, it is necessary to have public-private cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1660	Just a short post from my side. In relation to the previous interpellation, I was a little bit more in a hurry when I saw this interpellation, because you could immediately get the impression that the interpellant perceived it as a problem that the pharmaceutical industry has now stopped paying for these congress trips to the doctors. I heard the post from the representative Bent Höie, who stressed that this was not how it was to be perceived, but there may still be reason to dwell on what practice has been, i.e. that this industry has used a significant part of its marketing budget – in the order of 50 million. kr, I have seen in some documents – annual on paying for doctors' participation in congresses around the world. We have gradually received ethical guidelines for public sector employees, and there should be no doubt that that practice has clearly been contrary to the ethical guidelines. The pharmaceutical industry is a large supplier of goods for public health and doctors are a major supplier of pre-dispositions for which goods are to be ordered and purchased. So it's clear that this mix has been unfortunate, and it's very good that it's settled. One might wonder why it had to go so long that the industry itself took this position. Why has the State itself not stopped this earlier? There may be a rational explanation for that, but it's a proposition. Then, of course, the state and health firms have a responsibility for improving their skills and training for their employees — for doctors, for nurses, for ergot therapists, for physiotherapists, for all employees. It is a very important and significant responsibility. And of course, it's very important to follow up on further education and training. So that responsibility obviously has to be followed up by health companies. However, when it is the employer who is to finance this, it is clear that employers also have the right and the duty to give priority to the type of continuing training to be financed, in cooperation with employees’ organisations. Responsibilities shall be assumed for health companies and government councils to follow up on their order documents. But it's a responsibility they've had all along, which is not particularly problematic in that industry has stopped paying for these congresses. They've had it all along, and they're going to keep having it. I would also like to point out, as the representative of Asphjell was in it, to what the Council of State said, that, through the annual tariff negotiations, the State also allocates funds to the Educational Fund of the Medical Association. So through tariff negotiations, there is also earmarked money for the training of doctors. The practice that is now in place is quite correct, and I feel sure that health care companies also take the responsibility they have to ensure that employees receive the necessary continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1673	The pharmaceutical industry has established an internal legislation for its members which prohibits the sponsorship of congress trips and further training for liga. The centre party believes that it is good that Health-Noreg now has to take full responsibility for the Norwegian league's professional updates. The introduction of the sponsorship ban is quite right, and I want to give the pharmaceutical industry credit for the decision. Then I record that many major players in the media pharmaceutical industry are not aware of how much money they have really spent on this last year. But about 50 million. kr is a total number that is mentioned. This is an account and a responsibility that the public now has to take over. We have to do that with joy, even if it gives us some challenges. I mean it's to think that it wasn't the public or the professional community itself that went into the break of this change. It should have been. Because it's an employer's responsibility to provide professional updates. It is a public responsibility to ensure that continuing education and training are provided to the public health community. The employer must have a competence development plan. This cannot be left to random industrial operators. It has been an unfortunate culture in the Norwegian health service, where medical consultants and other consultants and salesmen have trodden up in hospital wards and educational institutions and left goods and equipment and have spoken with individuals. There's nothing called a free lunch. We need perfectly clear guidelines, and we need to get away from unlucky ties to the industry. We have to trust that the assessments we make as health professionals are real. That the pharmaceutical company has paid for further training and travel abroad, we must all be happy that it is now going to end. In the debate, the pharmaceutical industry's decision has been referred to as the congress ban. It's misleading. It is a decision that says something about funding, and is not a prohibition. If leges travel at Congress, the public should pay, not private actors, as it is partly now. I note that a comprehensive policy environment does not go against the decision but supports the current conversion. It's positive. The debate is about the economic challenges this creates for health professionals. It's an important discussion. We also need a discussion in the run-up to further training. The question we have to ask is whether congresses should be given equal priority or whether there are other training measures that will be equally useful. How new knowledge can be disseminated within the organisation and lead to learning is also an important theme. Sickhouses are complex knowledge organisations. Therefore, the focus on continuous knowledge development is important. It's a responsibility for the rental to make sure of this. The FVO, which was involved in the introduction of the plurality of this room, has placed the responsibility for the necessary training, continuing training and training for health professionals. Prioritisation must be expected to take place within the framework provided by the Storting, as proposed by the Enterprise Act and by the Care-For-Responsibilities. I register and understand that the professional community is concerned that further education will not be given high priority, and I record that they claim that this is not enough in the system. Since the Congress Decision will lead to a new situation, I will call on the Council of State and the Ministry for the next few years to pay extra attention to how businesses follow up this area, and to ensure that hospital managers assume their responsibilities for training, continuing and continuing training. Although this could be challenging, the option is not to continue as before where the pharmaceutical industry subsidized this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1697	I would like to thank you for the debate. I believe that there is broad consensus and, in fact, broad support for the decision of the pharmaceutical industry to create neat relations between industry and doctors and the health care system. It is a cross-thinking that it is the pharmaceutical industry that has raised this issue and that has set limits itself, and that it has actually not been the employer and the health service that have done this at a long earlier time. This is a significant sum of money — it has been mentioned between 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr. We in the Right are very pleased with the decision they have taken. I'm a little surprised by the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen. He must have heard extraordinarily poorly after my post when he realized that I believe the problem is that the pharmaceutical industry should no longer sponsor these congresses. No, on the contrary! I'm very glad it's no longer going to. What was my concern was the consequences that central professionals in, among other things. Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital have moved forward. They believe that the consequences of this decision are that there will be fewer hospital staff. It will mean abductions, it will be less patient treatment, and it will lead to longer waiting lists. The section supervisor Risøe has stated that there were uncertainties in the law. That's what we were about to address this matter, to clarify it. I believe that we have received that today. We have been confirmed by the Minister of Health that it is the employer who has the primary responsibility for continuing training, the development of competences and the updating of doctors and other health professionals in the public health sector, and that she will ensure that the employer takes this responsibility and that this continuing training is prioritised, so that in the future we will have the security of good patient treatment, good quality, and that the waiting lists will not increase and that the downtime will not happen, as some have feared.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1710	It has been expressed by many that they are pleased with the decision taken by the pharmaceutical industry. So am I. I also want to repeat that this code from 2006 was actually tightened up, where driving rules were created for cooperation with industry. Then to Per Arne Olsen. Of course, it is important to cooperate with industry in the future. We are dependent on a pharmaceutical industry that develops new drugs, and we are quite privileged in this country, which means that we can use them to a large extent, well notice when they are tested and assessed as safe and effective. Then I have to say that it could almost sound like that now it became a bit critical of the follow-up training for the doctors when this falls away. According to my information, it is approx. 50 million. kr used by the pharmaceutical industry, and they are open to the fact that this has gone from their marketing budgets. The most important thing for hospitals is to have the right expertise in treating people. That is why it is crucial to give their employees the right skills. I can only repeat: it is the responsibility of the employer. It's also been in the past. Despite the activity of the pharmaceutical industry, it has been the responsibility of the employer. However, it is also the responsibility of individual workers to ensure that one is up-to-date. Once again, I would like to stress that we spend over 100 billion dollars. SEK for specialist health services in hospitals, each year. Norway uses twice the average in EU countries. It is clear that within these budgets it is a good economy and absolutely necessary to ensure that employees have the appropriate and proper competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1723	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1728	Before going to the vote, the President will inform the President that the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has received an application for leave from 8 November to 11 November in order to take part, on behalf of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, in meetings in connection with the Duma elections in Moscow. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara Representative of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e1743	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 is already a votert. In Case No. No voting theme is available. No. No. of vote. 3 The Committee had set up: The State budget for 2011 is amended as follows: I Expenditure20Ministry of State Office1Operating expenditure, increased by 11 000 000 from NOK 83 900 000 to NOK 94 900 000 [[New]] II On-demand authorisation The majority agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will be able to order goods and services of up to 10 million in 2011. kronor in excess of the allocated allocation under cap. 900, item 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e2887	In Case No: 4–7 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-27.ana.ud11e2980	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
