ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e68	A number of permit applications are available: from 28 November to 1 December to take part in the mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Moldova by the representative of Mr Lise Christoffersen from 28 November to 30 November to take part in the session of the United Nations under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union in New York and on leave from 1 December to 5 December to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe during the election of the National Assembly of the Socialist Left-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative No Marte Thorkildsen from 28 November to 5 December and until further notice from the Group of the Parties on the welfare permit of the representative of Mr Geir Pollestad from 28 November to 2 December and until further from the Workers' Group on the care permit for the representative Dag Ole Tuegen from 28 November to 2 December Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County, Arne Bergsvåg, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative of Geir Pollestad. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Kjell Børre HansenFor the Province of Hordaland: Toril VebenstadFor the Province of Rogaland: Terje Halleland and Magnhild EiaFor the Province of Vestfold: Lars Aegean – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e139	Toril Vebenstad, Terje Halleland and Lars Egeland are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e147	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e161	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e170	It is very important to have many and qualitatively good kindergartens for all young people. The Committee points out that there will be a large-scale communication in the kindergarten area in autumn 2012. This will be a message about the kindergartens of the future, a message where it is important to identify good strategies and measures that enable kindergartens to offer a rich, stimulating and challenging learning environment to all young people. It is important that all kindergartens should be for everyone, regardless of their ability to pay. Municipalities are currently required to have maternity facilities that can offer a reduction or exemption from parental pay, and it is up to each municipality to find good solutions to meet this obligation. Preschool teachers are important for kindergartens; they are important for the quality of kindergartens and young people. It's important to keep the ones that are already there, while at the same time you're forced to recruit new ones. I am pleased that the government has a major focus on this area and is working on a large-scale recruitment campaign, which will be launched early in the spring of 2012. It is important that we get more people to search for pre-school teacher training, and increase the status of the profession and of kindergarten as a workplace. When it comes to the proposal for a more flexible babysitting system, the Government Party believes that this proposal could be about billions of dollars, and that it is therefore natural that this should be dealt with in the context of the budget. Research efforts in the kindergarten field are being stepped up, and a joint committee is satisfied with this. In addition, I am pleased that the objective of strengthening research in and on kindergarten is being followed up in the government’s budget proposal for 2012. It is a joint committee that is busy with early efforts and indicates that provision is now being made for childcare facilities to offer all children language screening at the age of three, and that health centres are monitoring the languages of children during the four-year control period. What is a little special is that when Stortinget dealt with the quality of the nursery in March last year, the Right Party and the Advance Party – together with the Christian People's Party – believed that compulsory language testing at best was wasted resources. The three parties present the following proposal at the time: ‘The government is not asking for all kindergartens to offer language mapping at the age of three.’ We would not at that time and do not now want it to be mandatory for all children, but that it should be mandatory for all kindergartens to offer language mapping at the age of three. Last March, our proposal was characterised by the right as a screening hysteria that ran home in China. Now the pipe has received a different sound, because today both the Right Party and the Progress Party propose to legislate mandatory language mapping for all children after the age of three, in kindergarten or in a health centre – although the representative Olemic Thommessen only said that language development was not dependent on mandatory screening, and that the Right's response was four-year control. Is it as it may seem, that the right side turns the cloak after the wind? I've been thinking a little bit about what's a Right-Wind, but my impression's got a little bit more attached now, that it's often the wind that controls the right-wing side, and not the other way around. During the processing of the Kinderhagen Quality Report, the representative, Horne, from the Progress Party, says that starting with mandatory testing of three-year-olds when it comes to language is not the right thing, and that the Progress Party strongly opposes the mandatory language testing of these young people. The party’s representative, Ib Thomsen, said that these surveys were reminiscent of what was happening in China and in former Eastern Europe, and concluded that it was a screening hysteria. Why does Thomsen think that the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right today is home? Language mapping is not the same as proficiency testing, such as: She's in school. We've been saying that for a long time. Language mapping in kindergarten is mostly carried out by observation or by dynamic use of screening tools, such as: TRAS. The purpose of language mapping shall be to ensure that kindergartens discover children who need specific language stimulation. The Labour Party believes – this year as last year – that kindergartens are a unique venue for discovering poor language development. I ask for clarification in the seminar that it might seem that the right-hand side brings with it by day when it comes to what they mean about language mapping. Nothing is better than that if both the Right Party and the Advance Party recognize that what they meant last March, they no longer stand for them and are some of us in that language mapping – at least as an offer – can be an important step towards strengthening early efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e205	I want to commend the proposers for promoting an important issue on the challenges we face today in kindergarten. The rapporteur explained that there will be a kindergarten announcement in the autumn of 2012, but for the opposition in the Stortinget, it is important that we have a debate on what content and challenges we have in the kindergarten today, without waiting until 2012. We have a great kindergarten in our country today. There are many children – as we can also see in the news today – who go to kindergarten and use it. I guess we have some of the most beautiful kindergartens in the world, and we also have an expanded offer, which gives the best to the families who want to use kindergartens. For the Progress Party, it is important that we have a diversity in kindergartens. If it hadn't been for the private kindergartens, we wouldn't have been there today. Therefore, it was gratifying that we had the kindergarten agreement, where the Progress Party and SV could stand together and equate public and private kindergartens. But the situation today is that the government, with SV at the head, has not fulfilled the agreement that was reached, to equalise public and private kindergartens. The framework conditions and non-discrimination – as it is so finely called – are not being met today, and we have seen that very many of the private kindergartens are struggling. It is so focused on the fact that there are a few kindergartens that are paying dividends, rather than focusing on the fact that there are very many small, good, private kindergartens that we had not managed without today, and that have had an unforeseeableness in the last year. Now they go into a year when they don't even know if they get the income they want. That is why the Progress Party in its budget – and that is what we are stressing all the time – now has to achieve full equal treatment for private and public kindergartens. Many people who use kindergarten today have a completely different approach to kindergarten than they had before. The parents are now – when they know that the children are very much in kindergarten – looking for quality. If we are to focus on the quality of kindergartens, we must of course start with the employees. There are a lot of people who are not skilled, but who have good care skills, and who can give the kids the adult contact they need. But we need to focus on getting more pre-school teachers and getting more applications. It's a pleasure that there's a big deal coming together on that challenge. We need to improve the skills of the employees. When we know that the skills of some kindergartens may only amount to NOK 230 for each individual, there's not much one that can get out of competence. It's important that it's well-being, and it's good that we have a diversity in kindergarten. It's also about flexibility. The government boasts that there is full kindergarten coverage today. But it's not full babysitting today. If you're so lucky to be born before 1 September, you're right in kindergarten. But if you're born later, all of us sitting in this room know that you're not right in kindergarten. When the question of government parties is what this costs, we're only told that there's almost no one who knows, it's a billion. But it is disappointing that neither the government parties nor the government can get a numerical attachment to what this will cost, so that the Storting can get a case on the table about what it will cost to get full child care coverage. We hear here the case rapporteur explain about language mapping and where the wind blows and does not blow. It's not that hard to clarify that topic. What the government put forward as its proposal in the matter we were dealing with was that language screening should take place in kindergartens. For the Progress Party, it is important to clarify that not all kids go to kindergarten. Some parents choose to have their kids at home, and the kids don't get this language mapping. For the Progress Party, it is important that it is a language mapping, whether in kindergarten or in the health centre. If one reads the proposal of the Right Party and the Advance Party, one clearly sees that it must be a language mapping, but that it must be up to the municipalities whether they want it at health centres, or whether they want it in kindergartens. There is today a debate that there are very many children who are in kindergarten for a very long time. It has to be up to parents themselves to assess how long they want the kids in kindergarten. What the Progress Party is concerned about is that there is flexibility. With the government's proposal regarding cash support, we believe that a person weakens the family's freedom of choice, because more people have to choose kindergarten instead of cash support and being at home longer with their kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e222	Kindergarten is an important part of the growing-up of many children in Norway. The kindergarten of the future must preserve and further develop the best of our kindergarten tradition, where children are allowed to be children, and where children are stimulated to their own development. I have previously given praise to the Council of State for Norway's extensive kindergarten development. About 97 pst. all children have gone to kindergarten before they begin school. The right concern is that work on the content of kindergarten and quality has now completely stopped in the process of achieving full childcare coverage. The increase in the number of early school teachers in dispensation and new research showing that children show signs of dissatisfaction and are at risk of distortion is some of the signs that we cannot be satisfied with the state of things. Nevertheless, we know that most parents are very satisfied with the nursery service, and that many children have fine day-care facilities. But it's a big responsibility for us politicians; to ensure that the quality of the kids gets good, and that the kindergartens in the future not only become the custody of children, but give the kids good and rich day-care. The right starting point is that all children are different, and there is no phase in the quality and development of kindergarten. Today’s diversity of kindergartens and nursery services shows this in practice. The right is committed to preserving diversity in the kindergarten sector in the future by ensuring good development and a predictable framework for both private and public kindergartens. Concerned about the many uncertainties in the rules on equivalent treatment, the right will now need to ensure a level playing field for kindergartens. We also receive feedback every day from a very large number of municipalities in the country, who are very concerned that it is very difficult to decide and follow up all the changes that the government is now making in the kindergarten sector, after they have transferred the kindergartens to the municipalities. The kindergartens enable the combination of work and family life. Today, it's almost full child-care coverage, according to the government's definition. But in the worst case, the child is almost two years before there is guaranteed kindergarten space, as it is today. That is why I am pleased that the Right together with the other opposition parties have called for more flexible babysitting. We all want better quality in kindergartens, but the quality concept is far Fascinating. For the Right, good quality in kindergarten is the characteristic of safe children who are stimulated to their own development. Kindergarten shall stimulate the natural development and curiosity of children in the fields of language, motor skills and social skills. Good quality in kindergarten depends on those who work in kindergarten and their total competence to provide children with a good and safe framework for their development. The kindergarten shall contribute to giving children a good childhood in cooperation with the families. That's the right starting point. There are many ways to work with quality in kindergarten, but the most important thing is for those who work in kindergarten. Therefore, both in this proposal and in its alternative state budget, the Right has proposed measures and money that will enhance the quality of employees and kindergartens. It is a great pity that the government does no more in terms of continuing education and training, and ensures that the quality is improved in kindergarten. But we in the Right are following up our proposal from last year with a massive effort on the continuing training of those who work in kindergarten, like the model of competence for quality, which the Council of State boasts, for the school. In the Right's Alternative State Budget, we're going to allocate 100 million. kr more to strengthen quality work in kindergarten. With regard to the rapporteur's comments on language mapping, I need clarification. The representative Vågslid is quite right that there is currently a Right-Wind blowing over the country. I am pleased that the representative has come along. But it is a pity that the representative has not received the debate on language mapping and what the Right has said. That's why I have to solve it. When the government presented its proposal for pediatric monitoring, the Right wanted monitoring to apply to all children, not only to those in kindergarten. Governments and government parties must also take over the fact that there are some children who do not go to kindergarten. It is also important — not least — to ensure that they are caught, so that when they start school they have the opportunity to speak Norwegian and the opportunity to be caught and given help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e243	The President assumes that the representative of Hofstad Helleland intends to address the minority proposals on which the right is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e246	That's right, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e251	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e254	It was a long setting and a long proposal to read for a exchange on the morning quiz, but it was interesting. A teacher a lot of sitting on the Stortinget. One of the main messages in the proposal for a representative and in the setting is that we have now worked our way forward and almost reached targets quantitatively, and then there is something left on the quality page. We all agree on that, and that's one of the reasons why we're going to get a message in this area. So it's very nice that one of the big discussions here is the time of recording, which shows that we're not quite in terms of quantity. The fact that we now in Stortinget have a discussion about and a criticism of the government that kids don't get into kindergarten in time is great. We didn't have that 10–15–20 years ago, when kindergarten was more viewed as a danger and an evil. Now it's a good one that should be able to participate as quickly as possible. It's nice to read today's business today, where there's a chronicle about this, where it says: «Children with children receive better education and pay, shows our studies of children born in the 1970s. Kindergartens have contributed to an important element of the Norwegian success model: income equality.’ This is a musical text in the ears of a socialist. When it comes to completing the quantity page, it's interesting to go a little bit closer to how you're going to finance this. I think that's absolutely right, the majority of parties here point out – that this should be an absolute get-together. But this costs money, and it's part of the budget struggle further on. In what's written from the opposition here, it might look like you want to solve this with a maximum price, i.e. you can imagine that some of this is funded by an increased parental payment. One can read here a typical Right Attack on the Universal Welfare State. If this is between the lines here, I think it's scary thoughts that are presented from the opposition's side. This by holding on, further developing and processing the universal welfare state also in this area is very important for us red-green parties. So some comments as well. Firstly, it is very well mentioned by the rapporteur that this should be a wise and flexible instrument implemented by professionals, and that it should help the kindergarten to function even better than it does today. As you can see, there is an instrument in the quality debate. Secondly, I think it was interesting for someone who was at the KS conference in Akershus on Thursday and was told that I represented a disaster when it was not about transferring power to the municipalities, that we are now getting criticism that we have transferred this area to our municipalities. This is the way it is in school and other areas: if there is something that doesn't work and needs to be developed further, I really believe that the Department and KS – Municipality-Norway – are able to figure it out and improve the situation, rather than that one should hold back and still have the area under the state. It's interesting that there are right parties that criticize us for that. So a little bit about this with the kindergarten portal. For me, it's an example of a naive belief that a simple data can tell about the quality of a kindergarten. I'm more skeptical about getting in the same situation as in hospital choices – that you should have free babysitting, that you should be able to shop, find out about the kindergarten that suits you best at the right time, and, next time, if you're dissatisfied, look up on the Internet and find out that – no, there's certainly a kindergarten that seems to have a little better score, so I move my kid there. No, I think the kindergarten should have an ideal part of what we have in the school – the secondary school. We're going to have a nursery. We're going to make a good kindergarten by means of close and good cooperation between the parents, the kids and the employees of the kindergarten. That's what gives good kindergarten, not that you act like you're buying and selling on a market we're talking about here. So a little bit about recruiting. It's very nice that it gets focused on it. For me, this is another example of what we're going to put more and more emphasis on in the future, namely the qualification of adults – that we're giving an offer to people where they work, and where they live, just to get their skills up. Not least in kindergarten, many people are eager to do an even better job, and part of doing an even better job is getting their formal skills in place. In this way, it is a good and important measure that not only new students, but also, and not least, look at those who are already at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e281	I think it is necessary to reflect a little on the proposals in this matter, and not least on the background to the proposals. The kindergarten sector has become a very important part of the lives of most young people, and the expansion of kindergartens has been of great importance to many families with young children. But it hasn't always been like that, because this is a sector where there's been an incredible amount in recent years. Something has happened to the majority of the red-green government in the Stortinget, and something has happened to a much broader majority in the Storinget. I can mention, among other things: work on non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens, a high-quality report in kindergarten, statutory entitlement to kindergarten and not least that financial responsibility has been transferred to municipalities. I guess it's a little bit in the opposition's spirit to be more impatient than the government parties, anyway. At the same time, however, major reforms take time. It looks like some parties won't recognize it. We have another example of major reforms in our area that have been carried out in the past: we have child protection, where the reform is not very old, but where we already have almost a total population that thinks this is not good enough, and that it needs to change considerably. But unlike in the field of child protection, the changes that have been made in the kindergarten area have been successful, and there is a broad consensus to move forward with the objectives we have set ourselves, on non-discrimination, the right to kindergarten and not least to focus on the content of kindergarten. At the same time, we must recognize that it will take time. Municipalities need time to adapt to their responsibilities. The number base for the number of people who are asking for space in the kindergarten will gradually improve, and then it will be easier for municipalities to adapt their services accordingly. Sometimes the opposition may seem critical just to be critical. Reading the proposal promoted by representatives from the Right does not seem to take into account everything that has already happened, and everything that is happening in the sector – things are either too fast or too slow. The opposition has a critical look at the government, but there may also be some reason to look at what the opposition is doing. This could be done, for example, by: look as if the batches have turned to the issue of language mapping, where, in the treatment of the quality report in kindergarten, it was very critical to the scheme, which is now considered to be very important. Then I hear representatives from the Right and Advance Party say that you are critical because you believe that not all kids go to kindergarten. That's absolutely correct. It also said the government parties in their comments at that time. But if you read the comments, it's not the language mapping opposition parties argue against, you argue specifically against the introduction into kindergartens. Otherwise, the government is working well with many of the questions raised in the proposal. These include: warned that there will be a big message in the kindergarten area in the autumn of 2012, which will address very many of the issues that today’s proposal points to. For the Centre Party, it is important to focus a lot on the fact that the kindergarten should also be involved in safe play and care. That's why it's a little special claim that the work on the contents of the nursery has stopped. It is already announced that there will be a big message, and we dealt with last year's quality report. So there's a lot going on in this area all the time. It is important that kindergarten should be a possible good both for families with good income and for families with poor income. Therefore, it is positive to see that the maximum price has led to a reduction in the parental allowance for low-income families as well. Then we also see that the municipalities are required to have some spaces or spaces adapted to families with lower paying ability. Employees in kindergartens have a lot to say about the quality of kindergartens. Therefore, it will be an important focus area to ensure that we have enough competence among those working in kindergarten. Then we must both retain and not least recruit new pre-school teachers. It is good that we are now working on a major recruitment campaign, which will be very important both for more people to apply for pre-school teacher training, and for increasing the status of this profession. There's still a part that can get better than it is today, and there's no doubt that we still have a way to go. My post is not an attempt to produce everything so much better than it is, but there is reason to remember everything that has been done, and everything that is to be done. I find it difficult to see that so far there have been suggestions from the opposition with good objections that we should change course, or that we should do something other than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e303	Kindergartens are an important part of very many children's everyday lives and growing up. It requires a great deal of focus on quality, content and attention from us politicians. When you have listened to this debate so far, you get the impression that all these proposals are either wrong or unnecessary, or that you are critical just to be critical. Or it is that all the proposals are good and should be adopted, because this will be good. Then I would recommend the Christian People's Party policy in the setting where we have supported the proposals that are good, and would not support those that are not so good. Kindergarten quality requires efforts, attention and increased focus on several important issues. From 2011, funding for the kindergarten sector was transferred to municipalities. It is right, as the representative Ramsøy said, that major reforms take time. It may also be necessary to recognise that precisely implementing these developments in the kindergarten sector, at the same time transferring the sector to the local economy – in practice, while the enormous expansion that took place – was the wrong timing. The nursery sector is part of the municipal framework, but not until the major reform is in place and we have a mature sector in which municipalities can take over and further develop the quality. Today we have a situation in the municipalities with great uncertainty about the financing of kindergartens, especially for the private ones. It affects the quality of kindergartens every day. That's the reality we're experiencing right now. Christian People's Party therefore supports proposal No. 1 which has been promoted, to go through the regulation on equivalent treatment. In its alternative state budget, the Christian People's Party has also proposed increased funds for stepping up non-discrimination between private kindergartens. Furthermore, we lack thousands of pre-school teachers, which means that kindergartens around the country do not have the skills they should have. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for a recruitment strategy for pre-school teachers who are now working outside the sector. Furthermore, in order to strengthen quality, we need more research, better framework, funding and competences. We need not least also to give the competent employees we have in kindergarten today, trust in developing this quality in meeting the children and in meeting the parents in their everyday lives. What many people have been dealing with here today is that we have in principle approximated full child care coverage based on the definition chosen by the government. I'm surprised that you have so much satisfaction with babysitting as long as the situation is as it actually is, for all those who fall outside this definition. I call for more impatience and clear ambitions from the government parties in this area. In addition, when you remove the cash support from 1 August without having the plans ready to ensure that not least municipalities in press areas are able to expand the children's playgrounds needed to fill this need, it looks even more strange. Kindergarten works very well when parents have actually chosen it, because they think it's best. It gives the best relationship between parents, children and kindergarten. The Christian People's Party therefore sees a good childcare provision as one of the cornerstones of an freedom of choice policy, where one can choose between kindergarten and other care solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e318	It's amazing what we've got in terms of kindergarten development in Norway, and it's noticed internationally. From 2003, when the kindergarten agreement was concluded in Stortinget, until now the state allocations to the kindergarten sector have tripled from around 200 000. 10 to approx. 30 B.C.E. kr. There are 72,000 more children in kindergarten, and there are many more employees in kindergarten. The price of a private nursery is reduced by approx. 50 pst. and a municipality with approx. 40 pst. We have managed to achieve this formidable promise in kindergarten without any deterioration in quality. I notice that someone in the debate is talking as if it has meant fewer pre-school teachers etc. That's wrong. We have managed to keep one third of the pedagogues in kindergarten through this large-scale development. What I think is crucial that we now do further is say: now we have achieved a formidable uplift in the kindergarten sector, which means that many – almost all children – have the opportunity to participate in a kindergarten before they begin school. It's a very good starting point to discuss further how we're now going to improve the quality and strengthen the kindergarten as the first start of lifelong learning, with the starting point we have in the Norwegian kindergarten tradition, that it's the game that's going to be the starting point. It is the natural way of young people to explore the world that is to be the starting point, and the competence is to have adults who see them, encourage them, and develop them further. It has been announced for a long time that the municipalities were to take over the responsibility and funding of the kindergartens. The Bondevik Government announced its wish to introduce it from the 2007 budget. We've been putting it off for years just because we were going to have a kindergarten sector that stood tough, and where the right to babysitting was ready. There are many of the proposals put forward by the proposers, which it is important and interesting to discuss further. Some are good ideas or promises. They must be cashed in or cashed out in the budgets. When e.g. someone in the opposition wants a continuous admission to kindergartens, it has a price tag. If it is not included in the draft budget for 2012, which it does not do for any parties, no one has actually proposed more than one admission per year. That recording has been added to the harvest, and it's because every harvest we have 60,000 vacant kindergartens when the first grade starts at school. This means that if you're going to have a continuous recording in addition to that, you have to have at all times some vacancies that are ready for someone who is one year old. It's a cost question, but it's not least a competence issue. And when we have, as we have quite rightly said in the discussion, 6,000 vacations, that we need 6,000 pre-school teachers based on today's regulations, it will be a big challenge how to keep the quality of kindergartens up through such an extension. I have as a clear objective that we should move forward in this area, but I believe it is essential that we now ensure, maintain and strengthen the quality we have in kindergartens. Now it is also to be added that half of the municipalities offer kindergartens during the day. The 195 municipalities that have waiting lists for children who have not met their rights have an average waiting time of six weeks, so fortunately this picture looks more optimistic than you can read from the rights. I believe it is crucial now that we continue to discuss both what is a good quality kindergarten – that's why the government intends to send a big message about this – that we recruit more pre-school teachers, get more people to start pre-school teacher training, make sure that more people have the opportunity to take professional letters while they are at work, and draw back pre-school teachers. It is the employees of the nursery who ultimately constitute the quality. When we have so much good research as to show the benefits for individuals and society of good quality childhood gardens, it only reinforces the arguments for this sector and its attention. This is an ‘explored’ area, and I am very pleased that we have increased efforts in research in the kindergarten sector. We're going to keep doing that because it's a very important part of the quality increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e338	The formidable promise made in kindergarten has not been made without contributions from private kindergartens. The formidable promise, as the Council of State said, has not gone beyond quality, shows that there are a lot of kindergartens today saying that it is going beyond quality because the funding went beyond the framework, and the private kindergartens have had a worse financial situation than they had, for example. last year. The Progress Party was probably the only party that was so clearly opposed to getting funding into the framework – we wanted to have it the way it was last year. My question to the Council of State will be based on this: Will the Council of State ensure that public daycare centres have to comply with normal accounting rules for all their expenses, so that the basis for calculating the subsidies to private daycare centres is real?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e347	It is true that there is a discussion in some municipalities between the private kindergartens and the municipality about what is the basis for calculating the grant to the private kindergartens. The Landsförbund der Privatliche Barnehager’s Landsförbund has brought up with us, is that they see that municipalities do not keep their accounts in relation to kindergartens as individuals, and that this may mean that other costs of kindergartens appear in other parts of the budgets. We are now in dialogue about this in order to get a good overview of it, so that the starting point for the grant to private kindergartens, which is what municipalities spend on their own kindergartens, is as correct as possible. We have a good dialogue with the Landsförbunder on this, and we have a good dialogue with the municipalities on this too, so that we can get an understanding of the regulations that are easy to deal with for the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e354	The right is concerned that all children should have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, including those with low income parents. That's why I find it hard to understand why the Council of State disagrees that we should spend 150 million. kr on income upgrading for those with the lowest income, as the Right does in its budget this autumn. Does the Council not believe that it is unfortunate that those with the lowest income have to pay as much as those with the highest income, and that some parents now have to pay much more than they did before?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e359	We have an overview showing what you pay for kindergarten, and the latest child care survey gave us up-to-date figures for this. It shows that all income groups — but now we are in the statistics, there may be some individuals in between — have been given a reduced price for kindergarten from 2002 to 2010. The same applies to those with the lowest income. So the reduction in the nursery price is something that we, at least on a general basis, may have benefited all groups. So it's not like the right hand handing out mild gifts to kindergarten parents. First you increase the nursery price for everyone, and then you want to distribute a small part of it to reductions in the price. Today, municipalities are required to facilitate the possibility for children who come from families with low incomes and poor advice to participate in a kindergarten. We see that to a very large extent also happens, because when we ask parents what is going on in order for them to choose a kindergarten if not... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e366	Speaking of the statistics, the Council of State shows that half of the municipalities now offer nursery facilities during the day. Now I'm pretty sure it's half of the smaller municipalities, and at least the largest municipalities are at the other end of the scale. The press areas have the greatest challenges. My question is again about this with the admission and fulfilment of the goal of kindergarten for everyone who wants it. It's okay that the Council of State challenges the opposition in terms of funding – it's an honest matter – but after hearing the statements of the Council of State, I just have to ask again: What is the ambition of the Council of State for the young people who are not currently entitled to kindergarten, don't get kindergarten, but where the families actually want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e373	I am pleased that the representative, Håbreek, stresses that none of the parties are proposing more than one admission this year, because it costs money, and no one has proposed adding money to the state budget for this. Then I fully agree that it is of course that I would like to have good quality kindergartens packed with competent employees and the excess of enthusiastic pre-school teachers ready at the moment when a 1-year-old is one year old, and not so that someone has to wait. The government's ambition, or wish, is that we should be able to introduce two recordings a year – it's in our government platform. But I'm going to be very honest and say that in the first round I've now been more concerned with ensuring that there is good quality in kindergartens, that we get more to research, that we have further training opportunities for pediatricians, that we have recruitment campaigns in preschool teachers, and that employees are given the opportunity to take professional letters, because it's crucial to maintain good quality in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e378	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e383	The government parties should be satisfied that they have an opposition that asks demands and questions, so we can all get better. The opposite is self-satisfaction, and that's not recommending. There have been major changes in the kindergarten sector in recent years. I know it very well myself, because it is 34–35 years since I was educated as a pre-school teacher and started working in that sector. I was also the rapporteur for a municipality that had full child-care coverage before the kindergarten agreement was concluded. I also know that some kindergartens are better than others. That's the way it was then, and that's the way it is now, because there's one thing that doesn't change, and it's that good kindergartens are characterized by skilled employees. Kindergarten never gets better than those who work there. Competitive and knowledgeable employees are the prerequisites for providing children with safe, good growth conditions and room for personal development. In particular, the quality of supervisors — at all stages — in kindergarten is important. The right is concerned that the recruitment of pedagogical staff in kindergartens is too slow. Figures from the Education Association show that the number of exemptions in kindergartens can approach 7,000 during 2012 — if there are no changes. We believe that work is going too slow. Therefore, the Right calls for more initiatives and more measures to strengthen recruitment and empowerment in kindergartens. These are known issues, and it's been for years. Why has it taken the Council of State so long to get on the track? The right will strengthen the continuing training of those working in kindergartens, and it is important that all employees are allowed to take part in the upgrading of their skills, so that the unskilled assistants working there can also increase their competence. In addition, we are concerned about the deficiencies in pre-school teacher education that NOCUT has pointed out – Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011. A preschool teacher is a director of the children and the employees for whom they are responsible. The right considers that the management focus of pre-school teacher training should be strengthened, and we are at least quite pleased that the Council of State will take this input into the further work on future pre-school teacher training. With regard to the proposal on income upgrading, the Council of State states that all income groups have been reduced after 2002. No, they don't, Councillor. This was not the case in the municipality of Oppegård when I was the rapporteur there and the minimum price was introduced. We had many more steps on the income classification path than what was the result afterwards. Many of the families in the lower income groups were therefore raised and paid higher amounts of childcare. It's a problem, and I can't understand why the government parties can't support the Right in terms of the 150 million. kr, which we have entered in our alternative budget, as a hand bill for those with the lowest income, and who now pay a higher kindergarten price than they did in many municipalities before. The right believes that language mapping is important, but it also needs to reach all children both inside and outside kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e399	Like the representative Aksel Hagen, I'm very inspired to listen to this debate, and I think it's an interesting development of the babysitting debate both in this room and outside. It's been no more than a year or two since both in committee comments and in this room said that kindergarten expansion has been a major social experiment, while today we hear only a tribute of the kindergarten from the opposition, and we are delighted for that. We have also been told in the past that kindergarten is a construction created by socialists, while everyone knows that it has been a massive wish of babysitting mothers since the 1970s to put in place kindergarten development. We were finally able to target in 2009. Today it is that over 90 pst. of all children are in kindergarten, and in recent years we have had a massive focus on getting full kindergarten coverage. More than 70000 new places have been created, at the expense of the proportion of pre-school teachers in kindergarten. We have had a strong escalation in the number of pre-school places of study. There are over 1,000 more students today than there were just a few years ago. A large project has also been launched to train unskilled workers in kindergartens. So we have succeeded in maintaining a good quality while at the same time having a strong and massive expansion of the kindergartens. But I fully agree with the representative Graham that there are great differences in the quality of kindergartens, and that is what we have to work with in the years to come. The opposition criticises us for the speed of kindergarten expansion, and they criticise us for the speed of law enforcement. Then I have to replicate back, if it's gone too fast: to which parents would you go out and say sorry, it's gone too fast, you shouldn't have had room for your children in kindergarten, because we think we should have given priority to quality instead of expanding the last places? I would like to see the opposition go out and say this to the parents it believes should not have room. In addition, I think what the opposition comes up with is quite contradictory. First, it criticises the government for building up too quickly, while at the same time it believes that you should have a continuous admission into the kindergarten. Yes, that actually means that you had to expand even faster, get even more space, and you had to have an overcapacity in kindergartens. In the end, what's going on in language mapping. All of us who were present in this Chamber well and well a year ago and heard the debate then know that then the opposition, the Right and the Advance Party, was against a language mapping. They even promoted a proposal where they said they opposed it. A bit of the background was that there were some professional environments that were actually against language mapping. But we're really glad that these two games are coming after, and it's pretty interesting that they're now criticizing us for not moving fast enough in terms of language mapping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e412	I really did not intend to ask for the floor in this matter, because the rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of both the Committee's comments and the government's policy in this area. But it is nice to follow these debates – it has also been today – because the right side has a significant problem in this area. When we've heard the rhetoric of the right side in the last few years, you've almost got the impression that sending the kids to the kindergarten is one of the most dangerous things you can do. It has been claimed that the quality has gradually deteriorated, that it is a social experiment. Well, you might wonder why it's 80 pst. 1 to 2 year olds are in kindergarten, and 96,5 pst. of those between 3 and 5 years of age, are in kindergarten. What are the parents that did not understand the right-hand side? I agree with Solvency Horne who started his post saying that Norway has today among the world's best kindergartens. It has Solvency Horne quite right in it. It is not thanks to the many proposals made by the Progress Party in the area of kindergarten, and it is at least not thanks to the rhetoric of the Progress Party in this area that we have achieved those objectives. But I have to say that reading the comments from the Advancement Party and the Right, and hearing what is being said in the Chamber today, is to get a lump in the throat of. I have asked the floor to ask the right three questions. Firstly, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, in his speech earlier in the debate, says that the quality of the nursery sector has stopped altogether. But in the comments in the settings of St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009 on the quality of kindergartens, the right-hand side says that the satisfaction of parents with the nursery provision is the main indicator of the quality of kindergartens. That indicator goes up, so what's the right that Norwegian parents don't understand? What message is it that the quality has stopped all the way up, to give to the many thousands who make an amazing effort for our children every single day, and who work with good quality all the time? And: What relationship does the Right have to the facts, when we know that the proportion of managers with approved education has increased from 89 to 93 pst. in the last five years, and that the adult density has also increased in the last five years? We're not where we want to be, but claiming that the quality is getting worse is simply not right. What's the actual right-hand side doing right now? On the one hand, they are asking the government to introduce ongoing admissions, without giving money. Then they don't ask the government to introduce language mapping, and now they're squeezing at the government so that it doesn't go fast enough. So the Right Government asked for an offer to men who became fathers, but knead at the Council of State when a better offer is proposed. Is this an expression that a conscious deceives people, or does politics have short shelf-life?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e425	There was a lot on the right hand side and the left hand side, so it's time for someone to come up with some center positions here. I didn't get the five-minute post, so I'm going to try to push everything in in three minutes. The government must have boasted that there are many kindergartens built during their time. The government must also boast that it has made it much cheaper to go to kindergarten, especially for those with high incomes – because it is where you see that the big promise has happened in terms of price. That doesn't mean we've come to the goal that everything with kindergartens is perfect. I believe that we face two major challenges – giving space to everyone and to the content of kindergartens. When it comes to giving space to everyone, it's not that we have a right that applies to absolutely everyone. When my little grandnephew takes care that he is so “feet” into life, as it is called in trunnerish, that he comes two months too early, he does not have that right, because he is born on the wrong side of the finish line that the parents have fit this exactly into according to how it was to be done. Nor do we believe that there are so few who are going to want kindergarten when the cash support disappears, as the government believes. This is two of the major challenges we have in place. Then we have a price challenge, and that's making it cheaper for those who have bad advice. To put it simply in the case of Oslo: when I was a city councillor for this area in Oslo, we had an income rating that led to that if you had over 655,000 kroner in income, you paid about 5500 kroner for a nursery place. But if you made less than 150 000 kroner, you paid 730 kroner for the first child and nothing for the second. The great promise made by the government led to the possibility for all families in the Holmenkol lock to make NOK 30 000–40000 a year on the new nursery prices, while it was still equally expensive, if not more expensive, for them with less than NOK 150000 in income. We have to do something about this. That's why the left has added 150 million. kr in their proposed alternative state budget to obtain a higher grade of nursery prices, in order to make it cheapest for them with poor advice. So I would have liked to say a lot about the content, but I also have to explain how to vote in the left. We support the proposal No. One, two, three, four, five, seven. We are quite consistent in language mapping, so we are voting against proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox I believe that the major challenge for kindergartens in terms of language is to have kindergarten staff who master Norwegian perfectly. It's a very big challenge, so maybe you should test pediatric staff in language rather than test children in language. Besides, we're very sceptical about introducing a massive survey that takes a lot of time for good educators, who would rather have spent time on the kids who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e442	As always in such debates, there will be more focus on what we disagree about, rather than what we agree on. When we read the case, we see that an overall committee is behind a lot of the comments in the vote. It's always fun to listen to Arild Stokkan-Grande when he draws to the great heights and criticises the right-hand side's suggestion. There's no way how far back in time he goes, and how much black paint there may be, in terms of how the Party's policies in the kindergarten field have been before and after that or that era. I want to remind Arild Stokkan-Grande that when the kindergarten agreement was adopted in this room, it was very much due to the Progress Party. The party acknowledges that most families with children today use kindergartens. But unlike the representative, Stokkan-Grande, we also recognise that families themselves must have freedom of choice, and we recognise the families who choose a different offer than kindergarten – that they want cash support. It is, of course, the difference between the Progress Party and the Labour Party that we want freedom of choice for families. Then there's another debate about language mapping. The research team has been involved in language screening at health centres at the age of four. What the Progress Party voted against in the case we were dealing with was a mandatory screening of 3 year olds in kindergartens, and we suggested – as it says in the setting – that it should be possible to have language monitoring both in health centres and in kindergartens from the age of four. So it's very nice to show that the Progress Party or the Right has not put in so much money for continuous recording. We've written a lot of questions to the ministry to find out how many billions are involved in a continuous recording. But we're only told that it's hard to figure it out, and that it's talking about billions of dollars. It could have been very interesting to know: Is that talking about 1 billion? NOK, it's 2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? That's why the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party is that we need to get a case for the Stortinget to get a setup where we see what the costs are. But it must not be that getting a nursery place should depend on when you are born in the year. I think we all have to look at that in order to get a continuous recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e455	The debate has evolved in a slightly special direction. I agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that there is a need here for a good centre view in order to find the best solutions. Some claims have come from the position of the opposition's policy today and how it compares with what has been said before. It is very difficult to relate to such criticism when it is then to the degrees inaccurate and unpresis. You're criticizing the opposition, without mentioning which batch you're criticizing. You throw out some terms and quotes that are supposed to be used, without linking them to a person, on an occasion or barely enough to a quote. Then there will be a very poor starting point for responding to the criticism and conducting a good debate. Let me just say that the Christian People's Party has voted in favour of funds for all the kindergarten places that it has invested in in recent years. We've given a lot to the sector, not least in terms of equivalent treatment for private people, which would give an extra incentive to even more bet on private kindergartens. Other parties get answers for themselves, but for the Christian People's Party, we haven't criticised that the expansion has gone too fast. Nor have we mentioned that there should be continuous recording at the same time as this expansion has taken place, but we have only pointed out on several occasions – both in the previous period and during this period – that the point of this expansion is that those who want it will have a place. We have desires and ambitions in line with that. The wording that we are going to vote on today is, of course, as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a more flexible childcare admission regardless of when the child is born.’ It's not a very unreasonable ambition to have if you want a good kindergarten policy. When the government comes back with such a case, if it is adopted, it must include the funds it requires in the budget. So, the representative, Gjul, asks, what kids aren't supposed to fit? The Council of State has just stood on the pulpit of the Grand Duchy and said that the reason why no more is now available is to ensure quality first. So the Council of State has basically replied that you are cutting such a line, but the Christian People's Party has not criticised that the expansion has gone too fast. In terms of language mapping, the Christian People's Party has not opposed it either. But what we criticized about last year's crossroads was changing the contents of the kindergarten and performing results measurements in a particular area, and asking that you follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e477	I have followed in the debate, and I even put in the whole evening reading the minutes of the debate which was last March on the quality of kindergartens. It's important to keep up with these debates if you're going to get along with what the different parties think. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Håbreck, that I should clearly name those I am quoting, as it is the case that the debate that was recorded in the Stortinget from March last year goes on for two things. He goes on warnings and fears of increased levels of language mapping, and he goes against mandatory language mapping. I would like to praise the Christian People's Party, because they are temporary for what they meant in March. They would have to do that, even if I wanted them to be part of the idea of a language mapping, because there is some confusion out here, and in my view, there is something to be done about it. It is not the same thing to operate with a dynamic form of observation technique, a mapping in kindergarten, and skill testing. We also have some research done in that area on how to monitor language development directly when young people interact with other young people. That's a bit of the background because it's argued that kindergarten is a unique venue to map that language development, because that's where they're in the hands of people they know well, where they use their language. In addition, it must also be noted that last year's debate said from the government party that it is important that we also catch up with the young people who do not go to kindergarten, and we still believe that. Therefore, when the representative Horne, and in part also the representative Hofstad Helleland, says that the reason they opposed it was because it was about kindergarten. But today's proposals say that they want the government to legislate ‘mandatory language mapping for all children after 3 years of age, in kindergarten or in health centre’. So they can at least admit that they've changed their posture, possibly in relation to pediatric monitoring. I also repeat what I said in my speech, because the representative Ib Thomsen said in the debate last year that our proposal to offer monitoring reminded me of what they were dealing with in China or in Eastern Europe. How, then, do we interpret the proposal that is here today? Which country does it belong to at home? There are some shades that it is important to have in this debate, which I thought the debate was lacking last March. Maybe there's a little bit more nuances today. It is important that the representative Schei Grande says about the pedagogues' work in kindergarten. The type of mapping currently carried out by a driver in relation to TRAS and dynamic method use is in direct contact with the young. It goes where the kids are, and I have faith in it to strengthen the work of early efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e493	I agree with Solvency Horne that we largely agree on most things. We want more kindergarten, better kindergarten, former kindergarten and cheaper kindergarten. By the way, I'm a little uncertain about cheaper, but I'll come back to that. But only until what Hope says that the opposition will finance it when the government has first decided that action should be put on the agenda and implemented. I believe that the opposition in other budget debates is good enough to provide money and measures on alternative proposals that the opposition will implement and that the government has not included in its list of measures. So there is no response back to the Council of State challenge that there is not one party in this room that has financed up and put in place the recording scheme that we are all ideally looking for and believe is right. Only then are we fully in terms of quantity. So a little bit back to the price and cheaper kindergarten. When Trine Skei Grande starts with examples based on people in the Holmenkol lock, I'm still unsure if parts of the opposition don't want to cancel the parental payment. So there's SV in place a clear view that in the universal welfare state kindergarten is going to be a maritime part included, and in the universal welfare state we're going to have basically free services. If we're going to have payment services, we're going to have a system of exemptions for people with poor paying skills, but basically we're going to have this as universal arrangements. But I'm interpreting the opposition so that for high-income groups it now wants to increase parental pay – and in that way maybe finance some of the things you want to do in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e502	This debate has been an interesting experience. I have to say that the representative Stokkan-Grande made me quite warm in my snapp. I think it's pretty strong that there's alleged things about the opposition, and then you argue about it. I don't remember ever hearing anyone, either in this room or elsewhere, who said anything about quality work stopping up in the kindergarten sector. It would've been really weird if we had meant it. The kindergartens are, after all, one of the strongest tools the municipalities have, and I know that there is a lot of crazy quality work going on around the municipalities. There's nothing this hall has any monopoly on thinking about. I also know that the balance between quality and quantity is quite fragile in all contexts of life, and I can't see why the position doesn't seem that it's okay that we also discuss the ongoing content and quality of the kindergarten, and not only are, like the representative Awake!, concerned with what people said last year, but that we'd rather discuss further to get an even better kindergarten in the years that come. Barnehagen is – and I agree with the Vågslid in – a unique venue for identifying children’s languages, but professionals can actually monitor children’s languages elsewhere, for example. at health stations. Several of the proposals are interesting, said the Council of State. I'm glad to hear that, because I totally agree with her, and I also think it's a little cross of thought that we've made a formidable leap, as the council pointed out, without any deterioration in quality. I agree with that, but it's something called growing pain as well. In any case, we are about to have up to 7 000 pedagogues, pedagogues, who have a dispensation, and then there is something that has not been entirely in line with each other. But I trust that we will be able to put it back in place together later. It is also the case that the current recording has a price tag, as the Council of State said. It also has hospitals in the municipalities – and it’s not like a Norwegian municipality can tell a person who needs hospitalization, that you get back to the next year, because now 1 September has been. Such things must find their solutions in a smooth operation in the municipalities, and I am absolutely sure that the government will be able to find good solutions if you had taken over today's proposal, and then come back to Stortinget with a way to discuss it, with a continuous decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e517	This, I think, was a very strange debate, and I'm a little concerned if that's how we're going to discuss kindergarten policy in the future: that the government parties are more concerned about discussing what happened before, what parties have done it and what it said and what it was and what it said in the paper. Obviously, one has had such a red-green colloquia group this weekend where it was decided that we should now have a second chance at our reality description: kids are doing well in kindergarten, parents are doing well, and employees are doing well, and that's just the opposition. I think it's quite strange that the government parties are not more concerned about discussing in this room how the future kindergartens can improve, that you don't want to welcome suggestions from the opposition and say that now we're going to use this opportunity to look at how proposals can make sure that kids get a better day of kindergarten. I was just at a big growth conference last week with hundreds of participants. They have a completely different understanding of everyday life than the red-green politicians in this room have about how everyday life is. They told me about a complete lack of continuing education, they told me about a working day when you don't have access to qualified staff, they told me about a working day when the quality of kindergartens is getting worse. Of course, we have a great many good kindergartens, and we parents are very happy that we have the opportunity to be at work and have a place to send our kids, but not all children have a good kindergarten offer. There are many kindergartens that are too bad, and then it surprises me that the government parties are not more concerned about discussing it. Had it not been for the opposition, it would certainly not have been many times we had discussed kindergarten here, for there are not many issues and suggestions coming from this government in this field. So I hope that the government parties next time – because I'm going to promise that the Right is going to promote more suggestions on how the kindergartens are going to get better – maybe have a different approach and will look at what it is that we can get better at. In the case of screening, the right is occupied by what is happening in kindergartens. There is a survey every day, but we are also concerned about ensuring that all children have the opportunity to be followed up, including those who do not go to kindergarten. What does the government do especially about those who don't even meet up at the health centre with their kids? How do you follow up on kids that you don't see until they start the first day of school and can't speak Norwegian? I hope we don't get a reprisal of this debate again, because this wasn't very impressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e530	It's nice to listen to the Right right now, because Sylvi Graham says something that I very much agree with, that it will be very strange that someone would claim from this pulpit that the quality work in Norwegian kindergartens has stopped. Then she may not have heard very well after Linda Hofstad Helleland had spoken earlier in the debate, for she just said that the quality work in Norwegian kindergartens has stopped. Now I hope that Sylvi Graham is the person who has the greatest impact in the Right on how they deal with Norwegian kindergartens. When the Right, who has two representatives in this Chamber in this debate, obviously doesn't agree with themselves, it's no wonder that the other people are wondering what is the Right Line in the area of kindergarten. So Linda Hofstad Helleland claims that Norwegian parents and Norwegian children are happy with the kindergarten offer, which is what the red-green parties have almost invented at a seminar at a high-mountain hotel. But how in the world does Linda Hofstad Helleland read the reports and the studies that actually examine the satisfaction of parents and that show that parents have become more satisfied with the kindergarten offer, and that Norwegian children largely thrive in Norwegian kindergartens? We have thousands of employees in the sector who do a formidable job, who have managed to maintain and actually increase the quality of Norwegian kindergartens despite having had a huge kindergarten expansion. Now it has to end that black paint from the right-hand side of it. So it's said that there wouldn't have been any discussion about quality in the kindergarten sector in this room, it wouldn't have been for the opposition parties. I am not surprised that Linda Hofstad Helleland has forgotten that we discussed St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009 on the quality of kindergartens just a year ago, when she has obviously also forgotten what she was doing in this debate. We have also been informed that the government will send a report of quality in kindergarten next year. So in addition to the fact that the black paint of the Norwegian nursery sector has to end, it also has to end the misinformation that we are constantly hearing from the Right from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e545	Just a few comments on the tame of this debate, because I expect some of the themes to be repeated when we look at the budget for 2012. Let me first take what we know about income-grade payment. We know that 20-25 pst. of kindergartens have income graded rates. But 73 pst. of the municipalities have free space or other discount schemes through the social office, the child protection centre or the school office. 58 pst. by the municipalities, they offer moderation arrangements outside the ordinary payment system of the nursery. In fact, four municipalities also have free kindergarten. We know that there are classified arrangements that ensure that children from families with poor advice come to kindergarten. I have asked the Central Statistical Office to go through the Child Welfare Survey to see how different central approaches can be taken in relation to the graduated kindergarten rate. But it is today that the municipalities have an obligation to offer a nursery place that is possible for those who receive the offer to accept. Then I might think it's a little funny that someone who sits with a political majority in their municipalities is yelling at the state to get this done. So if it's already a well graduated payment system, the municipalities are free to implement it. I think we have free school because we want people to pay taxes according to their ability, but we need universal welfare schemes. I am very pleased that the kindergartens are now set at NOK 2 330 a month. It's not cheap, either, when you pay taxes according to your ability. I believe that substantial and important well-being should be organised in such a way that, of course, we primarily pursue distribution policies across the tax code, and that we take into account some other considerations. But it cannot be an objective to pay by income in all possible areas of a welfare country. That's why we have universal arrangements. So for so-called continuous recording. We don't have a price tag on the current recording, but we have the price tag on two recordings this year instead of one. That's about. 1 billion. kr on an annual basis. If that's how the opposition wants to start somewhere by increasing the right to a nursery place, you can start with two admissions a year. What is not possible is that one has growing pain in the kindergarten sector, while one wants more admissions a year, because it is not related. It's absolutely right that we have exemptions. We have increased because we have deepened our understanding of the pedagogical norm in kindergartens, but we have a significant challenge in recruiting more preschool teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e559	The representative, Linda Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e562	I just want to add that when it comes to flexible recording, at least we have said to the Right that we want this to be facilitated in municipalities where possible. We're not adding money to it in our budget. We also think it is wrong to oblige the municipalities to do so. But we know today that some municipalities have a more or less flexible nursery reception. Then I want to say that I'm happy that the Right will grant 100 million. kr more for quality in kindergarten. I suspect that there may not be anything that is very well received by the government parties, especially when there is massive criticism from those who work in kindergarten, that it is not a greater bet. I think of the enormous aggression of the government parties in the debate, and that it may be due to the good old saying that attack is the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e571	I think it was a little too little by 3 minutes to explain the price policy of the left hand side, so I'll try again. It is very nice that SV dreams that the kindergarten should be free of charge. It may be the goal for all of us over time, but now we're not there. In Aksel Hagen's dream world, we're not. It actually costs to have children in kindergarten. So the question is, are we going to have a price that's going to be equal to everyone or are we actually going to make it cheaper for those who might need the kindergarten the most, namely those who have bad advice? That's why the Left fights in all municipalities where we have power, including in Oslo, to maintain the classified parental payment, which has cost us a lot in priority in many local governments. That's why the Left has proposed adding 150 million. kr for increased grading. We want to give a handshake to the municipalities to get that grip, because we think it's important. And it's also true that we're going to go to $70 more a month for those who can afford it. If anyone thinks it's the family economy for people with good advice, then it doesn't. But what we're going to do to lower the price for the poor, I think, in fact, matters for the good priorities. It's absolutely right that it's probably costing to introduce more recordings. It's strange that we've introduced a law that doesn't apply. We have decided that there should be a statutory right to kindergarten, but it does not apply if you are born at the wrong time. And that's why it's so important for us to stretch out, and that's why it's important for us to find the grips that make everyone have babysitting. Children need this kind of quality, if they find that they are actually born two months before the parents have actually planned, in order to adapt to Norwegian legislation. This is something you have to work on. And then you have to assume that we're missing 6 000 to 7 000 pre-school teachers. We lack professionals in a lot of areas. There is a lot of this that can be done in the municipalities. I've been to the district of Alna for a while – and if I'm going to give the council a tip, it's that she does too. There you have worked systematically with the quality of kindergartens, also with recruiting professionals, by going into educational institutions and giving people scholarships to commit themselves to work in Alna City – and there are so many good kindergartens. It is possible to get to sea in a place with high housing prices, which does not make it easy to establish itself as a pre-school teacher. I think it's the systematic work that must be done on the part of the municipalities and on the part of the state. That's why we want more of these quality projects, we want to increase the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e584	Just a few comments about the price. We can pretend to be on two different planets, but we're not. The challenge we are facing now is this: through the nursery arrangement and the introduction of the maximum rate, we have had the nursery price down from being a price of luxury. I had actually forgotten – until the representative Skei Grande came and said that it cost 5 500 kroner a month for people in Oslo to have a nursery place – how expensive it really was. But very many of us had kindergarten places that cost over NOK 4000, for example. in private kindergartens. It was very expensive, and it meant that many children did not get into kindergarten. Now we have got it down to a maximum price of NOK 2 330 – and we have said that we should keep it there from now on and forward. Then we've given priority to putting in the measures we're now going on, on the quality side, because we have challenges in recruiting pre-school teachers. The opposition will lift the maximum, increase the nursery price by more than what is proposed to be introduced at graduated rates. So I'm saying now we're going through this -- what's a reasonable way to centralize graduated rates? Because I have also gone through how the municipalities are just offering free space and graduated rates around, but maybe we need a better overview of it. What's interested, from the latest child care study, is the answer when we ask the parents who don't have children in kindergarten: what's preventing you from – what's the barrier to – using a nursery place? Then almost no one says that the price is now a hindrance to it. Then I think we've come very far, and then we'll see about it. So until it's about quality and quality development. I do not expect the opposition to start every morning by praising me, who is responsible for kindergartens, or the government – that is a little too much. But in this area, we have a very clear plan, both to ensure that we further develop kindergartens and to ensure the quality – and consensus on what a good kindergarten is – further on. We are now making an effort through Competence 2020, which is just about increasing the competence of kindergartens. This means that now in February we start a recruitment campaign to get more pre-school teachers in kindergartens, that we go through the framework plan from pre-school education to ensure the quality of pre-school teacher education, and that we do not forget the assistants in kindergartens, because we want several of them to take a professional letter. We have also had a formidable increase in research into what are good kindergartens for the youngest. I'm happy for all the commitment in this area, but the government has a very clear ambition: we're going to think big about the little ones. What we invest in the first few years, a good childhood, lasts a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e593	The President notes that it is clear that the Council of State does not expect the opposition to stand up every morning and praise her. It's noted. The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over. [[Footing, see page 910]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e613	Education and schooling are one of the most important inputs in giving children and young people the opportunity to stand on their own later in life. Good schooling provides many children with the ballast and the foundation needed to meet the many challenges of life. Of the children who may depend more than others on a good schooling, namely children's protection, there are unfortunately too many who do not get the education they require. Many of these children experience difficulties later in life, not least because of lost schooling. The children’s, youth and family budget published a user survey of children’s protection during the summer. It shows, among other things: That just 58 pst. by those living in institutions go to school every day. So it's going to be 24 pst. Who doesn't go to school, 25 pst. state that they fully or slightly agree that adults do not encourage them to attend school. The training law is clear: all children are required to be trained. However, according to this study, one in four children does not go up to school. These are some of our most vulnerable children — children who have somehow failed by their parents, so that the state has to assume responsibility for them. Many of these children fail again, but this time by the state, because it is the state that has assumed parental responsibility for these children. At the same time, the state has a duty to provide these children with schooling. The children we're talking about here are getting an undeservedly tough start to life. We know that many of them experience difficulties later in life. Research shows that schooling is essential for their further career in life, and survey from Sweden shows that in the group among the 20 pst. The weakest students are, then, all child-restraints. This gives cause for concern. The right is concerned that these children are even less likely to survive later in their lost school life. These are children who don't get the education the law says they should have. Knowing how important schooling is for people's ability to make their own way forward in life, this is a difficult situation to live with. According to an article in Education No. 13/2011 especially concerned about the youngest young people, and they stress that if primary school students do not go to school, ‘this may be a crime’. This survey confirms the results of national supervision on the schooling of residents of child protection institutions carried out in 2008. The supervision showed that many young people did not receive an approved training offer. The state has found violations of the Training Act in all counties. At the same time, they report that there is no overview of who these children are and where these schoolless youths are. I hope the Council of State agrees with me that we have reason to be concerned about these children, and that action is needed in both the short and long term to ensure that children's protection is also provided with the training they require. Children’s protection is a particularly vulnerable group, and Norway cannot be aware of not providing these children with satisfactory education and follow-up. It is also serious if it is now found that child-restraint children do not receive the training they are entitled to under the Training Act. The Ministry of Knowledge, according to the Stortinget, does not have an overview of how many children this may be, and it is not known that the problem is of such a magnitude as this survey refers to, and that there are so many child-restraint children who do not receive the training they require. Some statesmen have recently warned that the situation is more serious than previously assumed. For example, the County of Troms, which I would like to highlight in this context, through the supervision of various child protection institutions, has seen that some children do not follow regular training courses. The concerns of the county council are based on some observations through supervision, and therefore they have not been able to estimate the extent of the problem. But what the County of Troms does, after revealing this, is to launch a survey among all the child-rescue institutions in the county, where they demand more detailed information about the school services of the residents and the organisation of this. The County considers that it is close to believing that supervision will be exercised if the monitoring confirms the county's suspicion of a lack of legislative experience. I am pleased with initiatives like this. I hope the Council of State can also respond in this debate to the situation in the rest of the country. Is there a corresponding monitoring or supervision of the training activities of child protection institutions? I think it's important that we get clarity on that. Why do these children not receive the training they require? There are probably several and complex reasons why child-restraint children are in this situation. The answer may be that the child is not motivated. It's easy to imagine that a school day is not as good for all of these. Many of them have moved several times during their young life, they may have lived in several foster homes, they may have lived in several institutions, which has resulted in a change of school. The fixed point and the good friendship that the school represents for many children are by no means present. Lack of motivation in the child himself, disease and school rejection are also possible reasons. But there may also be aspects of the institution that are important to reveal. This may include, inter alia: poor cooperation with the school or poor knowledge of the rights and duties of the students that are the cause. It is also natural to ask questions about the county council to follow this up in a satisfactory manner. The county council shall at all times have an overview of the children and young people living in the individual child protection institution in the county. They have a training responsibility and require good cooperation procedures between the institution and the responsible county municipality. It is not least important that institutions have good procedures to report to the responsible county municipality about newly arrived children and young people to the institution so that training can be started as quickly as possible. It is interesting to hear if the Council of State believes that today we have county municipalities that handle this satisfactorily throughout the country. The cooperation between child protection and school is in many places not as good as we would like. In several places, children are often thrown away between different parts of the public utility and the supply they require. There are obviously major challenges here in order to achieve good enough cooperation. Closer cooperation between school and child protection is crucial. There is also no doubt that the figures in this survey show that we need to raise awareness in the institutions about how to achieve such cooperation, and how to ensure that more children and young people in institutions get to school. This problem again illustrates the need for early action in the field of child protection, because there are probably also numbers that reflect that we come in too often too late, that is, at a time when the youth may have been out of school for a long time, and where the problems have become so serious that it is very difficult to get them back to school. It shows the need for a reversal of child protection in order to reach the most vulnerable children earlier than what is being done today. When the government presents the work of both reorganization of child protection and new priorities, right-wing expectations are linked to this particular issue. We hope the government makes the schoolless children's protection a primary focus, and that this is an area that's being raised. Children's protection is undoubtedly a group of children who deserve the full attention of society. These are children who do not live the safe, stable life that the majority of Norwegian children happily do. The more important it is then that child protection and school together reach the maximum in order to facilitate these children to experience mastery and to be part of the social community that the school represents. A good school for children's protection is an ambition we should all work together to fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e655	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland notes that education and schooling are one of the most important things that all children and young people can carry as luggage to meet different challenges later in life, and it is very serious that the use of child protection surveys showed that one in four children at the institution did not go to school. I am therefore very pleased that this interpellation has taken place, that children in child protection institutions and under the care of child protection have challenges and needs that are currently not satisfactorily met. The user survey to which Hofstad Helleland refers was presented by the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family in March this year. It is the first user survey of children and young people over nine years of age in all state and private child protection institutions, state foster homes and among children receiving multisystemic therapy, i.e. that they are being treated at home. This study gives us some indications, for example: the group’s view of their schooling. When I clarify indications, this is based on the fact that because of the low response rate, the study can't say as much about how many in the whole target population are satisfied with the different themes that are being asked for. With this reservation, however, I would like to refer to some figures from this survey, because it gives us increased knowledge of how some children and young people who are in state child protection measures experience the school offer they receive — what they are satisfied with, and what they are less satisfied with. This gives us the opportunity to continue working on the questions. As pointed out by the representative of Hofstad Helleland, the user survey shows that children and young people in institutions are particularly distinguished by a total of 24 pst. stated that they do not go to school at all. This does not apply to children under 13 years of age, but some children and young people between 13 and 18 years of age, and almost half of young people over 18 years of age. Under the Education Act, children are subject to schooling as long as they go to primary school, and if these are children who do not go to school, it may be a criminal offence. However, it is not possible to identify on the basis of the survey, i.e. how many are above and below primary school age. In the case of young people who would normally have gone to higher education, the results are still serious. We know that the absence of secondary education involves a number of risk factors for young people. 75 pst. In the survey, children show that they thrive in school, that they do well, and that they get help from teachers when they need it. Although this is a relatively high proportion, it is worrying that many respond corroboratingly to the claim of well-being and mastering in school. 22 pst. by children and young people living in institutions, and 17 pst. who live in state foster homes or receive treatment in the home, MST, is somewhat or completely disagreed with the claim that they thrive at school. This is serious, because both professional and social learning outcomes and motivation to continue in school are so dependent on well-being. In comparison, the 2010 Student Survey showed that it was less than 6 pst. who said they didn't like school. So there are a lot more of the children who have different forms of child protection that do not thrive. In today's knowledge society, school, as we all know, plays a very important role for the future of children and young people. Some children and young people have a more difficult upbringing than others, and for many in child protection, this also characterizes their schooling and prospects. Life at school can also be a source of adversity for children that weakens their well - being and school performance. It is also well documented that children who are helped by child protection are not successful enough in our education system. A 2008 report shows that former child-restraint children have lower education, lower income, significantly higher unemployment than other citizens, and receive more assistance and care. They also have poorer health and are consistently easier to be disapproved as adults. Many suggest that many of these did not get the follow-up that was necessary for them to succeed in school. Child protection is responsible for providing children and families with the necessary help and support and actively supporting their children in their schooling. The school is responsible for facilitating the well-being of child-restraint children at school, achieving good results and completing secondary education. Together, they shall contribute to providing children with a better everyday life and a positive future. I am aware that the Troms County Council, through the supervision of various child protection institutions, has learned that some children do not follow regular training courses. In 2011, the County of Troms surveyed the school offerings of residents and their organisation at the National Children's Protection Institutes. It is a very serious matter if children and young people are not trained. I would therefore ask all the statesmen to carry out the same type of monitoring of training provision in child protection institutions that the County Council of Troms has done. In the light of the information we then receive, I will discuss with the Education Directorate and the county council members whether there is a need for supervision in some counties, and how, if so, these inspections should be organised. It is important to be aware that there may be several and complex reasons why child-restraints do not receive the training they require. The county council may not have procedures to keep track of the children and young people living in child protection institutions at all times. There may be relationships with the child or with the young person himself, such as illness, school refusal, etc., and there may be relationships with the institution, such as: insufficient cooperation with the school or insufficient knowledge of the rights and duties of students. Training responsibilities of the county council require good cooperation procedures between the institution and the responsible county council. In particular, it is important that institutions have good procedures to report to the responsible county municipality of newly arrived children and young people to the institution so that training can be started as soon as possible after arrival at the institution. The government has invited the county councils – and everyone has agreed – to systematic cooperation over a three-year period to increase implementation in higher education – called the New GIV. This is a partnership aimed at establishing lasting cooperation between countries, municipalities and municipalities in order to improve the students’ prerequisites for completing and continuing secondary education. Since children's protection is over-represented in non-response statistics, we hope to achieve many of them through this initiative. The project includes: many 10th-stage students are able to increase their competence, so that they have a better chance of completing secondary education later. The new GIV also has a project, called the Follow-up Project, aimed at young people between the ages of 16 and 21 who are neither in secondary education nor at work. After six months of project efforts, the county follow-up service on a national basis halved the number of unknown young people, i.e. young people we did not know where, from nearly 10,000 to less than 5,000. It is hard to get schools, follow-up services and hubs to coordinate the use of instruments for the target audience. Young people under child protection and former child protection are clearly an important group we are trying to reach through this project. Through the partnership New GIV, we also have related to the Los project, which the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has started. The project, launched in 14 selected municipalities in eight counties, is targeted at young people aged 14-23 who are particularly struggling to master school and work. The target group is confined to young people with complex needs, i.e. young people who need to be followed up by more services and actors. Through the project, young people shall have one person to deal with who provides close follow-up and assists young people in contact with other support services, as well as helping young people to benefit better from school or other services. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate has also implemented a number of measures to strengthen the school relationship with children’s protection. Among other things, a practical school supervisor has been developed as a tool for foster parents and employees in institutions. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we have contacted the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on cooperation on an updated letter on alert procedures when children are away from home after child protection measures. The two departments have also embarked on long-term work to improve the school affiliation of children with child protection. The first event was a user hearing in February this year. This user hearing gave valuable input into what can be done to improve the relationship of children with the school. The next step is to collect research on measures to improve the school situation and educational outcomes of children with disabilities. In the 2012 State Budget, the Government proposes to hold an international scientific conference to this end. The recordings of the user consultation and the research conference, together with the initiatives under the New GIV, will contribute to a long-term strategy to improve the school association of children with child protection. Finally, I would like to thank the representative for addressing this important issue. We all have a responsibility to cooperate well to improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e701	I would like to thank the Council of State for many good answers. I think it's very important that in the future we have an increased focus on education and school for children's protection. It can mean a lot for these children's later careers. We know that just a lot of the kids who fail at school have a background from child protection. I think it is important that we look at two aspects of this matter. I would like to quote first the training director of the Hordaland County Municipality, who, in cooperation with Bufetat and Bergen Municipality, has published a booklet on just this. ‘In the case of children and young people with a right and obligation to primary education, planning of a training course must be undertaken as soon as possible, while at the same time acquiring knowledge of the child/youth in order to provide a satisfactory benefit from the training.’ It is precisely this matter that the institution must do what they can to motivate and facilitate the child to attend school, while also doing what they are obliged to do. So I also think it's important that we put together in school every day, because these are children who, at least many of them, have difficulty acquiring knowledge in the usual way, precisely because their heads and souls are unfortunately filled with a lot of other things than sucking in knowledge. Then we have to look at how these kids can be given the opportunity to be in the stable or at the workshop and learn mathematics and other schools there, and get an equal benefit from it. That's why I'm glad that the Right in its alternative budget is worth $30 million. kr just for this purpose. In this way, these children can be offered a more individual school run so that they can succeed from their point of view and be given the opportunity to survive later in life. At the end of the day, I want to hear the Council of State reply to exactly what is happening to an individual training plan, so that these kids get an individual school run. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e719	I believe that the challenges for children growing up in child protection institutions or with other child protection measures are not primarily about special pedagogics – at least it is my goal that it should not. An individual training plan is provided if you need special pedagogical measures. However, the challenge for child-restraint is that many are living in a situation where they do not necessarily have learning difficulties, but they may face considerable challenges in implementing their schooling. My goal is to have a liberal school where there's more emphasis on practical ways of working, which means that more children are met in school in such a way that they master the challenges they're facing. That'll be my main angle of incidence for this. And of course, children who have special challenges are offered. I think that school and child protection have been two heavy institutions that each on their side has had very different traditions. Child protection was to run with care, the school system was to equip students for professional performance. But both of these two are essential for children to have a good starting point in their lives. Therefore, it is essential that we be able to get school and child protection to cooperate much better in the future. We need to strengthen dialogue and gain an understanding between child protection and school, so that child protection children get the best possible follow-up from both systems. We have information about children who have grown up in a child-retirement facility or have received help from child-resistance services in other ways. These are children who initially often have quite major challenges. We know that of those who are over 25 years of age, we generally have 40 pst in the youth population. with higher education. Of those who have had contact with child protection, there are 8 pst. So here we have a lot to go on. My starting point is that these children do not initially need special pedagogical measures. My starting point is that they have a challenging life situation – a situation in relation to their parents and their upbringing that makes them need to be seen and followed up in a much better way than what we can do today. With the measures that I have now taken, with much better cooperation between child protection and school, and with the county councillors, who are going to get an overview of how things stand in their counties as to what the situation is, I think we need to do two things. One is that the right to education — which applies to those attending primary school — is to be honoured. The second is that we should ensure that as many young people as possible complete secondary education. Then a child protection child is part of the New GIV target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e739	Good schooling, with a focus on knowledge and mastering, is essential for young people to have opportunities in life. The goal must always be to lift the students – never lower the ambitions, regardless of the starting point. The interpellant addresses an important issue with regard to children’s protection and their ability to succeed in schooling and later working life. Child protection children have the same rights as other children under Section 2-1 of the Training Act and they should also be guaranteed the same opportunities. They are entitled to meet a school that is ambitious on their behalf and that gives them the follow-up they need to learn, in order to succeed. As I see it, one of the most important things is that child protection and school cooperate well on the schooling of these kids. Child protection is the responsibility of child-restraint education and education authorities are responsible for providing children with an adapted training provision. From other research, we know that the home's commitment to having children make an effort at school has a lot to say for their motivation. The students with the highest school motivation are those who live with both parents, who are overrepresented here. Thus, positive and mutual cooperation between home and school is often of great importance for children and young people to have their skills, facilities and interests realized in a good way. There should be a reminder of the vulnerability of child-restraint children to schooling. Then it is the institution they live in, or are linked to, that must have part of the support function that parents in very many other cases fill. Sometimes they get the necessary support from the family of the child, and many times they don't. The institution must then provide young people with the necessary help and support so that they can get to school so that they can master the profession and schoolwork. There are complex reasons, as both the interpellant and the Council of State have been involved, for children’s protection to strive to meet the schoolwork. There may be a lack of routines in the institutions; there may be situations in which the youth himself strives, which may make schooling difficult; there may be sickness or other problems requiring treatment and follow-up; and there may be other aspects of school owners and the way in which they practice their role, which makes it difficult for these young people. I am aware that the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate has implemented a number of measures to strengthen the school relationship with children’s protection. Governments have been involved in both a part of them and a number of measures taken by the Ministry of Knowledge. In addition, long-term and systematic work is needed to identify the best actions in the future. Here, cooperation between children and parents, as well as professionals and researchers, will be central. I have noticed that the government in the government budget for 2012 has proposed to hold an international research conference on this, and I believe that this is an important step in strengthening the measures to ensure the schooling of these kids. It is both useful and necessary to discuss the challenges and problems child protection can face. That is why I very much appreciate the initiative that the interpellant has taken. That's just how to solve the problem with these problems. At the same time, we must not be blinded by the many challenges that child-restraint in institutions and schools can face. Earlier this month, Cecilia Dinardi was appointed the model of the Year by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The young law student came to Norway from Chile as an asylum seeker with her mother and her two siblings when she was 12 years old. When she was 13, she was placed under the care of child protection, and she lived in foster homes. When she was 17, she became the mother of a girl. But a strong commitment to the situation of child-restraint also led Cecilia Dinardi, as a 16-year-old, to establish what is today the National Children's Protection Association. She is also on the board of the Oslo Children's Protection Association. It shows that it is not only possible to succeed as a child protection child, it is also possible to go ahead and be a model for other young people. Our task must be to strengthen those possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e758	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important matter, which concerns the schooling of children's protection. Today, we are all aware of the importance of education and knowledge for individuals to be able to stand on their own later in life. A study conducted by NOVA, several of which have been absent, shows that children’s protection clients are living worse than the rest of the country’s population. They include: lower education, less income, is more dependent on social assistance and a high proportion of them are unemployed. There's probably different reasons why it's like this. But it's not going to come from the fact that basic skills and education have an incredible amount to say about what opportunities you get later in life. The study in Bufetate, which shows that 24 pst. not attend the school at all, the Progress Party considers that there must be clear and clear consequences. Children’s protection, school, municipality, county and other bodies involved in children for whom child protection is the responsibility must soon find good ways to cooperate. There the Minister of Knowledge, together with other ministers responsible for both municipalities, counties, etc., has a great responsibility for this. But what's also very disturbing is that 25 pst. of adults who work in a child-care facility do not encourage and encourage their children to attend school. Such attitudes and practices are very critical to the Progress Party. I believe that this is to do these children a bear service and is something that neither in the short term nor in the long term contributes to the maintenance of children's rights under the Training Act, which gives all children of school age the right and obligation to training. There is also no doubt that many track safety children who have had and are very difficult need extra follow-up at school. These needs to be better cared for than what is being done in many cases today, through organised education, individual training plans and better day-to-day school support in order to complete schooling. But a prerequisite for that is that adults make sure they get to school. However, the Progress Party will warn against stigmatisation of child-restraint protection children and initially considered a weak group that is much weaker than other children. We have to have the same expectations and demands for these children that we have for every other child. Having expectations and making demands on someone in this context actually means that we care about and trust that children are also able to gain knowledge and complete schooling in the same way as all the other children we expect and demand. If this is not done, it may indicate an attitude that shows that you do not believe in the child who is responsible for child protection. The Progress Party believes that the school and living conditions surveys of child-restraint children show that it is important to act quickly to achieve coherent cooperation between all the different bodies responsible for child-restraint children at school and to provide the training they require. I also recorded that the Minister of Knowledge said that things were going on – cooperation had been established between different agencies. That's good. Furthermore, I registered that questions were raised – they did not fully know who the children it was about were, and where these children were. In fact, the Party expects that action has already been taken, so that those responsible have been made aware that the rights of the child-restraint child-restraint are being respected. If it is not in letter form or through other information, we encourage it – given here as an immediate measure. In fact, we expect that. As regards the fact that the report also raised doubts as to whether the figures are real in relation to children’s needs, we believe that the report needs to be taken seriously. Whether you're unsure about the number of children who don't go to school, votes, and whether the number of children who aren't encouraged to go to school, votes, has to be very important, even if you're not sure about the number. Here we have no one to lose, to say it like this, here we just have to use all the agencies, so that as much as possible get a good education that is organized for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e779	The inter-pellant addresses a timely issue of how the state fails to provide training responsibility for children under the care of child protection. The consequences of not having completed primary and secondary education can be very serious in view of opportunities for future social and professional participation. Children's protection children in institutions are individuals. We know the concept of a lion's child — children who, despite their difficult life situation, are doing well at school and later in life. But we also know that many child-restraint children have experienced massive care failure and can cope with mental illness, behavioral and drug problems. These are students who will require resources and organisation in addition to normal school practice. When one in four children in an institution are not granted their schooling rights, this indicates a serious failure to the children who have already had the most difficulty. The current responsibilities of the county council for the provision of education obviously do not function according to the intention and are no guarantee that the children’s training rights will be fulfilled. The responsibility of the county councils for ensuring that children's rights to education and training are fulfilled by the institution's child-restraint child-restraint child-restraint child-restraint children seems reasonable in the case of young people beyond primary school age until they are satisfied with their right to secondary education. In this context, new GIV measures can also contribute to the follow-up of young people in childcare facilities in line with other peers. However, my concern is linked to the instruments available to the county with regard to children and young people in child protection institutions under the age of 16 and in primary school age. Here, New GIV could possibly be a 10th grade contribution, but what about measures in the previous nine years of primary school? The current stateman in Troms has personally engaged himself strongly, among other things. in the situation of the child-restraint children through the multi-disciplinary initiative Sjumilssteget, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, practised in the municipality. The idea behind the Scumil step is to mobilise all the good forces that work with children, across levels of government and sectors. In the shumil stage, special searchlights are placed on institutional children in the area of child protection, where you should be more aware of the right and duty of your children to school. It seems obvious to be a challenge that the county has formal responsibility, while it may be the municipality where the institution is located, which in practice will provide the school offer when the child is in primary school age. Experience has shown that these children require extra resources. It is then important that the county councils have dialogue with relevant municipalities, so that the provision of pupils from child protection institutions is ensured and organised in the best possible way. The right is concerned that the training right is also to be granted to child-restraint children in an institution. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Knowledge today to answer the Storting whether the Ministry will take an initiative towards the county councils of the country to make sure that cooperation with the municipalities is formalised well enough, so that all children in child protection institutions actually get a school offer, and not today who seem to be doing this between several chairs. Many children and young people in institutional child protection experience several shifts. It is then essential to ensure the most seamless transition from one training provision to another. The right considers that such transitions can be made safer and better if these children are accompanied by a tailor-made training plan. Then the new schools can easily take over the staf stick. The right is also concerned that the training provision of child-restraint children in an institution should not lead to further stigmatisation. On the contrary, we believe that the school can be a very important arena to establish new friends and new social networks for these children, who otherwise often only have adults around them. In a vulnerable situation, where there may be a long way between fixed positions, the school can become such a positive point of view in everyday life. To ensure schooling for all children with child protection is to the Right about the overall quality of state child protection. That's why we're impatient and we're not going to give up until we feel completely confident that all the kids are getting the training they're actually entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e807	I also think that Linda C. Hofstad Helleland is addressing a very important issue. Schools and education are important to all of us and are of particular importance to these child-restraint children. Many people have come up with it in a good way. For me, this is a typical example of how important it is with generally good welfare arrangements, and that generally good arrangements are the best and exactly what they need, those that depend on particular vigilance and special attention. A solid, good school with a variety of methods and subjects, and which, as a good practice, has to see individual lives and, together with individual lives, few for good learning processes, is what is so important to get here. It presented Kristin Halvorsen in a good way in its contribution. It's just such a school that the child-restraint kids especially need. I represent a party and a state that are both very happy in primary school and in secondary school. The county is always important. This underlined, inter alia: Linda C. Hofstad Helleland in a very good way in this regard. I contacted my own county council to freshen up a little as to what their assessments in this case were by date. I've been a state politician for six years there. They strongly stress that they are still really trying to comply with the principle of secondary school, i.e. that it is in that school in the region in which the child protection institution or the home or foster home is located, that the teaching responsibility is placed. So I take my standard question, that there's probably too little money left to do that job as it is provided you're going to do. Then they answered surprisingly no, resources were not the problem. I'll come back to that a little bit. The problem was primarily what many people have been faced with, that this is very professionally demanding, and it is collaboratively demanding, precisely because the county council is going to play this coordinating role. What they further underline, and I agree, is that it is so important that this group is given the training to say as part of a larger community. So it has to be the last way out of public school — the high school, the municipal school. It shall take place in the community. It is a particular challenge to be able to provide tailored education to the individual, but as I said, it must be done within the community. Then it creeps a little bit when I hear that the right of the budget has put in money for some kind of training that can at least be heard that's a bit the opposite, that you're going to withdraw the student. – It shakes my head here, so here there might be an post that would disprove what I am now saying, or show that I may have perceived it a little wrong, and I appreciate it very much. Because if we're going to talk about both education and education, these kids need to be allowed to experience as much as possible the nice thing to do is to belong to a learning community that way. Then I am very pleased that the Council of State stressed that this is what all the country's country's statesmen are now going to focus on. I am pleased that the Council of State has already, as I understood it, answered the question from Elisabeth Aspaker whether she will take any initiative towards the county council here. That's what the Council of State said, that one should take such an initiative. So I want to say a little bit more about this with resources: here I know that there is disagreement among the county councils. Upland counties seem to be demanding in terms of funding, that it is the state in which the institutions are to pay for the type of education. They feel that it is demanding to get money from the municipalities from which these children/youth comes. In this sense, they believe that they subsidize this activity to some extent. But as I said, their main point is that the problem is not economic; the problem is the professional challenge that lies here, and not least to get to the good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e826	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important issue. Like all other children, child-restraint children also need a good home and a good school, and once child-restraint has been given responsibility to give their children a home, it becomes all the more important that we take that responsibility seriously and facilitate that very thing. There we have a big challenge, because the situation in child protection is still serious. In the first line service — municipal child protection — they are still understaffed. Over several years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of cases. In the current year’s budget, the government, following pressure from the Christian People’s Party, came with earmarked funds to strengthen municipal child protection. It was just a first step towards what is needed. Unfortunately, we see that this growth largely stops in the 2012 budget. There is virtually only the means to keep working those who were employed on the year's earmarked funds. It shows the need for a comprehensive national child-restraint plan, a plan that can be stepped up regardless of whether the budget looks like this or what it looks like one or the other year, and that it is more obligatory. We have a lack of foster homes, we have a lack of supervisors, we have a lack of treatment capacity in the counties, which makes matters take too long, and we have too little aftercare. The sum of these is that today’s children living in child-restraint institutions and having difficulties in education may not only be a consequence of care failure in their original home. It is also a consequence of a child-restraint that the government is unable to carry out that job, the enormous task and the enormous responsibility they have taken on by taking care of the children. Once again, I would like to stress from this pulpit that we need a national child-restraint plan, which enables us to take seriously the children for whom we can go to the step of taking responsibility. Children's protection needs a good home, but they also need a good school. A good school meets the children, the students, depending on the needs, the qualities and the possibilities they have. A good school encounters a variety of students with an offer to everyone, whether you are theoretically strong or practical — or what kind of interests and opportunities lie within each child. For many children who have a demanding background, it will also be important to have a firm framework in that school in order to find a place for them. In school policy, the Christian People's Party is very concerned with good home-school cooperation, because home represents a huge resource for the daily follow-up and thus also for the quality of school and training. Once child protection has become at home, good cooperation between child protection and school is all the more important. It is serious if it is such that children under the care of the child protection are not given the training they require. Child protection children are in different situations and have different backgrounds, and it is also such that in some periods the situation is so demanding that they cannot be in a classroom. It is important then that each individual is followed up so closely that you get the training you require — if not every day, so at least through each school year — and get the same opportunities as others to cope with the adult world. Everyone must be trained, everyone must have a good home, and everyone must have a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e848	I would also like to thank Hofstad Helleland for a very good interaction and initiative. I want to symbolize the challenge with a true story from a child protection institution in a small district municipality in Norway. A boy – I can call him Magnus – who was at the end of high school, had very clear opinions about what he wanted. He had had a summer job at a mechanical company in the village, where he thought it was very fun to work. He had been in high school and talked to them in the professional course of study he was going to go, and he thought those teachers were giants. This was what he wanted. He had even looked out where in the village he wanted to stay when he was going to move by himself. Then I spoke to those who worked at the Children's Protection Institute. They said that it's very difficult for boys who have such clear expectations about what to do, what to do, and what dreams they have about the future – when they know that every six months it's assessed whether they're going to live on at all in that institution. It's not for children's protection to have dreams and plans that go beyond six months. It is not possible to dream about which residential area you want to live in, or what mechanical enterprise you dream of getting an apprenticeship. It is not even up to the head of the Children’s Protection Institute to go down to the mechanical company and ask if you can make a long-term agreement on summer work, Christmas holiday work and apprenticeship – because you don’t know if you’re here in six months. It's part of the core of what makes it difficult to succeed with this. This is perhaps one of the major challenges we have in the field of child protection, too, that we are not giving young people the opportunity to plan life in the long term. Although we've all talked to 15-year-olds who don't know what they're going to be, there's a lot of 15-year-olds who know a lot more when you start asking them a little bit into the margin of what they won't do, and what they want to do. I think one of the key points in the reason that many people fall outside the system is that it's not possible to have this long-term, it's not possible to dream away about what you're going to be -- because maybe Mom's got her trouble fixed and in six months you're going back to her. Perhaps we should also look at many child-disciplinary approaches related to, for example: how many chances moms and dads are going to have, and how many times you're going to be able to tear kids up with the root, when they want to plan for the future. Another important challenge is the attitude of the school. On my trip around the child protection institutions they say very often that they have a good cooperation with the schools, that they think teachers take it as a challenge to get kids with a little extra ballast into the class, that they have a very open tone, and that many people think it works well. Getting the good cooperation between the institutions and the schools I think is an important key to success. I raised this issue in a question to the Council of State on 24 August, and I am very pleased that the representative of Hofstad Helleland has now taken this up in an interview, because it was a dramatically much better response from the Council of State today than what was in the written answer then. This is not just a formalistic question, it should not be a ‘puzzle mile’ between the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge. This is not about liability, nor about money – it's just about someone having to follow up on the responsibility they actually have, and follow it to the goal. There must then be no dispute between two departments, then there must be no dispute between state, municipal and county institutions. It's actually a responsibility to get these kids to school anyway. You have to have obligations, it must not lead to disclaimer, you have to have clear rules for what this is, because this is one of the keys to getting these kids on the right track later in life. You build a lot of skills during a child protection life on how to deal with a public support device — you get really good at it, you get really good at difficult conversations and really good at many other things. But it's actually also important that these kids get a ballast, so that they can survive in their professional life, pursue their dreams and pursue the knowledge they need to create a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e863	A few–three years ago, I met a representative of the Adult Children’s Association. He said a sentence that I'll never forget: «The weight from the failed, injured child to the disadvantaged, the intoxicated and sick adult is paved with strong research into the uniqueness of the relationship.» That means that if you're having a hard time as a kid, the risk of having a hard time as an adult is very high. The numbers and the research show that it is. It may not be so easy to concentrate on multiplication tables and German forms of bending if you're afraid, desperate and angry and don't even know where to live in six months – something the representative Skei Grande mentioned. Here are some major challenges in the lives of these kids, and that must be the starting point for what we do. I would like to say a little bit about what the representative Skei Grande raised – this with the security of child protection, which I think is absolutely crucial. That is why we and the Council of State Lighthouse have now tried to change the system and sought cooperation with non-governmental organisations. We have to get contracts that enable kids to be safe in their home. We have to get rid of the tender system, so that kids know where to live. I also fully agree that the assessment of how many chances parents will get, we have to go into – and it's working on – because it creates uncertainty that makes you unable to get your head into learning, I think. It's very important, perhaps more important to these children than to many others. I know, unfortunately, that people who have difficulties in their lives are stigmatized. It's about value sets that we others have, and that society carries with it -- that you're actually being excluded and looked down on, and at least not completely proud of, if you have social difficulties. It is a major cultural problem that needs to be addressed, including at school. Good training is important, that it has to be adapted to the individual. Then there must be cooperation within the school with the other institutions, which have been said, but also with others. For some periods you may have to find some other arenas to have training on, which can solve some bad knots that have come because you experience bullying, stigmatisation or being outside in the situation you're in. So it's a question of a little bit of the last thing that Skei Grande was into -- this is how you learn to go to social security. Some new reports have now been received that reject this. That's not what you learn – but you carry the same social problems, it's the social problems you have that you inherit. That means that these are the social problems we have to solve. I just want to show that when we dealt with the law on social services in Nav the last time, we added an extra sentence to the purpose paragraph that social services should take special account of children. We know that these children are also often in contact with social services. It is important, because young people can hardly promote this as demands and applications. We depend on some adults and an appliance there, who take care of it and ensure that the cooperation between all these agencies is both seen and done in practice. Several studies have been carried out on the state supervision of both the municipal services for children and young people and the social services, and they are unfortunately depressing, because this is not followed up in a close and good way, and that it is not ensured that these families are supported early enough to reverse a difficult life situation. In 2009, the Flatø Committee presented its report on better coordination of services for vulnerable children and young people. There's a lot of good suggestions there that I'm sure would improve the situation for children who need help from child protection in the future. Then there are a lot of numbers that indicate that the children who get child-restraint protection after they reach the age of 18 – there are a few other kids who don't get help from their parents after they reach the age of 18, most of them get it – and they may need to have something similar to a home to go to afterwards too, doing better than those who haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e885	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate for a very good debate on an important topic. There have also been many good contributions to the debate that I am sure the Council of State will take on board in its further work. I also think it is important for the Storting to debate this matter. It is important that we, as politicians, put this matter on the agenda, not least for the children concerned. I am very pleased with the study that has been carried out among child-restraint children, because that is exactly what gives us an opportunity to see how things are. At the same time, the work to be done by the county officials in the different parts of the country is important, so that we get an overview of the situation. This is, as I said, the first study that has been done, and I think it is important to follow up to see if there will be a change, and whether the measures put in will have any effect on these children. To the representative Aksel Hagen, who says it's a little creepy for him when he hears that we in the Right in our alternative state budget add up to $30 million. I want to reassure the representative that these funds should go to the children who have tried everything, where the system has tried everything, where the kids themselves have tried everything to fit into the common school, but where the child may be so traumatized that it is unable to relate to a school day, as all the other children are doing. Then the kids have to have a chance. Despite the damage that parents and their surroundings have done to them, we also have to give those kids a chance. There may be just some joinery work or in the workshop these kids have for a period the opportunity to acquire some of the knowledge they don't get through the ordinary common school that the other kids get. These funds are intended to be used for those young people who are in a difficult situation and who have tried everything to help them deal with a regular school day. Finally, I think it is important to mention to the Council of State that the right here hopes that there will be a very close and good cooperation between the two departments involved, namely the departments responsible for school and child protection – that there will be close and good cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e896	I think it has been an important debate. The children involved deserve the Storting to discuss what is their situation, because we know that many of them have a challenge with regard to schooling that is larger than that of other children. I want to smile at and stress that it's not about their potential for learning or their abilities being something like that for child-restraint children, and for other children it's like this, but that they have a demanding home situation, often much more changeable in their lives than the other child has, and that it's a demanding starting point for stability and security around learning. That's why it's very important what many people have been about, the conditions outside that school can offer some solutions, namely stability around the offers you get, that we be able to get good cooperation agreements with different child protection institutions, so that these aren't children who are out on the market all the time. But it is also about stability around the situation in relation to the rights of parents, that one – what to say – emphasises what is needed by children. It's probably something that several speakers have had to say, that for too long, a person has not seen children as independent subjects in situations where families are having a hard time, but that they've followed something that's arranged for adults. I am very careful to underline that starting point, because I think in some posts there have been some tendencies to say that these are children who have such a demanding starting point that they must be in the stable, they must be in the workshop, or they must have very special offers. What is crucial for all children is that they learn to read, write and calculate properly, because it is the basis and starting point for completing secondary education and standing strongly later. For this reason, it is essential for children with different starting points to be able to approach the drug they are going to learn in different and varied ways — not only for children, but also for all children. In addition, having a good learning environment is essential for everyone. You can imagine very quickly that if you switch schools and classes often, there are some special challenges in it. And of course, children under the care of child protection are entitled to exactly the same thing as all other children who need special education or specially prepared offers, namely, to get it. Members of all counties shall review the situation with regard to children living in institutions, both in view of the county and in view of the municipalities that may be required to provide primary education as part of those living in child protection institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e911	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e925	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e934	The case concerns a Document 8 proposal submitted by the representatives of the Christian People's Party, who want a decision in the Stortinget to have an escalation plan for the municipal music and cultural schools. They have not received support for this in the Committee. I still want to make some comments about it. First of all, I think it's great that the Christian People's Party has taken an initiative, so that we get a debate on music and culture schools, and that we can discuss where the state responsibility lies with the municipality. The government has very ambitious wording in its planning documents on how to do this, but it is well connected with local economy, as noted in the vote. The cultural schools are not something that was invented in this room. Cultural and music schools were invented many decades ago by committed local politicians who fought this offer at local level. There are no national politicians who can take credit for having a good network of cultural and music schools around the country. The cultural and music schools have a character that makes them different from other schools. It's that they need access to artists and professionals who are a little different than teachers who have gone through normal teacher education. Music and culture schools are very different around the country because different artists have accentuated different artistic expressions. Having large educators located in different places around the country has led both to young people moving after them and to the fact that, logically, the offer is different – different artists are burning for different offers. In some places the cultural school is quite limited, because there are also many entrepreneurs in the cultural field who offer young people, both through voluntary organisations, through the network we have of school music corps, or through all the small theatre institutions on a voluntary basis that we have around the country. But we also have professional artists who build cultural offerings for kids and provide school offerings in theatre, music and dance. All of this in context constitutes the network and the offer we give to our kids. Because of the diversity of peripheral zones, the offer in each municipality is also different. Vestre Glidre, for example, has incorporated the entire music and cultural school into the school offer. There it forms part of the SFO offer, which means that almost all students in that municipality go to music and cultural schools, with different offers. But it is also a municipality with strong artistic environments, especially related to folk music, which has attracted artists who can help to be educators in this field. So the offers are very different. The offerings are mostly local, and the offers are based on the local artist’s offer. Then it's the local economy that provides a framework for price, for how widespread the offer is, and for how many kids actually get space. So I'm afraid this is also going to be a debate on local economy. But making a state escalation plan right now we don't think that's the grip that's needed. Action is needed in the area of municipal economy, but it is essential to support, above all, all the local politicians who want to participate in the development of this offer. This cannot be done by means of state directives; it must be done primarily by developing a local cultural life based on volunteering, on artists and the cultural foundation that exists in each local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e953	The president pointed out that the so-called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Kjell Børre Hansen, has now taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e956	Thank you to the President-in-Office, Trine Skei Grande, for a very useful and good review of the cultural school. It's quite clear that it's incredibly good. I think we should all wish that what is happening in this left-hand municipality must also happen in several municipalities. The government has a very ambitious commitment to culture. It is better known as the Cultural Promise II. Why the Cultural Promise II? Well, that's because we implemented and fulfilled the promises we had in the Cultural Promise I. In the Cultural Promise II we describe 17 main actions to be carried out until 2014. Point 2 on this list is cultural school for everyone. Paragraph 1 deals with the framework, namely that 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture by 2014. In Kulturløftet II we write that cultural school for all children who want it is the goal. A cultural promise is to be made so that all children who want it receive a quality and affordable cultural school offer. It must be ensured by state incentives, but also by a solid local economy. The development of a wider cultural school offer in connection with SFOs and schools is to be investigated. There shall be spaces for the different organisation of the cultural school and provision shall be made for the visualisation of the cultural school and the development of talent. Like the case rapporteur, I think it is very positive that the Christian People's Party is impatient, which takes up the cultural school and is ambitious on behalf of this and the children who want to learn more, but I think we also have a very ambitious government. This year, it's 40 million distributed by the state. New DKK for cultural school provision for 210 applicants, and this money is also a good contribution to a more diverse cultural offer for children and young people. It is, as the rapporteur says, the municipalities that are responsible for the music and culture school. As funding for the cultural school is part of the framework transfer to municipalities, the government’s main contribution is a solid municipal economy. In 2010, 280 million were spent. kr more in the municipal music and cultural schools than in the last year with direct transfers from the state. That means that we have a government that prioritises community over tax laws. So we've strengthened the municipalities by 43 billion. Since we took over in 2005, but it also means that we have municipal politicians – local politicians – who give a strong, stronger priority to the cultural school than they did before the responsibility was transferred. There is a lot of good work going on in Norwegian cultural schools. It's a goal that anyone who wants to be able to participate in the cultural school. Like the idea of a common school for everyone, a cultural school for everyone is about the participation of all children, regardless of their background. It's important that the entrances to the cultural school are wide, and I think that the cultural school is a very good way to reach the maximum possible number of children and young people. It is not stated that Norway’s next great musical talent comes from a home where culture and music are cultivated. These may be personal interests that children find and in which they should be given the opportunity to develop, even if conditions are not necessarily appropriate for them at home. In the Labour Party, we believe that school leisure arrangements with physical activity, play and homework should be part of the school day. We aim to strengthen the cultural promise and have arrangements to ensure that everyone can participate. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that we facilitate the provision of cultural education through the SFO. I respect that the Christian People's Party is impatient, but this is a government that has the habit of delivering promises. We have not said that this promise should have been fulfilled in 2011. Our goal is to work on this until 2014. We carried out the cultural promise I, we have delivered full child care coverage, we have overfilled the national transport plan, and this government also gives 1 pst. of GDP in aid, which has also been a very important issue for the Christian People's Party. We're going to meet the Cultural Promise II. I believe that if the Christian People's Party is really concerned with culture and volunteering, in the future they will also be looking at the red-green parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e975	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review. I want a living cultural life with the least political governance possible. I also want a strong volunteer in Norway, and I see that a good cultural school in the municipalities can be a good contributor to this. All culture should not be governed from Oslo, it has been said several times – including by me from this pulpit. We see that the Culture Council is getting stronger and stronger. We see that the Cultural Council is becoming more dominant in Culture-Norway. The big money bag of the Council of Culture rarely benefits the municipalities, rarely benefits the whole country, rarely reaches the whole width and rarely reaches the young people across the country. Culture School can help with recruiting a corps. Imagine a May 17 without a corps, the most important part of our cultural heritage, at least one of the most important! It is also possible to consider merging corps and knowledge of corps instruments into music education at school. Culture is a broad concept that embraces everything that characterizes the nation and the people. That's the result of the choices and values you've gathered about, both spiritually and materially. It's an important task to protect our cultural heritage. Much of the well-being of most people is linked to experiences in the cultural field. Locally in the municipalities, there are many professional artists, teams, associations and individuals who make an excellent effort to offer a variety of cultures. The cultural school is an important contribution there, but unfortunately most people experience that there are long queues, long waiting lists, and that it is only for the few – at least it can work like that. Continued voluntary efforts need to be encouraged, and therefore we will be positive about the possibility of closer interaction between culture, municipalities and cultural schools. A living cultural life in rural and urban areas is of great importance in terms of well-being and quality of life. This enriches the community, gives unity, well-being and belonging. We have introduced the cultural school bag in Norway. It's good. The problem with the cultural school bag is that it is not voluntary for the children. We adults can choose which cultural offer we want to watch, but the children are forced to see what happens at school by chance. I think we should have the cultural school bag, but we should discuss the content and freedom of choice of the children who receive that cultural offer. A cultural arena is a space that unites people. Only by extension of the cultural school can more people participate in both the creative and the exciting part of the art. Cultural life should be extended to the cultural arenas that accommodate more people in order to achieve greater value and experience. The cultural school can be such that it will give ring-effects to new arenas such as: cross-country houses, community houses, cultural houses, community facilities, school buildings, cafes, restaurants, libraries, museums, concert halls, theatres, cinemas, opera houses, squares, etc. That's where the cultural school should be at the center. Priority must be given to the allocation of public cultural resources to children and young people. Then the cultural school is an important actor to reach its breadth across the country. Diversity is important, framework conditions will play a central role if diversity is to continue to flourish. The focus on interaction between the voluntary sector and professional actors is a prerequisite for growth in the cultural sector. This will in the long term produce the most lasting ring-effects both for culture and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e998	Thank you to the rapporteur on the matter and thank you to the rapporteurs, who are raising an important issue, even if we do not follow them to the ends and vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward. On the right, music and culture schools are a very valuable offer for children and young people across the country. It is positive, as the proposers do, to focus attention on this important part of local culture. The overall objective of the right in cultural policy is the desire for a free and diverse art and cultural life. It is important to stress that cultural life must be able to live its own life and not be governed in detail by the great state. This is also a prize tip we believe it is important to use when it comes to the possibilities of municipalities to design their music and cultural school offerings. Culture and language are the basis for identity and belonging, but also a means of understanding the culture and religion of others. Right-wing people want a diverse and varied cultural life, where there is as much opportunity to participate and contribute as possible. The music and cultural schools play an incredibly important role here and represent an arena of how many children get their first meeting with cultural life. And they're lucky to meet, many places, very professional, engaged teachers who really give them great inspiration for what they're doing. Culture School is an experience venue for many children and young people, where they are allowed to start and develop their new skills. It's also an important arena to give children an equal opportunity for cultural activity and to develop their artistic, special skills. In addition, the music and culture school is an exciting recruitment venue for what is the culture of the future. We see many examples of that already, and I think we have a lot to wait for when we see how well it grows, and how much good work is done in the local music and cultural schools. It is almost that it has become obvious that the municipalities have an offer and extend incredibly far to both keep alive and develop the music and culture school that they have started. There are also a lot of proud rapporteurs who pick up entries from the music and cultural schools when they have events in the municipality. We see that this is happening very well. The right is concerned with strengthening the good work done in the music and cultural schools, and we believe that exchanges of experience between municipalities can further contribute to adding new avenues to the quality of the offer provided. I find it encouraging to see how well the municipalities have also become cooperating in the field of talent development. The music and cultural schools are undoubtedly central arenas for talent development, and when we look at what has happened to Youth's cultural model, it has become an event that is an expression of the talent factory that the music and cultural schools actually are. I think, and at least I'm experiencing it at home at Troms, that youth's culture model gives a further inspiration and creates a further desire from more people to be part of the local cultural and music school offering. I also think that the good cultural school offer can be even better if we also allow ourselves to think a little bit new, and if we could even more facilitate cooperation with other established cultural actors. We think it can contribute to greater diversity, and that, as I said, it can further contribute to inspiring. Maybe we could also in this way take care of small artistic and cultural expressions and some traditions that are dying, but where we see that the music and cultural schools can actually play an important role. Many municipalities are concerned to take care of their local peculiarities through the music and cultural schools. They must be allowed to do that. Therefore, it is important that, although we have a state framework around this, within those frameworks there must be a great opportunity for the music and cultural schools locally to cultivate the local characteristic, to cultivate and take care of local culture, and to cultivate and disseminate local history. I just want to finish by saying that it's doing a lot of good local work to strengthen the music and culture school. I'm pointing out that, for example, Sandne's municipality became the cultural municipality of the year precisely with the reason that they were so good at involving children and young people in the local cultural work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1026	I believe that the state budget is too bad for the municipal music and cultural schools. But that's what we were able to do within the framework we had at our disposal, or – rather – that we set ourselves. In many municipalities, but certainly not in all, the municipal budgets will also be too bad in the autumn. It's stupid, because, as many people have been in, cultural schools are quite as good at themselves – for those who get such stimulation and such education to get good at something and master something they're happy about. In addition, there is no doubt that cultural schools spread a lot of joy and warmth and provide good experiences in the communities they operate. It is also important to note that cultural education is a good social development work and not least industrial development work. The number of jobs in the arts and culture sector is increasing. The cultural school often also plays an important role as a kind of glue, a bond, in local cultural life, for example. cooperates well with the school corps. And finally, and it's especially important to me: in many municipalities, a person has developed a good cooperation between school, SFO and the cultural school, and then it really starts to swing. Vestre Slide has been mentioned here, Sandnes has been mentioned, and the year before it applied to the Mountain Municipality. It is a bit bitter for an SV to admit it: it was a progressive party-driven municipality that became the cultural school municipality in 2010! It just shows that the cultural school is strong. There are so many who are happy in it, and who are able to bet on it, a little independent of the kind of debates we have here in the Chamber – at national level. We must build on this cooperation. But for someone who thinks that both the SFO and the school are well served to establish closer cooperation with the cultural school, I should stress two things: first, it should not destroy or disrupt the cultural school's own identity and the ability to have an activity other than that of the school and the SFO. At the same time, one should also ensure that this does not deprive the school of the important task of building its own artistic and cultural environment. The cultural school shall not enter and cover it all, but it shall enter and achieve a good cooperation, a good interaction between cultural school and school. The cultural school initiative report of 7 September 2010 shows in a very good way the way forward and upwards in this field, both for the cultural school itself and for the cooperation between school, SFO and cultural school. To move on, I think we're going to do similar development work on school and SFO. Truls Wickholm was a little bit concerned with the ambitions of the Workers' Party and, as an absolute SV, about developing a comprehensive school, a whole school day that becomes a kind of full-time school offer. It must have all the ‘school’ itself, but in addition it must be filled in with activities such as: sport and cultural activities. To get that concept written up and let the meeting meet the good that has happened when it comes to writing up ambitions in the cultural field, I think will be an exciting mix. Then I have already said that I believe that the state should try to get stronger in order to inspire and lubricate such a development. But I also absolutely belong to those who believe that this should primarily be a municipal activity, it should belong to the municipal portfolio, which is also very clearly stated in the Soria Moria statement. Then we are quick to think about – you see in this debate as well – the classic debate that we have between the state and the municipality, about who should be blamed most when an activity does not get the scope and content of it that an ideal set of things could want. What I would like to say – and recommend – is that this must be an excellent theme to include in the meetings between the KS on the one hand and the government on the other, so that a common member can raise this on the agenda. It's a little bit more demanding, because here there are maybe three departments that have to come into the picture to coordinate the state work. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge are clearly pointing out. But as this is largely about the municipalities, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs must also play an important role in the further state work to make this activity as heavy, wide, exciting and important as we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1041	Let me start by saying that I share the wishes of the proposers for a larger cultural school offer and a broader cultural school offer for anyone who wants it. I come from a community where cultural activities are a central part of rural life. Corps, choirs, bands and amateur theatres engage widely among young people, children and adults, much thanks to the cultural school that introduces children for cultural activity sail if they had not initially intended to play clarinets or try bass guitars. When the cultural school addresses everyone, the threshold for trying out something new is lower. I actually think I had 18 out of 24 who signed up for the audition in the second class I had once, when the crew had a recruiting concert at school. I don't know how many of them still have, but some of them are, I think. The cultural school also has an impact on the professional part of cultural life. For a while back, I spoke to one named Ola Hilmen, who is originally from Valdres – not from West Slidre, but Nord-Aurdal – and is now one of those who feeds as a musician in Oslo, and is known from Valkyria Allstars. Hilmen told me that the offer at the local cultural school had a direct and decisive role to play in his choices. He actually emphasized it several times in the conversation that we had. I just want to underline what the case-rapporteur, Mr. Skei Grande, said about the professional artists in the community – how important they are. Frikar is another example from Valdres in this way. The importance of the cultural school both for individuals, as support and cooperation partners for voluntary cultural life, and for expanding the cultural capital of a community is great. The Government Parties have therefore set themselves high objectives for the cultural schools of the Cultural Promise II, which states that: ‘A cultural school promise shall be made so that all children wishing to receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price. This must be ensured through state incentives and a solid local economy. The development of a wider cultural school offer in connection with SFO/school is to be investigated. There shall be spaces for the different local organisation of the cultural school. Facilitating the visibility of the cultural school and the development of talent.’» We did this – well aware that the way forward would be demanding, with long waiting lists, and that many municipalities failed to keep prices down to an acceptable level. In addition, cultural school provision is very different from municipality to municipality. There is often a lot of talk about waiting lists and self-payment when the theme ‘Cultural School’ is up for debate. It's important, but for the cultural school to fulfil its full function, I think one must also be concerned with making sure that the offer at the cultural school is so wide that it appeals to everyone. With regard to the content and arrangement of primary school, I am concerned about giving all students a chance to succeed and to experience mastering. The same basic attitude I think we should have for the cultural school. As I was at the beginning, the cultural school provides a taste and an opportunity to try out ‘if this is something for me’. If you are interested in music, you are likely to visit the corps or start a band or join a guitar course. But the interest and talent for other cultural expressions where there is no offer through voluntary teams and associations may have to be induced by the introduction of children to it through the cultural school. In the same way as the development of secondary elective courses must take into account the different choices made by different pupils, the development of the cultural school must also respond to different interests. In these days, local politicians are striving to raise the 2012 budget. I travel a lot around and talk to different local politicians. A lot of people just take up the need to develop the cultural school and give more opportunities to unfold through it. I therefore believe that local politicians will extend very far in order to safeguard this offer and hopefully prioritize, so that the cultural school can develop further. In addition to helping to provide municipalities with a better financial basis, the government has also, as the proposers refer to, appointed a selection such as: should address the challenges and opportunities of enhanced cooperation between the cultural school, primary school and SFO, and suggest how different cultural school activities and other cultural activities can be better linked to the school day. The selection was asked to take a closer look at the quality, price and availability of the activities in order to achieve the objective of the Culture Plan II. I therefore believe that a good foundation has been laid for achieving the objective of a cultural school for all those who want it in an interaction between the state, the municipality, the voluntary sector and professional practitioners – for the benefit of young people and for the promotion of culture locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1070	None of us are sitting here, who have the credit that today we have a cultural school offer all over the country. It is as the case-rapporteur had in mind, fires that have driven the development of local communities. Even I was given the opportunity to be a student for ten years at Bjugn Municipal Music School when they started pioneering in a coordinated music experiment in the 1970s. Together with Trondheim and Sandnes, they were pilots who paved the way for the rest. The Christian People's Party has always been a driving force for the development of the cultural school, not least by working for the law enforcement of the offer. Then we've had and are about to implement a cultural promise. Here it's very good, and over the last few years it's spent about three billion. kr to the cultural sector above the State budget. Many good actions and cultural services have been supported. Nevertheless, there are some holes in this bet. Voluntary action has been promised against full VAT compensation. We saw in the budget for next year that there is a promise that only applies in the years when there is an extra good framework in the budgets. We see that cows get approx. Two of the entire cultural budget, even the singing voice is actually the only instrument we all have, and the choir movement is the second largest popular movement after the sport. We can also mention the reform of religious education, which the government does not follow, and a broad measure that goes to children and young people, where children and young people are allowed to develop themselves. At the end of the list, the cultural school, item No. 2 of the Cultural Promise. Here, too, there is no bet from the government, no money so that the promises can be fulfilled. Based on this list, a very close conclusion is that for the government, the cultural promise and the cultural effort are all about making us the audience. What's going on for the black holes in the government's cultural policy is that in terms of width, it's about allowing us to create ourselves, that we ourselves should be allowed to be executives, and that not least children and young people should have the opportunity to learn to create and practice art and culture. The Christian People's Party has proposed that we take that promise seriously, put it into practice and give everyone who wants it a good cultural school offer at a reasonable price. We have presented the plan requested by the Council of Culture Schools to implement it. Then the Christian People's Party must look at the red-green, it was said. Yes, we can do that, but what do we see when we look at the red-green in the cultural school area? We see no plan, we see no strategy to fulfill our own ambitions. So what's the answer? Yes, it is okay not to implement this in 2011. But what's the plan? What is the strategy for implementing this promise? Is it to be carried out, or is it not? When we look at the red-green in cultural school policy, we see one thing – we see a breach of promises. It is now said that it is an objective to implement this by 2014. Yeah, that's actually not what the Cultural Promise says. It says: ‘A cultural school promise shall be made so that all children wishing to receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price.’ I think it's $40 million. kr in stimulants. Yeah, it's $40 million. kr there, with clear leads – so clear leads that there are only certain models of the cultural school that can apply for this money, namely those who will go towards cooperation with the SFO. It's great for those who want it. There are other local models that cannot use those funds, and then one argues against an escalation plan that it will be a overgovernment of the municipalities. This is out of the question! Now it's time for the cultural promise to start reaching out to children and young people, now it's time for the cultural promise to start to be about all of us being able to learn how to create and exercise ourselves, not just be an audience. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1099	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1103	It is well deserved that the Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss the cultural school offer around, although there is a broad majority in the committee that it is a municipal responsibility, it is agreed that it has such a great significance – both in relation to children’s development, in relation to the cultural life of the municipality, in relation to identity and in relation to mastery in very many areas – that it is in its place that the Stortinget discusses cultural school policy in the context. We have been given the opportunity by the proposers in this matter. We're putting a lot of money on culture. The cultural school promise was the first cooperation that the three red-green parties started in the Stortinget, prior to the 2005 Grand Prix. Through the Cultural Promise, we have had a formidable increase in the appropriations for culture. I remember reading Anne Enger's biography, which came to me from a budget conference with a very modest increase in the cultural budget – I think it was 30 million. kr – and that was good news. There was a lot of money in many important cultural areas. But we're talking about completely different sums when we're discussing culture today than we did at the time. After the Cultural Promise I, which was followed by a dot and a dot from 2005 to 2009, we made the Cultural Promise II. In the cultural promise II, we were also committed to the cultural school, to see it as part of what was supposed to be the cultural promise. Therefore, cultural schools are now part of the Cultural Promise II – one of 17 points contained in the Cultural Promise II. I want to take a little look back. When, with effect from 2004, the Stortinge incorporated the funds for the cultural school into the transfers, and they were no longer earmarked, one party went against it – that was SV. So today's proposers have been involved in integrating cultural education resources into the community economy. From the SV side, there were two things we feared that time. One was that the municipalities would take advantage of the opportunity to cut cultural education funds. They didn't. It is the case that the funds for the cultural school are now higher than they were in 2003 — the last year with ear-marking — approx. 280 million. kr more. It was wrong – so far, and then we'll see how it goes on. The other fear was that prices would go up dramatically, and there we got right. In the context of inclusion, cultural school prices went up dramatically on average, and that means that cultural school provision in many municipalities today is a costly offer. Unfortunately, we also see that when we see the background of the students who go to the cultural school. There are largely pupils who have parents with education or special interests in culture. The objective of the formulations of the Cultural Promise II to make the cultural school offer so that all children who want it receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price has one major challenge. And that is: how are we going to make sure that this is an attractive offer for all children, regardless of their social background – not just for those who are most concerned with culture from before, or who have a educational background? That's why we're now focusing on the idea of the cultural school lift against the SFO and the school. That's because that's the arena where we know that we're reaching all children. That's where all the kids go. What we have now proposed – the 40 million. kr is part of the cultural school commitment for 2012 – is that we should ensure that the further development of the SFO is more clearly oriented towards a goal of enhanced cooperation between the cultural school, the primary school, the SFO and also the youth because we want to stimulate something that was very important in the position of the Culture School Committee, namely combined positions. There are several people here who believe that the basis for a good cultural school is that you have professional people who can teach at the cultural school. By the way, we provide a starting point for recruiting good people to pursue cultural education, and in cooperation with the SFO, we believe that this is a good start to realise our goal of giving all children an opportunity to attend cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1127	I have to say first that we are very pleased that there is so much agreement on the importance of a good cultural school offer for all children and young people, and that this can be an important master's arena for more children next to school and in cooperation with school. The challenge is that the letter to the Committee of the Governments stated that the main contribution the government had had to ensure a good cultural school offer was the good community economy. At the same time, it can also be noted that more organisations, including KS, has pointed out that there will still be a very tight framework for the local economy in the future. My question will be whether the Council of State sees that this can lead to a deterioration in the provision of cultural education in some places. How, if any, can one back up that such a development does not occur and that it does not become a balancing item for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1141	So far, I have to say that there has been – as I was in my post – a strong rise in cultural schools around the municipalities, and the appropriations have increased from when they were earmarked funds. So I'm absolutely sure there's a strong commitment to the municipalities for this. But we have a challenge in a world of financial crises around us on all sides of the world when it comes to putting in place a budget that is making the right decision. It is clear that it has also made the framework for the local economy and all other parts of the budget tighter for the next year than it has been for a long time. It's important for the total economy. I think that local politicians will be concerned about maintaining a good cultural school offer. I hope that the means we have now put in to ensure more combined jobs around the world related to cooperation between the cultural school and the school can help strengthen the offer we can get locally, and prepare the basis for closer cooperation between the cultural school and the school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1148	To the historic reflection of the Council of State, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party said at the time the School of Culture was introduced into the framework, that we would follow the development. It has, as the Council of State said, shown that prices have gone up. But then the very point is that in retrospect it is given a promise, which is not a goal, which the Council of State has now repeated, but a promise. A cultural school lift is to be carried out so that all children who wish to do so receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price. Then I just want to ask: when you don't want a stepping-up plan, how will that promise be fulfilled in two years, until 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1157	That promise is to be fulfilled through closer cooperation between the cultural school and the school and by now supporting these combined positions related to the SFO, because we believe that if we are to succeed in achieving a goal of offering to all children who want it within a reasonable price, we must think in that direction. The Culture School is one of the 17 issues of the Culturallift II. We can't assume that one of the 17 points in the Cultural Promise II can capture all the spaces of action, especially when we now see that there is no majority in the United Kingdom to earmark the funds for the cultural school. Then we have to find some other ways to find these collaborative venues, and I think that's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1164	What is room for or not can be discussed, but in this year's budget there are 500 million fresh new crowns of cultural policy. So if you wanted to prioritize children and young people, there should be good space within the cultural promise to give cultural schools a boost. With reference to Anne Engers 30 million. After all, Culture School Norway would be very happy to have an increase of 30 million. kr, which this year is zero. So there should be opportunities. I just have to repeat my question. The Council of State again refers to cooperation with the SFO. To that it is said that the Cultural Schools Committee, as the Council of State itself put down, says that local variation and different solutions are needed in different places to achieve a cultural schooling effort. But who is going to pay the bill when the government won't put more money on the table? It's not going to be cheaper because it's going on within the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1171	I have to say that I am a little surprised at how high and dark it is possible to be in this discussion. That's right. That's 40 million. kr in the budget for the following year, which is for combined positions between the cultural schools and the SFO. It's not very many years since it was 30 million. kr in an increase in the entire cultural budget, which was party and joy. I would like to see when the budget of the Christian People's Party is presented, where else within the cultural promise they intend to take money to the cultural school. That might be interesting. The crucial thing to do is to think about money without regard — because there is no majority for it at Stortinget — to the cultural school, how to manage to get some structures at local level that make a sheep a good partner between the cultural school and the school. That's the way we can ensure that all children are introduced to the offer that the cultural school can give. That's $40 million. NOK a first start on it, and then I'll come back to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1178	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1183	I think that the cultural schools and the Cultural School Committee would wish we had had higher ambitions than the opportunity to debate this school team. It is nice to have good things debated, but for the cultural schools it is about getting good framework conditions, getting good quality and getting the opportunity to give an offer to all children. The councils were in on the story. Yes, and – as the representative Håbreek said – the Christian People's Party said at the time that we would follow that development closely. We have taken the idea and said that there are too many variations in the way the municipalities manage to prioritise. The peculiarities that have grown, and the queues that are so large, make us think that this should again be earmarked. Now SV has power in a majority government, and normally the council of state tends to be more offensive than just saying that here we don't get a majority. So I hope she doesn't give up the fight to keep fighting so that we can turn on what we did at the time. We in the committee had visits by an actor from the cultural school, named Lina Taule Fjørtoft. She won one of the dream tips in 2011, and she was an excellent example that getting a student board at the cultural schools would have been very exciting. The involvement of users, the influence of users, would include even more children and young people, both in democratic understanding and in influence. She also pointed to two very exciting projects that her cultural school had started. One was the talent project in Bergen School of Culture, which could perhaps be a substitute for the TV-talented education that children and young people are exposed to today, and which may have a strong feature of mainly hanging out people, more than just cultivating talents. In the field of cultural education, we can have an opportunity to launch small projects that allow us to find the really good talents without using TV as a background. But she also showed that with the cultural education campaign they wanted social cohesion. They had special projects in urban areas that had major social cohesion challenges, where they got this, but high proportions and long waiting lists make it incredibly difficult to get this done. My goal is that the cultural school should be for everyone – not just for those who have good advice. If we're going to make it, we need a completely different effort from the state to be able to get a variety of offers, and it's with sadness that I see that we may not get an impact on our proposal, but we're going to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1195	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1211	The churches in our country have great value both as the historical buildings they are in themselves, and as they contain great cultural monuments. It is also such that they are the focal point of the population and central to Norway’s Christian cultural heritage. Today, we are going to deal with the National Audit Office's investigations into the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings. The survey shows that both the State and the municipalities have increased efforts in the last five years to repair and secure Norwegian church buildings. The increased effort has produced results, but a large number of churches are still characterised by lack of maintenance and protection. The National Audit Office's report shows that the proportion of churches with some extensive maintenance deficiencies has been reduced from 48 pst. until 37 p.m., but still there are a significant number of churches that are characterized by lack of maintenance. 586 churches have been assessed to have unsatisfactory condition. 60 pst. of which, a total of 354 churches, are protected or deemed to have a special protection value. So it's a good deal to the goal. The situation has to be said to be worrying. Lack of regular maintenance often makes exceptional maintenance and repair more and more costly. There have sometimes been both fires and thefts from our churches. The National Audit Office's report shows that fire and theft protection of church buildings has generally improved, but that 17 pst. construction is still poorly secured. Especially unfortunate is the fact that half of these are peaced or considered particularly protective. Lack of security may result in the loss of irreplaceable cultural values. Everyone in this room is aware that the economy in many municipalities is tight. We understand that it is a challenge for municipalities to be able to operate even maintenance over time. Some municipalities are struggling more than others. It is pointed out here that while several church buildings have been restored in the last five years, the report shows that the state of many churches in the same period has not been maintained and that the state has become worse. The stave churches are a central part of our cultural heritage. The State has launched its own stave church program to put all the stave churches in good condition in the country by 2015. This, of course, is positive. It is an objective that all peaceful church buildings should have an ordinary level of maintenance by 2020. In the vote, a joint committee asks the government to consider targeted measures also for the other churches that are protected by the Cultural Memory Act, and to give the Storting feedback on this. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs considers the report of the Riksrevision to be relevant and useful in the further work on the subject. The Ministry is drawing attention to the fact that developments are moving in the right direction and that much has been done in a short time. However, the Ministry acknowledges that in recent years it has become aware that the maintenance of many churches has been too weak over time. The Committee has also taken note of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in the matter. The National Audit Office calls for the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs, in consultation with other departments, to consider developing measures for all the peaceful churches, as has been done in the administration of the stave churches. In this respect, the Ministry points out that there has been a tradition of the administration of churches at a local level and that diluting them may help to make the division of responsibilities between local and national levels unclear. The National Audit Board agrees that unclear responsibilities may weaken the maintenance and protection of church buildings. However, the National Audit Service considers that church buildings are so important for Norwegian cultural heritage that the State must have a special responsibility to follow up the maintenance of buildings. The National Audit Office believes that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs must ensure that the municipalities take their responsibility, and if necessary the Ministry must take further action when the maintenance responsibilities for the churches are not properly taken care of at local level. The majority of the Committee, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, take note of the views of the National Audit Office and consider that this issue should be the subject of further discussion. The majority believe that the municipalities should continue to have the basic financial responsibility for the operation and maintenance of churches, but that according to the responsibility for cultural memories with national value, the State should contribute the necessary State resources for a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches. Otherwise, reference is made to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1239	I would also like to thank the case spokesperson for a very good review of the case. I agree with him when he says that it is important for our cultural heritage that the churches are taken care of. It is important to preserve history, to facilitate good use in the future, for communities, and it is important for the nation. In the last five years, the state and the municipalities have increased their efforts to renovate and secure Norwegian church buildings. Increased effort has given result. As the case-speaker mentions, the part of churches with some extensive maintenance deficiencies is reduced from 48 pst. to 37 pst., but still there is a little bit left to do. There is a lag that extends over several decades, and the ministry in its response points out that developments are moving in the right direction and that much has been done in a short time. It is sokna in the Norwegian Church that they are the owners and managers of construction, while the municipalities have the financial responsibility. This arrangement is in the best interests of church life, community and building security in the future. The increase in the number of municipalities in the last few years makes them much better equipped to solve this problem. In addition, over several years the Ministry has had a special focus on the church building field. In financing state reports, so that you can identify the need and see where you need to put your effort first, a number of measures could be put in place. For church building owners who have significant maintenance delays, the interest compensation scheme is a good tool. As there is no requirement for borrowing in order to get back to the scheme, it facilitates local investment costs. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre point out that the general strengthening of the local economy and the targeted measures against church buildings that the Ministry has seen, as well as the Stave Church Programme, have produced good results for continuous maintenance in a short time, as its report also shows. The party believes that these schemes will lead to more of the good developments we've seen, and better results for future maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1250	I think it is right to both thank the case rapporteur and start with what is positive, and it is true that, since 2005 and until now, there has been a positive development in which the state and the municipality have increased efforts in terms of the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings. However, the Riksrevision states that there is a lot to be done. The most serious thing in my view is that it is in churches built before 1650 – i.e. churches that are automatically peaceful – in this type of church, one finds the largest proportion of churches with unsatisfactory conditions, the whole 41 pst. Lack of maintenance over time can become a very costly affair. The example of Oslo Cathedral, mentioned in the case, just shows that. Lack of plans and priorities also makes it difficult to operate even maintenance, which can also be very costly over time. It is also pointed out that the lack of competence in the maintenance of such old buildings could lead to an increase in the risk of inadequate quality and timely maintenance, which in turn could lead to increased maintenance costs and loss of important cultural memories. In Norway, we do not have very many castles and citizens that stand as historic signal buildings, as we find in many other European countries. But we have many churches, many of them very old churches, and they stand there as important sources of our common cultural history. That's what the Council of State says in its answer: «The professions convey knowledge about the Christian cultural heritage, about the life of trust and trust, they are among the most important symbolists of the city's culture and identity, which is strongly evidenced by the reactions of a church fire. [[...]] Ensuring the church building for the future is a major and important task.’ Of course, I fully agree with that. KA has estimated that 10 billion. kr must be added to the table in order to resume the detention in respect of the maintenance of churches in Norway. No matter how much one argues that the municipalities have increased their framework since 2005, we know that this is the sum of the municipalities alone cannot bear and grant. When we also know that the municipal debt has reached historical heights, the possibility of prioritising the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings in many municipalities is limited. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that the state needs to be stronger on the ground. We agree with the Riksrevision that the state must have a special responsibility to follow up the fact that the churches are kept in good condition. The Ministry must ensure that municipalities take care of their responsibilities and, if necessary, take further action when the maintenance responsibilities for the churches are not properly taken care of at local level. In this way, the ministry is also helping to reduce the risk of more churches burning down to the ground or rotting. The Christian People's Party believes there is a need for stronger action to restore the churches. In our alternative budget for 2012, we propose to increase the interest-free lending framework by 500 million. NOK 17,5 million. kr to central measures for church buildings. When it comes to maintenance – we know that these are very old buildings – you need, of course, to have competence, to have knowledge of old crafts tradition. The Municipal and Management Committee was on a committee mission to Vestfold, and we were among others. into Holmestrand municipality. There you are in the process of renovating Holmestrand Church – a very old building, too. There we met some young carpenters who had been trained in the work that had to be done there. When asked if they thought this was an interesting problem, there was an unisony yes. But when this church is finished refurbished, these young carpenters go back to their usual work, and my question is, how can we manage to maintain the old craft tradition? Many of these craft traditions are dying out. Here we have to have an offensive, so that we can maintain a tradition that actually helps to enable us to take care of old buildings as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1272	It is important that the National Audit Office points out the need for us to improve the maintenance of our church buildings. There is at all something poor about the fact that many of our church buildings are being poorly cared for. It shouldn't be like that. At the same time, it is clear that church buildings are not only culturally historicly important buildings, but they are also collection rooms that are important for prayer, for reflection and for our many solemn ceremonies. The centre party agrees and strongly supports the ownership and management of the buildings. It's the best ownership of both church life and community, but at the same time, we're happy that the department has a focus on how it evolves. It is clear from experience that, in municipal administration and in municipal priorities, it is easy for the maintenance and protection of church buildings to lose out on the competition for scarce financial resources. That's why we in the Center Party and the government are very happy that we've got a reinforcement of the interest-rate compensation system, for better care of church buildings. I asked for the word to point out a key point, namely that this lack of priority for the maintenance of church buildings in the municipal administration is also linked to the fact that it is maritime in the local government that there are representatives with different religious beliefs. It is also helpful that in some municipalities we have not received the necessary meeting on the prioritisation of the maintenance. Therefore, it is so important that both government, state and local authorities facilitate life-vision-neutral spaces in the municipalities, so that everyone can meet their needs for space in that context. It will also provide a broader part-political welcome to the maintenance – and upgrading – that is. I hope that we can get a greater community in that area, which will be of benefit to all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1281	I am pleased with the focus that both the Riksrevision and the Control Committee have had on the Riksrevision's study of maintenance and maintenance of church buildings. I am pleased with what was said by this speaker, that one has noticed that there has been a significant increase in effort, from 285 million. SEK in the municipal sector in 2005 to SEK 766 million. kr in 2009. So that's an increase of 481 million. kr in the prioritisation of the maintenance by municipalities. Then it's up to the state to contribute to a knowledge base, and we've done that by carrying out several extensive reviews of church buildings, so that you now have knowledge of what's missing, and that you can start action that's right. Then I've also registered that the majority of the control committee says that we should ‘contribute with the necessary State resources for a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches’. I have to say that it was with a certain interest I read the statement from the Finance Committee, to see how this had materialized there, but I was quite disappointed. I didn't find much about it in that setting. From our point of view, we will follow up on the big deal negotiated in 2008, that it is the municipal level that will have the primary responsibility for funding the local church and maintenance. So just one comment – that's why I asked for the floor – to the representative Bekkevold's idea of how important it is to take care of the small crafts. As a Nordic Minister of Cooperation, I am well aware that on the Nordic side, there is work to get a good division of labour on how to work with the small and exterminated crafts. It was not long ago that a report was delivered to the Minister of Knowledge on how this division of labour should be. I think that's an important job, because these are demanding jobs. Very often – if you do not have the necessary knowledge – things can be done wrong and have to be done again. I would also like to recall the considerable competence of Nidaros Domkirke's restoration work, which also contributes to the knowledge of the maintenance of many of the stone churches in Norway. It is an impressive work that takes place at the restoration work of Nidaros Cathedral, and many communities benefit from the knowledge developed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1301	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1317	Building in health care establishments is in proper condition, is very important for our public health system as a whole. It's important for patients, it's important for them to add, and it's important for our common security. The National Audit Office has examined the state and maintenance level of the building mass of healthcare professionals. They find that according to the Norwegian standard for supervisory analysis of construction works, half of the total building mass has symptoms of poor technical conditions. Health care professionals took over construction and equipment for 66 billion. kr when the hospital reform was introduced, and the value up to 2009 has risen by 13 billion. kr. The National Audit Office's investigation describes today's upgrade needs. No specific studies have been performed to show the development of the upgrade need after the enterprise reform. There will always be different modes on the building mass as it is not listed at the same time. However, all constructions in all enterprises must at any time be in such a condition that there will never be any harm to the provision of treatment or to their ability to perform their job. Fortunately, the national audit does not point to such a case. On the other hand, it was found that there is a need for upgrading, and there is a joint committee that expects healthcare professionals to work to develop objectives and plans for the building stock and also the economic priorities within each region to produce more positive results when it comes to continuous maintenance. Several health professionals point out that localisation is part of an investment plan and/or local replacement of new buildings. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre therefore welcome the fact that most health professionals have developed a maintenance plan, and those who have not developed it are in the process of doing so, and that some work has also been undertaken in the health regions of the construction and property areas to improve the information and planning base. Patients and adding their needs for functional and operationally efficient buildings are a very important element in ensuring good resource use. There is a joint committee which expects that the national project now under way to classify hospital area will contribute to efficiency by achieving the same by comparing land distribution and land-to-production measurement. So the job of strengthening the maintenance where it needs is going on, and there's nothing to suggest that that work won't produce results. The National Audit Office has also commented on the way health care professionals decide on investment projects. It is a joint committee which points out that the Ministry, in the form of a letter to regional health care providers, has provided guidance on how to carry out the early phase planning of investment projects. However, there are requirements to implement an intermediate phase, what is called the ‘design phase’, where alternative investments are assessed on the basis of different options selected. In 2006, a counsellor for precisely such an early-stage planning in hospital projects was developed to contribute to effective and targeted planning with enhanced quality. The National Audit Office’s findings state that the director has contributed to the establishment of a common early-stage planning system for hospital projects, and that this has led to a better decision-making basis. The National Audit Office's findings also show that all the draft reports examined have been used by the director for planning purposes. That's good, and it shows that one has a development in this process and has also had it further after the Riksrevision presented its report. The studies show that the actual choice of deployment options is largely made before the finalisation and analysis of the options in the design phase. The Riksrevision study also points out that they believe that some of the company's economic analyses of some projects are weak. In its reply, the Ministry states that ‘the structure of responsibility and decision-making for investment projects in health enterprises is not the same as in government-owned projects’, and they have done so in writing on several occasions. Several concept reports are presented in health services, and decisions are drawn after the last report, where the selected option is presented in full width. There is a joint committee that sees that the development, location and selection of hospital facilities are a subject, which in every case has a long history, and that there are many more interests and areas one must take care of than measurable business variables that form the basis of a decision. Nevertheless, a joint committee stresses the importance of developing a precise basis for decision in such processes as the Ministry is in the process. The Committee therefore meets the four-year test period with an external quality assurance of the concept phase arrangements in healthcare establishments. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre mean the measures taken by the Department to get the maintenance work up-to-date and quality assurance decision-making processes in health care establishments, will give the positive results that the National Audit Office is asking for. By doing so, I recommend the setting presented by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1349	The case rapporteur has explained some of the main features of this case. But since there is a setting that is not unanimous on some points, I would like to add some comments. The disagreements in formulations can be seen to be about the seriousness of the situation. The opposition in the Storting has gathered on a sharper warning of conditions than it may seem that the government parties are. The majority of the Committee, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in their comments, point out that significant parts of the building mass of health businesses are in too poor a technical state to meet today's requirements. About half of the building mass has severe symptoms of poor condition. The National Audit Office’s study also shows that there is a major need for building upgrade, as parts of the building stock are not suitable for current operations. 20 pst. the area has poor functionality and is not adapted to health production. It is very important that the area of health establishments has good functionality. The need for functional and operationally efficient buildings of employees is an important element in ensuring good use of resources. The majority of the Committee considers that it is very unfortunate that significant parts of the hospital sector are characterised by poor maintenance. The building mass of health enterprises must be adapted to health production in such a way as to contribute to the rational exercise of operations. The national audit also shows that the state of the building stock has deteriorated in recent years. According to health businesses, this is due to a down-priority of preventive maintenance. There is reason for concern when the public does not maintain the community's properties by maintaining a level playing field. Lack of regular maintenance often makes refurbishment and exceptional maintenance increasingly costly. In our view, state authorities must be aware of their responsibilities and ensure that maintenance responsibilities can be properly taken care of. The solution must be both immediate and long-term. It's bad socio-economics to let properties fall due this way is so far. The majority believe that the report shows that there is a need for a comprehensive funding plan for the maintenance and upgrading of hospitals. It goes without saying that the loss in value is increasing for every day expected with the necessary investments. At the same time, the majority believe that it is important that the necessary investments are not withdrawn from patient treatment. In a special note from the Progress Party, it is pointed out that the hospital sector’s tight economy explains some of the current situation. It is obvious that the indebtedness of hospitals is very stressful. I would also like to take into account that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in one of their comments, not only promises that the decision-making basis for new hospital buildings is not good enough to ensure realistic building projects, but also the problem of unrealistic expectations for possible profit-making realities. We expect realistic plans to be taken into account when planning such large-scale construction projects. Experience shows that it takes time for profit to be expected and that these can only be expected after new construction and reorganization have taken place. The rapporteur is also very thorough about the quality assurance of new buildings at the end of his post, so I will not elaborate on it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1377	I refer you to the statements made by the President-in-Office. It was opaque, except for two points. Point 1, it didn't deepen why majority and minority, i.e. opposition and government parties have a different description of reality based on the report of the National Audit Office. Point 2, the National Audit Office's report says nothing about the relationship between building quality and patient safety. So I'm going to come back to that. Let me add that the latter is not a criticism of the Riksrevision, because this has not been the aim of the report, and perhaps it is not the highest competence in the Riksrevision either, but possibly in health companies. I want to quote from the vote by the majority, which represents the opposition in Stortinget. The majority considers that: ‘It is very unfortunate that significant parts of the hospital sector are characterised by poor maintenance and will highlight the need to adapt the building mass of health establishments to health production in order to contribute to the rational exercise of operations. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that the condition has deteriorated in recent years. According to health businesses themselves, this is due to a down-priority of preventive maintenance’. When the government parties do not want to be part of this description, which I believe has its coverage in the National Audit Office's report, there is reason to ask three questions: Do the government parties really think that bad maintenance is not bad? Do the government parties disagree with the Riksrevision that the situation has deteriorated? Do the government parties disagree with health businesses that there has been a down-priority of preventive maintenance? If the Council of State answered these questions, it wouldn't be a problem either. It's at least an area where it's dangerous to paint, and it's in the health sector, because it can be quite dramatic. I am aware that this report does not concern Oslo University Hospital in particular, we come back to a debate on that matter. However, building quality has been a theme of this merger – or perhaps it has not been a theme of the merger decision. That's why I have two questions for the Council of State. I start with a quote from what the government parties say in the setting: ‘However, these members expect all constructions in all enterprises to be in a position at all times to avoid any loss in the provision of treatment.’ Will the Council of State from this pulpit ensure that this is the case, that it does not go beyond the treatment offered at Oslo University Hospital? And question 2 -- I start with the following quote: «The Committee» – and that is when the Joint Committee, naturally – «remarks that the study shows that the actual choice of development options is largely made before the studies and analyses of the alternative proposals in the design phase are available». When this merger process at Oslo University Hospital has gone wrong, it is in the opinion of the Council of State that what is described here was actually the case, i.e. the decision to merge before analysing, among other things. the building basis for it as part of the costs? I want to elaborate on this by pointing out that the company Multiconsult in May this year delivered a crushing state report of the building mass at Oslo University Hospital. The situation became even more dramatic when, following an inspection on 18 July of this year, the Labour Inspectorate issued extensive instructions and recommendations on repairs. This information is from the Business Life of today, November 3rd this year. Later, Multiconsult calculated the Labour Inspectorate's order of 8.7 billion. kr. So this is equivalent to the established director of Oslo University Hospital that he “does not think it makes sense to spend eight to nine billion dollars on repairing old houses”. The quotation is from the same newspaper. My question to the Council of State is then: Does the Council of State also support the view that the directive of the Labour Inspectorate should not be followed up, as the Director of the University Hospital, at that time at least – he is still well constituted after what I have managed to get with me – here in fact says? In addition, I would just like to point out that the Multiconsult's May report estimates that 55 pst. by the building mass throughout Oslo University Hospital is unsatisfactory or unacceptable for hospital operations. Is the Council familiar with this report? Or will she also close her eyes in this matter and show that this is a responsibility for others than the Council of State? It could in the long run be a difficult line of defense, at least in my opinion. Finally, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on most comments. But I heard that the spokesperson of the Progress Party said in his statement that the Progress Party has on a number of occasions been in favour of indebtedness at health companies. Let me add, as a reason why we haven't agreed, that it's an unusually bad way to run economic governance by making health companies pay off debts, and then cancel it. When you do it outside of normal budgetary practice, it gets even worse. But as a control signal, such deletion is due to an unusually bad signal. I am therefore pleased that these views have not been repeated in the setting as it is now available. That might be wise, to say it in a nice way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1422	This case is also about how public owners manage the properties for which they are responsible. I guess I don't take it too hard if I say that the main idea is that this isn't good enough, which we've also seen on several occasions examples of in the media. Then a question might arise as to whether it is due to a lack of sufficient appropriations or a lack of willingness to prioritize maintenance. The answer is probably a combination of both. In the present case, the National Audit Board has assessed whether the property mass of the specialist health service is effectively managed and developed in accordance with overall leadership. These include: set on the state, maintenance, development and land use of the properties the decision-making material of new buildings and the work on profit-making about the governance of regional health enterprises ensures appropriate and effective property management, and how the Ministry ensures such management; The result is in many ways discouraging. Around half of the building mass has symptoms of poor technical status, which has worsened in recent years, from 2003 to 2010. Although most health care establishments have developed maintenance plans, all planned measures are far from being implemented. The real need for maintenance is also greater than what appears in the plans. A quarter of health enterprises do not have accounting information on their annual use of maintenance, only three companies record the maintenance costs according to the Norwegian Standard, and only six carry the costs in such a way that the figures can be compared with previous years. These were just a few examples. The Christian People's Party thinks this is alarming. Nor does it improve the fact that the Riksrevision has also found that the decision-making basis for new hospital buildings is not good enough to ensure that proper and realistic construction projects are started. Often, specific solutions are tied up so early in the process that it limits the scope for action when it comes to finding alternative solutions that may be better. It is important that health professionals have a precise and sound decision-making basis to ensure optimal use of resources and to ensure qualified and good patient care, while building a decent working tool for employees. The requirements that are set at gains in terms of savings, etc. must be realistic. Conversions and conversions require time and adjustments. This must also be taken into account. Although several new hospital buildings have been built in recent years, a large part of the building stock in healthcare companies still has poor functionality and does not meet today’s requirements. It's quite clear that upgrades are needed. Health undertakings must ensure that this is the case. Regular and scheduled maintenance will help to avoid future shipper tax improvements and to save money on a long-term basis. It's not a good social economy to let properties fall due. Government authorities, including the Ministry of Health and Welfare, have a responsibility to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1449	I want to start by giving the representative Foss full justice that erasing debt is a very bad governance signal, I am – abnormally – very much in agreement with the representative Foss in it. That our hospitals are in such a state that there can be the necessary health care, is probably something we all take for granted. There are many parameters you can use to measure the evolution of a building mass, but that really don't say much about the technical state. On the other hand, the rate of investment over time says something about developments over time. The figures then say that it has been used well over the double in dollars per year from 2005 to now in relation to what was the case before the 2001 reform. This is probably also one of the reasons why the book value is now 13 billion. kr higher than it was in 2001 and that the real value of the building mass is, of course, much higher. I also want to mention that 20 pst. of the building stock was built after 2000, with 40 billion in the period 2003–2009. kr to invest in the building mass. All this points to a significant change in the pace of maintenance work, not least when compared with the 1990s, where around 3 billion were used. kr annually for maintenance and investment. How, then, can it be explained that the report points to a deterioration in the state of technology? I have no clear answer to that, and it is difficult to read out the report. But in this respect, I believe that the report has two weaknesses. The first weakness I want to point out is that the report is based on a present state, so that we have no professional basis to compare with how this has evolved over time. But, as I said, when you look at historical facts in relation to the allocation, there is reason to assume that the maintenance service has been significant. There is also reason to assume that this is now being re-established, as it reported the need after the Riksrevision study — to put 75pst. of the building mass in full condition again – now 19 billion. kr. The other factor I would like to point out is that several of the answers from the study refer to deliberate down-priorities, on the grounds that one should either invest according to a maintenance plan or to dispose of the building mass. I assume that this building mass is included as part of the whole when you have given feedback that the technical condition has become worse. In that case, it is not dramatic – if you have planned this in relation to a greater improvement or disposal of the building mass. Driving hospitals is dynamic work, because in this sector, technological and medical developments are raging to change building mass needs. Here you can see an increased opening time for outpatient treatment in the evening. The share of surgery now performed as a day surgery is increasing, leading to a lower need for area. Sintef made a report in 2006. They had done some research there and thought you could increase your capacity by 70 pst. increased outpatient treatment by from six to ten hours per day and from 230 to 240 days per year. We also have a centralisation of the population, which means that cities with surrounding areas get an increasingly large share of population growth. That's why it's good to now work on a national project to classify hospital space. This will allow for comparison of area with production, which in turn will lead to the development of best practice, in order to seek the best possible area efficiency. This will also contribute to a sufficient tool for the health region to carry out its coordination responsibilities as technological development, medical development and population development. Finally, I have noticed that there is an overall committee that has pointed to the four-year trial period with external quality assurance of the concept phase investigation in healthcare companies, mentioned in Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This will help to establish a precise decision-making basis in processes for deciding on large investments. I wholeheartedly support this comitology comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1470	When the country assumed responsibility for the hospitals in 2002, the construction and equipment of enterprises was valued and carried over. This gave us the opportunity to follow the development of the mass of construction and equipment, which was previously not possible. Construction and equipment was valued at 66 billion in 2002. kr, and by the end of 2009 the value had increased to approx. 77 B.C.E. kr. Thus, the value of hospital construction and medical equipment has increased. We've had several modern, upgraded and functional hospitals. At the same time, not everything is new, and everything is not well maintained. Although there are many people who want to upgrade and renew the building mass, not everything can be done at the same time. The building stock taken over by health enterprises in 2002 was of varying quality. There were comprehensive plans for new construction. Control and follow-up systems such as: important quality assurance, both in the planning phase and in the implementation phase of investment projects. Maintenance plans were also required and had to be seen in the context of initial investment plans. The state of the building stock today varies between regions, and also between hospitals in each region. There are comprehensive investment plans in all health regions, and we see a clear link between the level of investment and the state of the building stock. Based on the information I have from regional health companies, Health Mid-Norway has a building mass with an average state degree in line with the level of ambition set for the state of the building mass. Health Mid-Norway is also the region that has had the highest level of investment in the last period. Health North is the region which has the lowest average weighted state degree of the building mass. Health Nord currently has two major projects under implementation. This is the reconstruction and modernisation of the Nordlandssykehuset in Bodø and a new local hospital in Vesterålen. Furthermore, the construction of new A-fløj at the University Hospital Nord Norway for 2012 is planned. In addition, there are concrete plans for development both in Kirkenes and in Narvik. There are two factors that have had a particular impact on the development of investment and maintenance activity in Norwegian hospitals in the period up to 2009: Until 2008, there was an underlying efficiency requirement related to the building and equipment mass of hospitals because the income frameworks of health care establishments only provided room for reacquisition and maintenance of about two thirds of the building mass. Until 2009, there was a persistent deficit situation in hospitals that meant that there was not enough financial management. Control and control of resource use is essential in order to achieve the right priorities. This government has invested enough money to both reacquire and maintain the entire building mass, and we have generally strengthened the hospital economy and got financial management in order. Past efficiency requirements related to the building stock are gone and an annual revenue increase of 1.67 billion was introduced. kr from 2008 – to 5,5 brd. kr – so that it is possible to invest and upgrade into the basic frameworks of health establishments. This has enabled health enterprises to have a higher level of investment and, in particular, has provided a greater scope for action in terms of future investment rates and levels. The challenge of new building projects needs to be addressed in line with the overall migration challenges. Developments have been good in recent years. In 2009, regional health enterprises combined with positive results, and in 2010 all regional health enterprises had a surplus in their operations. We all know the challenges in the capital area. At the same time, we must not forget the rest of Hospital Norway, where hospitals not only balance but can also show positive results. This will make them more robust towards the future and will ensure continued development of specialist health services and more modern and functional hospitals in the future. So I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that came from the representative Foss. One is Oslo University Hospital. Then I just want to say that we have not received any messages that suggest that poor building mass has led to poor patient safety, but I very much agree that maintenance of the buildings needs to be maintained. It must be done within the operational budget. Upgrading and investment must be made within the resources made available to it — and in the case of investment — within the amount of loans made available when good and finished projects are in place. The report of the National Audit Office, as I understand it – in terms of this much-to-be delay, which is large – also does not take into account which part of the building mass is to be disposed of or which part of the building mass is to be renewed. I just referred to major innovations, especially in Health North. At Oslo University Hospital, we have now presented a project, which is part of a new building to gather emergency functions, with a framework of 1.5 billion. kr, which will be built in the next two years. There was also a reason for the conversion in Oslo University Hospital, just to look at which part of the building mass to use, and what part to dispose of. I very much agree that it is important that the work is done, so that in connection with the conversion you get disposed of, if necessary new buildings where there is a need for it. Then I would also say that there have been large sums spent in the capital area on new buildings in recent years. It doesn't prevent us from doing better where it's too bad. Once again, I would like to point out that health companies need to have good maintenance plans and implement them, because regardless of whether you need to invest a new one, you have to be in the premises when you build a new one, and there must be sound conditions both for patients and for those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1505	I noticed that the council said two things. In her general article – which I understood was written in advance – she said that during the period of this government, there was enough money given for maintenance. But this is not in line with the Riksrevision report, which shows that the maintenance maintenance run has increased during the period. So I would like to ask the Council of State to deal with the Riksrevision report, which is what we are dealing with. This isn't a normal protest debate of the usual kind, but we're dealing with the Riksrevision report. So the Council of State said in its reply to me that it has not been notified that the state of the building stock has compromised patient safety. When the Labour Inspectorate gives instructions and recommendations on improvements of the order of 8 to 9 billion. Does the Council of State consider that this has no connection with patient safety, in other words, just with the safety of the staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1512	When I comment on patient safety, I do it based on what messages we might have from the Health Inspectorate, based on the dialogue we have with the Health Inspectorate, in following up Oslo University Hospital and also the quality objectives of Oslo University Hospital, in line with everyone else. Then I want to say that when the decision was made to assemble the four Oslo hospitals, you knew what the condition was like. It is also clear that both upgrading and new construction had to be carried out over time. The first project we've been presented with is the new emergency building, which you'll start now. Then I'm not going to apologize for not doing the necessary operational maintenance, because I see it as part of having a business that you carry out. I believe that you also have to do that with Oslo University Hospital, and then you have to work quickly with the work that was also a prerequisite, which is to look at which buildings are to be used, and which are to be disposed of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1521	I understand that the Council of State is dealing with messages, but is not the Council of State more active in a process where we get so many messages that it doesn't work, yes, where also the county doctor actually recommends the Council of State as the owner of the hospitals to take – in order to use a popular expression – an “hour out”, i.e. stop the process, or reduce the pace of conversion, for patient safety reasons? When the Labour Inspectorate comes up with an order for improvements of between 8 and 9 billion. kr, will not the Council of State investigate on its own to see if this can be voted on? It's not in relation to a new building of 1.5 million. acute-side kr. There must be some magnitudes here that make the Council of State talk about a different reality than the reality that exists at today's OYS.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1527	I'm not talking about another reality – and yes, I'm actively entering and following up this transformation very closely. So if we were to take an hour out, we would be sitting with a building mass of four hospitals – a lot that will not be used in the future. After a large proportion of the patient base moved, for example, the merger and consolidation would have been stopped. from Acher to Ahus. This is extremely demanding, and I have a great deal of understanding that it is difficult to stand in the everyday life of Oslo University Hospital. The conversion that happens has to be done wisely, and then you have to pause where it's wise and right to do it. But sometimes in a process, it's not possible to just click the pause button. Then you actually have to do what you've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1534	The last thing I can agree with the Council of State. But if new information emerges, it is possible that the pace of the process should be adapted to reality. My question to the Council of State is quite specific: Is she satisfied that Oslo University Hospital is being operated without taking into account the instructions of the Labour Inspectorate? Is the Council of State also certain that it does not affect the patient safety of Oslo University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1543	You have to take into account all the oversight and all the impositions from them. I want to repeat that it is now very important to know which buildings and which buildings to continue in, and what is to be disposed of. There is a process that needs to be done. That process cannot stop. It would be extremely serious for patient safety in some contexts if you stopped in the middle of a transition. So maybe you should pause when you're done with one clinic, have a collection, and then you should consider: are we going to continue what you've done before? There is an assessment that management, together with the employees, must make each time. I have to trust, now that we have a new government in place – at least a large part of the board has changed and replaced – that we can do this in a better way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1553	I share a lot of Foss' views on the report from the Labour Inspectorate on Oslo University Hospital. And so does the Progress Party as a whole. In this context, our health policy spokesman, Mr Per Arne Olsen, called for a separate plan to be drawn up to ensure that maintenance-related delays are financed so as to be able to deal with them as quickly as possible. I also share in principle Foss' view that indebtedness is not a good way to rule. But as I analyze it, we almost have an exceptional state in our health sector. It is a very poor economy to sit still while buildings and equipment mature, and it must also be said to be a poor way of governing. Debt cancellation is also used, as far as I remember, in other contexts. To take other examples that this is a sector that is struggling with governance: I mean to remember from one of the reports we have previously dealt with in the Control and Constitutional Committee, that there is a significant impact on the leadership of hospitals, on the financial management of hospitals, and new issues are emerging in the media. It must be obvious that you have a problem when we were yesterday, I think to remember, in the news could see reports from South Africa, that equipment for 15 million. NOK at a department had stopped completely. This, of course, leads to cows, and it directly affects patients. When you have such exceptional situations, you have to do something drastic. It is then obvious to the Progress Party that this is a sector that has been underbudgeted for many years. That is some of the reasons why we have put forward some measures in the sector that are quite drastic. In the alternative budget for this year, we have, among other things: proposed an increase of 2,5 billion. kr. But to my main point: the parties that are in the majority of the committee, who are in opposition in this room, have a more serious approach to this than the government parties might think, as will be seen from the comments in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1564	This is not a competition to take the situation most seriously. The government party takes its findings seriously, and we take the task of getting up to date with the maintenance, seriously. I take the floor to say something about the Progress Party's proposal to cancel the debt to the hospitals. When it comes to introducing measures on such a follow-up that we have on maintenance, it is possible to do something that we know works, and the measures that the government has taken have already shown results. I have full confidence that they will show more positive results. One needs to insert a measure that measures a little bit. I see the Progress Party's commitment to this as very honest and sincere. However, I have to say that in 2011 the interest cost on the loan was approx. 500 million. kr. It's less than 0.5 pst. total costs incurred by healthcare professionals. If one also includes deductions on the debt, the aggregate costs are related to the loans under 2 pst. costs incurred by health professionals. Therefore, there is reason to ask questions about how much effect it will have to delete these loans. I would rather put my trust in the measures outlined by the government in its response.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1573	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 912]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1591	I am raising this debate because, as a major health representative, I feel a responsibility to make sure that patients in Norway have a good treatment offer. The debate also provides the Stortinget with an opportunity to engage in the process of transition with proposals for solutions to the problems we have seen in the health services in Eastern Europe in recent years. For the health services in the eastern region, the last few years have been marked by enormous unrest and unforeseeableness. In particular, the merger of Oslo University Hospital has been one of the main contributors to the problems that have affected Health South-East. But also the merger of Kongsberg Hospital, the Hospital Asker and Bærum and Ringerijk Hospital to the Vestre Viken healthcare company has offered problems. In addition, the systems have failed, and the costs have been cut. It all started in 2007, when regional health companies Health East and Health South were merged into one massive health company responsible for about half of Norway’s population, with Oslo University Hospital as its crown jewel. The aim was to improve patient safety, strengthen professional environments and cut costs. That was good intentions. Now – almost five years later – we see patients, trustees and supervisors who are concerned about patient safety. We see professional environments in disintegration, and we see budget cracks in the billions class. The total deficit of the four Western Viking companies has increased steadily since the summer of 2009 and until today. The deviation from the control target has almost tripled in a negative direction. Yesterday we saw a report on the news of two patients who could tell about the major failure of the systems at Oslo University Hospital that makes children and young people go unnecessarily long with pain. A few weeks ago, I had a meeting with two young people and their mothers, including one of them we saw in the report yesterday. These could tell heartbreaking stories that young people with rare and complicated diseases do not receive treatment within the deadlines, that they are not called into surgery or outpatient clinics, and that they do not even get contact with the hospital when they call – that is to say, the person in the hospital is right. The parents are frustrated, but frustration is also found at the other end of the phone. The games are as desperate as the patients. They don't have systems that work. All agreements and all journal processing must be done manually, making the work ineffective and strenuous. At the same time, the number of employees in this department, orthopaedic department in the Rikshospitalet, was cut. This means that patients do not receive the treatment they require, and they go unnecessarily long with pain — severe pain. One of the key prerequisites for a successful merger is that all play by team – employees, trustees, management and owners. It's elementary. I stand here with the results of the employee survey from Oslo University Hospital. The survey gives a good picture of how employees — at all levels — feel at work. It gives a hint as to what the burden on the job is on the employees. That's interesting reading. But what makes the study particularly interesting is that it also asks employees how they view the ongoing migration process, and some of the figures are quite discouraging. Seven out of ten do not believe that Oslo University Hospital is capable of achieving the ambitions behind the merger, and if you dig deeper, the figures show a huge difference in reality between management and the staff in the clinics. On questions about Oslo University Hospital will achieve the ambitions underlying the merger, management will score 75 out of 100, while employees at the Acute Clinic, Medical Clinic, Heart, Pulmonary and Carcinology will only score 30 out of 100, i.e. less than half. On the question of whether they feel included in the conversions, the employees at those clinics gave a score of less than 36 out of 100, while management gave over twice that. What is the reason for the huge gap between management and employees in the belief that the transition will go well? I would think it's at least two-part: on the one hand, there was too much that was not the reason for the merger, and this gave bad assumptions. There were, for example: not collapsing ICT systems, it was also set up for a huge downturn, and in addition, a large cut in budgets was calculated at an early stage of the process. This has probably not made the aggregation smooth, and it has also made employees concerned about whether the aggregation can be carried out as quickly as possible without harming patients. Of course, when employees – rightly – are concerned about patient safety, resistance to aggregation will increase. On the other hand, the merger has been initiated and implemented by the Council of State and the Department as owners and the Board of Directors and the management of Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital. A change from top to bottom — or at least feels that way — is rarely popular if the employees do not consider it to be the most necessary. When the employee survey also shows that the employees feel that they have not been included in the process, yes, it may be the recipe for a downfall or that it does not work as you would have thought. A two-part problem requires at least one two-part solution. On the one hand, how can we make the systems work, get proper manning and maintain good governance of the economy throughout the transition process? Here I want to contribute. On the other hand, I can also ask, how can we get management's clockwork to believe that the transition will go well, to reproduce in the rest of the health business? To take the last one first: last week we could read in Today's Medicine that only 18 out of 59 somatic departments have a management that is present in the environment daily. 41 departments have cross-cutting management, i.e. the manager is responsible for persons and activities located in several locations. Employees are concerned about the lack of managers physically present, and believe that this affects day-to-day operations. This may lead to inefficiency, a lack of governance of the economy and a lack of involvement of employees in ongoing processes. Just this shows the need for the opposition proposed earlier this autumn, and as we propose in a proposal for a representative now under consideration in the Committee, namely increased local management of the departments. I think this can solve some of the problems mentioned, as well as improve the working environment and the safety of employees. So to the systems: failure of computer systems has caused patients in a number of cities in South and Eastern Europe not to be treated in time, or to be ‘away’ in the system. More were not called for control or were not given important information. The level of investment in ICT in the Norwegian health system has been lower than the level of investment in comparable countries. Failure of ICT systems will have serious consequences for patients. Therefore, the opposition parties on the Stortinget presented a joint proposal of DKK 10 billion for a massive investment in ICT throughout Health-Norway. Good computer systems help good doctors and good employees to provide good treatment, which in turn contributes to increased safety and well-being. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State on these two proposals I have here referred to, both of which are to be found in the draft representative that I referred to earlier. Will the Council accept the invitation from the opposition to a joint effort to invest in ICT and increase local management? Finally, of course, I would also like to refer to the question in the interpellation. I have here given the Council of State a simple but important question, almost a yes/no question, which I hope the Council of State will have the opportunity to give me a concrete answer and elaborate something further: Is the Council of State satisfied with the results of the merger to Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1624	There is a strong commitment to the situation of health enterprises in the metropolitan area, primarily at Oslo University Hospital HF. That's understandable. It is important to state that for Health South-East, the overall picture is good. Eight out of ten health establishments will deliver positive economic results in 2011. It is the three health establishments in the metropolitan area that will have a negative result. Hospitals in Health South-East have seen the shortest waiting times in the country, and they are cutting high on patient safety. There's Oslo University Hospital so far the best in the country. At the same time, we are facing major challenges. Technological development is moving limits on what we can deal with, and we have changes in demography and disease. At the same time, resources are limited, in terms of economics, and not least health professionals. We have to ask whether we use our resources in the best possible way. It's an important backtrace for the discussions. I think we need to be willing to make changes to improve patient provision. During this entire government period, major changes have occurred in the hospital sector. This has been important and correct. Last week we got OECD numbers confirming that we have largely succeeded in improving the survival of patients with cancer, stroke and myocardial infarction. This would not have been possible without conversions and changes. I believe that the merging of the regions was a right move to be able to address the challenges, in the capital area and in the rest of the region. In the past, hospitals were located in two different health regions, and many equally skilled and research environments were located in several places. There was broad consensus that this was not appropriate, either in terms of quality or good use of resources. Four hospitals were merged into Oslo University Hospital HF from 1 January 2009. OYS started a work to improve the division of tasks between hospitals. The local hospital functions were to be collected at Ullevål Hospital. The more specialised national and regional functions were to be collected at the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital. Aker Hospital was to be developed into an interaction arena between the hospitals in the metropolitan area and the Municipality of Oslo. The OUS has a lot of resources, and I think that's right – at present, 17 000 annual works and a budget of 17 billion. kr. The OUS has patient treatment, training and education tasks, and accounts for about half of all medical research in Norway. They provide national and regional services and have territorial functions for 480 000 people. OUS is also a local hospital for about 240 000 people in Oslo. Conversions shall provide the basis for strengthening patient provision and for the long-term development of the healthcare provider. Quality and capacity have improved in several areas, while other areas are somewhat lagging behind. Of course, these are also challenges. It is difficult to bring together strong trade unions and to reconcile different ways of working. It is also demanding to organise this technological and physical. Too many employees, it involves a new place of work or changed tasks. In the past, the four hospitals had largely chosen different ICT solutions, although hospitals were located in the same geographical area. Employees also had different pay and working conditions. This illustrates the importance of coordinating hospitals, but also demonstrates the challenges of this coordination. I understand that today's pay gap between the employees of the OYS can be perceived unfairly. This isn't special for the OYS. There are several examples that mergers, both public and private, give rise to wage differences after the merger because employees come from businesses with different collective agreements. The freedom of negotiation of the parties is an important element of Norwegian working life. Therefore, the OUS and the employers' association Specter need to find solutions to this in negotiations with employees' organisations. It is very unfortunate that the four hospitals do not have ICT solutions that can communicate with each other in a good way. Health South-East has assured that the new board and the new management of the OUS are working to ensure better technical solutions. It's true that the OUS has failed to adapt costs to its new reality. The OUS cut the budget by 1.7 billion. kr in 2011, with a corresponding increase in the budget of Aarhus. The amount was agreed between the two health establishments. It should take into account the adaptations in connection with the transfer of local hospital responsibility for about 160,000 people to Akershu University Hospital at the turn of the year. According to Health South-East RHF, the work on crew plans at the OUS has taken longer than foreseen. This is an important part of the transition and is one of the reasons why the OUS now has challenges in adapting its operations and costs to its budget framework. In 2011, Health South-East has given OUS approximately 225 million. kr as an exceptional grant. They have allowed the OUS to have an additional consumption in addition to the budget of about 400 million. kr related to the conversions. The situation as of October is that the OUS expects an exceedance of approximately 500 million. kr in addition to the 400 million. kr. Over the period 2010–2013, the OUS will be allocated an estimated 3.6 billion. kr in conversion funds, partly as a loan, partly as a direct grant and partly as an authorisation to carry a deficit. I see that this is necessary. However, the challenges facing health businesses in the metropolitan area are not only solved with more money. They must put in place the necessary measures to adapt operations and costs to the budgetary framework. This is a management responsibility that the board and the management of the OYS must handle in dialogue with the employees. Health South-East RHF has assured that crew plans at the OUS will be completed by the end of 2011 in accordance with the requirements of the 2012 budget. It is unfortunate that the crew plans were not in place during 2010, but I feel confident that the board and the management at OUS are fully focused on this now. I can assure the interpellant that, within the framework of the health business model, I am using the management tools I have at my disposal. Follow-up to governance requirements, including: through monthly reporting and follow-up meetings. Due to the lack of staffing plans, budget excesses and concerns reports, the Ministry has since summer intensified the follow-up meetings with Health South-East to every 14 days. I have also chosen to carry out several meetings with the employees and their organisations. I understand that many people experience the situation as demanding. In addition to professional and economic challenges, such a change in pay and working conditions and place of work leads to many. Conversions at the OUS are still in an early stage. I expect that the difficulties will gradually be cleared up, and that the results will come gradually. Conversions are extensive and consist of many different elements. It is not possible to carry out a risk analysis, for example, once and for all, which takes into account all the issues and obstacles that arise in such a comprehensive process. I would therefore like to follow up on Oslo University Hospital's ongoing assessment of the further steps in the reorganisation, both in terms of speed and risk analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1661	I thank the Council of State for the answer so far. I feel that the Council of State is largely satisfied, while pointing out that there is a demanding transformation going on. I think everyone in this room understands that there are very demanding processes going on. At the same time, I feel enough that the Council of State, through over half the article, is telling about the processes and how they are organised – we have read that in the budget, as well, facts of the process and how it has been organised – but that was not exactly what was in the question of the inter-pellation text. It was whether the Council of State was satisfied, given all the problems that have now arisen, and, as far as the Council of State also refers to, perhaps the two largest, in my opinion, ICT systems that are almost – if I have understood what we hear in the Storting, correctly – broken down. The government doesn't specifically mention what we hear, that you might have lost as much as 130 million. kr through the ICT system, the clinical work force, which I personally seized in December 2010 and began to ask questions about. Then there was already a part that saw that this was about to slide. When we hear that employees need to get in and out of different systems, and that it affects young people, as I said, and beyond other patients, I don't understand that the Council of State may be satisfied. In terms of reality, what employees describe, and what the Health Authority describes, we know that the Health Authority in Oslo and Akershus have asked new questions about Oslo University Hospital – they are waiting for answers. The Council of State did not answer me the question of management. I think management is absolutely crucial. I would like to hear from the Council of State if she really believes that a process as large as we are now conducting at Oslo University Hospital does not necessarily require that the leaders are present in the department. For whom, other than the management of all levels of hospitals, will be able to motivate employees, to involve employees in the enormous transformations? We hear about and read in the paper that there are actually people employed at the university hospital, OYS, who don't know who their closest manager is. I think that's quite eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1672	If you are satisfied or not, you must be answered on the basis of the expectations you have had for a process. I don't think any of those who are close to these processes have had expectations that this should be a simple conversion process. It's very demanding. You have your buildings, and you have to move around inside these buildings. A large proportion of the patients have moved to another hospital, and you have to adjust the manning in line with that. In addition, there are different technological solutions that need to be combined, and not everything has been as simple, especially in the work that has been involved in clinical work. That's why it's going to have to continue to get into a better track. Just this with ICT systems is extremely difficult. It just shows that when four hospitals are so close to each other, actually end up with four patient administration systems, at least it's good to have one strategy for the future. So in the case of ICT, it's absolutely necessary to keep full pressure on improving those systems. This is done in the case of X-rays, and you also have to look at how to improve patient administration systems. Then there was a question of management and whether you had to be in charge. It goes without saying that in an organisation with 17 000 annual works, there must be management at many levels, which I fully agree must be present and in good dialogue with the employees. Because if you're going to get to this transition in a good way, we're totally dependent on the trust leaders and the management playing together. I would like to repeat what I said in the first case that was up today, that this is a process that we follow closely – of course we do – because we must not forget what was the prerequisite for this whole conversion process. It was to improve patient care, make better use of our resources – medical equipment, buildings and all that is required to have a top-class healthcare service. Then I would like to say that the OECD figures that came last week also show another thing – that we are the country that grants the most money in terms of public budgets for health. It is our responsibility to have the best healthcare service we can have. Oslo University Hospital has been and will be a flagship in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1687	The representative, Davøy, is travelling here an interpellation on the conversion of hospitals in the capital. The inter-pellant indicates that Health South-East was established in 2007. This transformation had broad political support in the Stortinget. The new regional enterprise analysed the challenge picture with split and partially duplicated activities in both patient treatment and research and concluded that it would be appropriate to coordinate the resources of one hospital — Oslo University Hospital. Within this healthcare company, the Rikshospitalet section would have the primary responsibility for regional and national functions, and the Ullevål hospital section would be responsible for local hospital functions. Finally, the representative, Mr Davøy, raises in the interpellation text questions whether there is reason to be satisfied with the results of the merger of Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. Since the formation of Health South-East received broad and pronounced political support and it is not thematic to reverse this in isolation, I am dealing here with Oslo University Hospital. The objectives of Oslo University Hospital are responses to international trends in medical knowledge. Large international research activity in the field of diagnostics and treatment leads to increased specialisation in hospitals in all western countries. I have been following Norwegian hospitals that treat and research for 30 years. Today's opportunities were completely unimaginable in my first years, and – this is a crucial point – the development has not stopped, on the contrary, it goes on at a faster pace than before. Given this, where the framework conditions for progress come to us from other countries, from the research powers, it is not optimal to have three university hospitals within the city border in a relatively small city like Oslo. So the goals are good. Then we have to have skills and a value base to get this done in Norway. At the centre of the value base is that the goal is better patient treatment, both now and in the coming years. The task of leadership is to implement this as factually as possible, with the heavy involvement of employees, as we do otherwise in Norway and know that this contributes to increased value creation. That's the way it should be when we renew the public sector. The change usually encounters resistance. Part of the job is to find out when the resistance is justified. Then it's a value in itself to be at work when you face difficult times. The representative Davøy asks if we should be satisfied. I believe the answer is yes in terms of objectives and direction in order to ensure the provision and research of international quality in the near and long term. The answer is no with regard to today’s status, especially with respect to all employees who have unanswered questions and experience uncertainties, while extending extra scope to safeguard their patients. But the answer to this challenge cannot be to escape. A policy to stop the process, in my opinion, is not responsible enough. A good captain will not leave the boat in the middle of England and America, even if it blows up to storm. It's irresponsible. The solution is good seamanship. Therefore, for Oslo University Hospital, good – and even better – seafarers are now essential and necessary. The correct course further needs to be laid out and adapted to the boat's design and strength. The correct engine speed must be selected and the entire crew must be mobilized. The management has a special responsibility to cooperate with trustees, protection services and user organisations, and this participation and participation must be entirely real. To keep us to the facts: much is difficult, and much is experienced as difficult, but at the same time, in this situation, there is progress for Oslo University Hospital on many quality parameters, and many parts of the organisation deliver better than ever. For example, transplant activity during this period has been higher than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1706	The next speaker is Per Arne Olsen, with the hope that the representative Olsen will be recognized. Last post gave the impression that Oslo University Hospital did not have a land registration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1709	Unfortunately, the specialist health service has long been plagued by unrest, hospital scandals, juxtapositions, increasing waiting lists and waiting times, and last but not least, the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital, in my opinion, has appeared to be completely out of control. There are two diametrically opposite realities of the situation — patients and their organisations, doctors, nurses, health services and county doctors on the one hand, and state councils, health companies' boards and management on the other — or, to put it another way, those who are close to the patients and who have the shoe on the one hand and those who are furthest away from the process, on the other. Since I myself have spent 14 days as a patient in the Rikshospitalet, I can sign that the understanding among those who work on the floor is not in line with that of the management. They feel, just as the representative Davøy was concerned, that it is very far from the so-called management of the hospital, not to mention the health company. Health South-East is responsible for the specialist health service for half of the country's population. That is why it was a strong and serious signal we received when Siri Hatlen resigned as hospital director in Oslo because she did not consider the government-inflicted hospital cuts to be justifiable, as well as that she and others in the board feared – rightly – that this would compromise patient safety. The Progress Party has warned against this development for a long time and clearly. Although we primarily want a different funding and organisation system from the current system – a system in which the money follows each patient – and although the current situation could have been avoided by the government, the Progress Party took responsibility in the revised national budget, where we proposed over half a billion dollars in hospital conversion funds, including the OYS, so that the treatment offer and patient safety were not affected. It is, in fact, most important to put patients and the safety of life and health first, and that requires action rather than shoulder strapping. There are no parties in this room that disagree with the intentions of the process. A modern and efficient hospital system is a prerequisite both for reducing queues, for reducing waiting times and for meeting tomorrow’s medical challenges. So patients do not have to pay the cost of so poor patient treatment that life and health can be lost. When we heard the representative of Health's analogy to seafarer life, and I come from a seafarer's town, you might say that when it blows up to a storm at sea, you try to find more lukewarm waters. There might have been an idea in this case. I don't know about any major conversion processes in the private sector where you don't first realize that the conversion process actually costs money, and then, after that, to reap in terms of better patient safety and a more effective healthcare system. When the Council of State and her State Secretary point out that 160,000 inhabitants have been transferred to Ahus, it is important to point out that the project at Ahus was downgraded quite solidly before it was realized in its time. As a result, other hospitals that were to be closed have not been closed. The situation for both Stensby and Ski has changed, from possible closure to maintenance and expansion. Despite this, Ahus has too many problems with Corridor Asians, which may have resulted in patients dying in the corridor, despite the fact that the Council of State has assured us that this should not be a permanent situation. When you have to run a fully-fledged hospital with related professional environments and support services, as well as your own hospital, as you have to at Aker, and this must be run at Ullevål, where some repairs are already required, it goes without saying that it is expensive to operate Oslo University Hospital. An important reason for their current deficit is that they have not been given the framework conditions that are a prerequisite for a successful conversion process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1732	The representative Are Health used pictures from the shipping industry and thought that there was a storm that was the challenge when it came to the crossing. When I heard the Council of State and the representative of Health, I would rather say that it reminded me that the fog had fallen into the canal. It is almost impossible to hear the Council of State talk about this issue without the three spells repeating themselves constantly: ‘I presume that’, ‘I presume that’ and ‘I assure myself that’, on any issue raised in this matter. This has been the case for as long as the Storting has called for challenges related to this transformation. In relation to the reality we are now in, I would remind you of what the Council of State said in Stortinget on 10 June 2011, when the Stortinget had asked for a statement on this matter: ‘In order to succeed in the transition, it is important that both the owner and the management, and the employees, are familiar with, and agree on, objectives and framework conditions, and that we maintain this even if we encounter obstacles along the way.’ Further: ‘It is important to ensure dialogue and build trust within the organisation. But this is not enough. We also need to build confidence in the environment, especially against the population.' I don't think that's the description people will use if they're going to put any words on the situation this process is in now. It's almost impossible to find others who share the government's reality description in this case, except for the top management of Health South-East and some of the top management of Oslo University Hospital. Otherwise, the Council of State and the government are all alone. The County Doctor, Labour Inspectorate, Patient Ombudsman, Employees, Patients and the Environment — everyone else perceives this situation differently. It is quite surprising that the Council of State then only chooses to listen to the top management in Health South-East, considering how demanding this conversion process is. What surprises is that one takes all the alarming signals coming from the employees and places them in one booth, namely ‘resistance to change’. It's obvious that when you're going to make as big a change as this one is facing, there's a resistance to conversion. But I'm surprised that the Council of State, which is responsible, has the stomach to dry to place all the serious signals coming from the employees, in that booth, that these are people who don't want to change. Among these signals are actually significant warnings about conditions that will and can affect patients. This is about two demanding changes. One is the transfer of the patient base from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus. The other is demanding collections of essential activities within Oslo University Hospital. Implementing these two processes at the same time, at that rate, is extremely demanding, and it should have been possible to look at the tempo plan, which was also addressed by the Right already on 12 October 2010. Then, in an inter-pelling debate similar to the one we have today, the Council of State said that according to Health South-East, manning is an identified risk factor in the process, and that one looks at the patient base and transfer of staff from Aarhus to Oslo University Hospital. She went on to say, ‘This is intended, inter alia, to: by facilitating the transfer of staff from Oslo University Hospital. There have been delays in this process, but it is now assumed that there will be enough applicants in the advertised positions at Aarhus." Exactly one year and two days later, the Council of State responds to the representative of Afghan Rafiq that Health South-East ‘has informed me that Aarhus has had a demanding manning situation’. And on the other hand, ‘This has led to the recruitment of new staff being shifted from the 2010/2011 turn of the year to a gradual escalation during the first 10 months of the year.’ Patients were moved over before Ahus had the capacity to deal with the new patient base.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1768	The aim of bringing together Health East and Health South in 2007 was to coordinate the professional settings of hospitals in Oslo, to ensure better health care for the population in the capital and in the rest of the country. The starting point for this process was actually before the merger and establishment of Health South-East – it was when it was decided to build Ahus. I assume that all governments, health ministers and previous deliberations who have decided that this merger process should be carried out – and there are many – have agreed that it would be demanding, both for employees and for management, to ensure patient treatment in the implementation process. I note that there is still a broad consensus in the Storting that this process should be carried out. But then I note that the opposition has now proposed that we should press the break button, that we should adopt a stop during the whole merger process, after it is now fully under way. It is, with respect, a very bad proposal. There is reason to ask whether the opposition parties have an overview of the consequences of such a stoppage, for example. whether it should be a year or more. What consequences will it have for both employees and the entire process, which has been adopted by up to several sizes? Has the opposition submitted the costs of such a stoppage? I do not find them in the parties' alternative proposals for the state budget. However, what is the basis of this whole process, which is the overall political leadership of the Storting, is that patients should be protected, patient safety should be ensured, the quality should be maintained, the contributions from the County doctor in Oslo followed up, and the staff should be maintained in a decent and good manner. And not least — a safety and risk assessment is to be continuously carried out. This means that the Minister of Health has the necessary powers to carry this out at the rate that is considered to be sound. It is also important that the board of directors and the management of the health undertaking establish good cooperation venues with the employees so that the process can be carried out in a good way. It is demanding, I note, but it is absolutely necessary for the further process. I expect the new chairman, the new board and the new director to give this top priority. I noticed that the Minister of Health now has meetings with the regional enterprise as often as every 14 days. It tells us about close follow-up. Finally, let me stress that this is perhaps the most important conversion measure we are implementing in the public sector. It is very important that we succeed. Oslo University Hospital does not just belong to the capital, it belongs to the whole country. It has very important national functions. Therefore, I assume that all available tools will be put in place to ensure that this conversion is successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1788	When Health Sør and Health Aust were merged in 2007, the argument was that one should coordinate the professional environment and ensure better use of medical and health care resources in the capital area, but also to ensure proper distribution of resources across the country and to improve patient safety. At the time, the government party received support from the Progress Party and the Right. I note that there is no party today to call for this decision to be reversed. Then it is that the process of conversion has caused a lot of unrest. We get a lot of questions. There is frustration in the professional community, and it is claimed that patient safety is threatened. These are serious feedback. There is also a small paradox that some of the basis for the decision was that one should strengthen patient safety. At present, the Health Council has provided additional answers on how the migration process is being closely followed up, in line with what is proposed by the Enterprise Act. I agree with the Council of State that it is imperative to bring together strong trade unions and different ways of working and culture. Such large conversion processes are demanding anyway. But health care is not the easiest thing to do. It's a complex system. There are knowledge companies that do not tolerate a crisis of confidence, that reorganization is going to fail or get strong scratches in the paint. I also agree with the Council of State that it is regrettable that the ICT bet as one spent 160 million. kr, had to be scrapped, and it is clear that this has made the work more difficult. But I also don't think that the challenges of capital city conversions are solved with more money. The representative, Laila Davøy, has a good record in her contribution when she talks about a quiet lease, a lease that takes responsibility for day-to-day operations, budgetary responsibilities and staff responsibilities. Neither day-to-day operations nor work for desired conversion do I believe I will function in a good way without a ladder that is physically present at the workplace. I am also pleased that the Council of State in the speech today notes that an organisation with 17,000 members to be converted requires the rental to be present in the organisation. It is also my experience in the country that hospital workers are asking for city rent. A lot of people think it's too far from the boss. I think it's positive what's happening in the venture West Week. They have just introduced local rental in their hospitals in the transition challenges that exist there. If a person compares to a school, the hospital/health care is in a special position. When it comes to schooling, the Training Act prevents one from having a common principal, even if there are only a few kilometers between the schools and there are small schools. There are no such limits in the pre-tax laws. To tolerate a major change in an organisation is related to how solid the organisation is managed in advance, or to another way: how solid the organisation is, is seen in the conversion processes. Therefore, the problems of conversions at Oslo University Hospital may be caused by the weakness of the health service model itself. Maybe we don't know enough. We have just become guilty of not evaluating our major health reforms well enough. But what's important is that we should be closed in a transformation process, we have to create a common understanding of reality. We need to create a common culture, there needs to be a short distance between skilled workers and the leadership, and one needs to do the conversion processes in a cooperative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1801	It was liberating to hear the representative Kjersti Toppe, to come from a government party, I think she had quite many critical remarks that those who came from the corresponding party before her could enjoy hearing. It is especially important to hear both the Council of State and representatives of the position describe the current situation at Oslo University Hospital. Many metaphors have been used in this debate, but at least it is time to see that maps and terrain no longer vote – even if you are a Council of State. All the supervisory authorities that comment are generally strongly critical, and when they receive answers, there is no answer – there are feedbacks that provide the basis for new questions, because it is unsatisfactory what comes from management. What's the ratio? It is not that the opposition presses any pause button - no one has suggested it. But you have to adjust the price when the situation has turned out the way it is. The situation is that what Siri Hatlen said six months ago is the reality. With the framework conditions now derived from the majority, there is no basis for implementing this transition as a precondition. It turns the majority to the deaf ear, and then you also have to take the consequences. A few months ago, I was in debate with the new director of Oslo University Hospital and the State Secretary. What was the message? Well, the first and most important thing to do was to hire a new CEO. It was of the utmost importance. What happened at the last board meeting in Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East? – Deferred, no grounds for appointing a new Executive Director. So the question is, what do you spend these 14 days with follow-up meetings for now? still do not have local top management at Oslo University Hospital? Then it's about Ahus. If you are interested in getting a situation description of how this conversion process has worked for those who are actually affected by it, namely the patients in the metropolitan areas of Oslo that we are talking about and who were transferred from Aker to Ahus, you have to ask the primary doctors and the city councillors, and you get the answer that the patient offer has not improved, but the opposite. I would really like, when we are faced with such a comprehensive process as this transformation involves, that time is spent at least listening to the objections that are coming, and not just saying that there is resistance to conversion. Yes, of course it is, but it's also heavy, professional input that you should spend time on. I heard the statements of the Council of State: that's a very good description. The word "requiring" was used incredibly many times. It was demanding for the employees, it was demanding for the management, it was a demanding conversion. Yes, there is also one more thing that is demanding, and it is to have the political courage to adjust the course when you see that you are on the wrong course. It's demanding, but it had the transition, the patients and the employees earned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1816	I want to start by thanking Laila Davøy for the interpellation, and I want to thank Hans Olav Syversen for a very good post, which I can put myself fully behind. The problem with Oslo University Hospital is not that there is no great work there. Of course it does. It's strange to have a council that only boasts of one thing, and that's that it spends the most money. I think you have to stop boasting that you are the one who spends the most money by everyone, when the criticism is about how to spend the money. Being a good boss — whether it's in large or small structures, whether it's being a government councillor or being a small business manager — is not just about keeping track of the lines and having good reporting routines. It's also about being a listener to what's going on in your own organization, taking care of yourself and creating enthusiasm for the project you're doing. Here it must be admitted that the government has some weaknesses. They may have order in the lines, they may have good reporting routines, but there's something missing in the other parts of what's called good management. It is said that you should not only have a basic vision that holds the bottom and the ground, but that you should also have a walk-through view that keeps you going from time to time. Here, it's clear that the Council of State hasn't done much in the halls and talked to people. When the representative, Toppe, says you can't stand a crisis of trust in such a project, we start to approach it very much. It is developing a major crisis of confidence in its own organisation related to the transformation that is taking place, and the way it is happening. I only have three minutes left. I want to lift three moments. One has a lot of promises. It's called ICT betting. My question is whether the Council of State is sure that the blunder you wore on so-called clinical flat projects will not happen again. These hospitals are very close to our top competences in the field of ICT in the university and higher education sectors, and all those who work there with such large projects are aware that the approach chosen is completely wrong. Thinking that you're going to create a complete system is completely wrong. Here one has to be aware that these are systems that live and that are in continuous development. Here, millions have been wasted on something that was wrong. The second is that health is also priorities — health is also priorities within such a great transformation. The left has two concerns that prevail against groups I don't think we've seen represented, neither when there's going to be big torches in the city, nor when the directors put together their staffs. And we're constantly getting word of big cuts within the rushes and within the psychiatry. There are bed places that disappear in order, and there is great cut in the offer that is. I have taken up many times from this pulpit with the Council of State that we were concerned about the transfer to Ahus, not because we were concerned about and had nostalgia associated with the houses of Aker, but we were concerned about the special group that you transfer to a hospital that is largely designed to operate people, when we know that the population group that has the most trouble is within the russies and psychiatry. Now we see that what we warned against years ago is about to turn into the number of bed places and cut in those areas. Nor do we believe that they are represented around the director's table, nor are they represented when the torches are lit. The last moment is the enormous growth of the administration of such processes. If no one hangs over such a process and makes sure that the administration doesn't grow into heaven, it will. And we're starting to get a lot of signals that the most important thing about these processes is not the focus on what's going to be done, that people are going to be healthy, but that the focus is on building up a difficult administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1835	First, thank you to the representative, Davøy, who is taking up the interpellation. It is important to discuss continuously the organisation of healthcare in Norway. I have some considerations relating to what I experience as a debate. When one discusses the hospitals in Oslo, I believe that one can't let go of the rest of the country. The reorganisation in Oslo and the structural changes taking place there are also related to what is happening in the rest of the country. With regard to the financing of health businesses, I would just like to say that it is this government that has made it possible for them to make a good internal distribution between health businesses, and also between the different health regions. The previous government didn't. When I think politically, I see that there is a difference in the rhetoric between the Christian People's Party and, in part, the Right Party and the Advance Party. The way I've experienced it here, the black paints the Right and the Advance Party situation. In particular, the Progress Party points in two directions. It's that either is one on the patient's side, or one is on the Health Minister's side. It gets too easy in this situation. There are so many shades here, and there are so many important issues that require a better debate, I believe. It's said and used pictures to explain where we are in this landscape, or on this lake. The right said we were driving a fog. Then it is at least so that in fog one can come forward, but strikes a full retreat, one does not get anywhere. I feel that the Right Party and the Advance Party want that. As I see it, they will go backwards into the future. The future in the health sector is migration. The future in the health sector is a fair distribution of money. Steps Skei Grande brought out the patient groups that she thought have major challenges — both in healthcare now and not least in the past. If we're going to be able to raise the patient groups that need our money most from the community, we're going to have to look at how we can spend our money in the best possible way. So we can use them in a better way than what we do today. Laila Bavøy draws up several things that I think are important. She's drawing up this on ICT -- it's very important. The situation is the way it is. We can't rewind and say that it should be different, like when we started this. But it's incredibly important that this is being followed up in a good way. The representative also points to this with management – local management. In the Southern Hospital they have done a bit of each. They have some departments where they have local management, and some departments where they have cross-sectional management between hospitals. I think the most important thing is that they get good leaders. Then they may have different variations in the management structure, but I'm afraid that the Council of State is going to start to decide what kind of management structure you are going to have in the extremes. I think there must be so much room for management, creativity, enthusiasm and commitment out there that one can find solutions in the individual workplace. It must be important to give signals is the content of the service — how to meet patients, what quality requirements to have and what room to have for employees and management, and to be in dialogue about developing the service. When I talk about hospitals and the Oslo process at home, I get one clear feedback. It's going on. We can't stop. In the South, we have had major and difficult changes in the health sector. We've had to do them. We also had great resistance, and we have great resistance. It's not true that it's just because people don't want to, because it has real issues to do with – related to the experience of quality, the experience of how to develop their profession for the benefit of users. What we're afraid of is that if the conversion to the Oslo hospitals continues, it will have a ringing effect on all the other health companies in Health South-East, who have actually done a great job, and who have been working to get it within the established framework. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to say that seeing Oslo in isolation, without being able to take on arguments and debate that show the consequences of this in the other healthcare companies, I think it is important to give feedback about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1858	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Davøy, who raised this issue. I think it is important and necessary that we have a continuous debate on it. It was uplifting to hear the representative, Toppe, who acknowledges that there are major challenges, and who also have the courage to say – and dare to say – that there is a crisis of trust between management and trust in the Oslo hospital process. It was actually an important recognition. So if the Council of State does not want to listen to the opposition, she should at least listen to the description and concerns expressed by the representative Toppe. She obviously has more contact with the real world. In the case of Kari Henriksen, she tries to present it as if the opposition is opposed to the process of conversion. No, we're not. We're for something that we think is a completely necessary conversion. That is the pace we are concerned about, not least in the light of all the concerns that come to us – the crisis of confidence that has arisen between the trustees and the management of hospitals, and which the county doctor and the health department have also pointed out and feel serious. The transformation that is now taking place at Oslo University Hospital also applies to Aarhus – and has also had consequences for that hospital and for the population in Akershus. Many are now insecure about the situation because recent reports of serious concern have been received from doctors, nurses and other employees, as well as from patients who are implicated in Ahus. The county board has also come with a great deal of concern. The local hospital responsibility for Alna city in Oslo and for the Follo municipalities was among other things. transferred to Aarhus at the turn of the year. This has increased the patient base for Aarhus by 160,000. In addition, Ahus is already a local hospital for the whole of Rome and Roman Forest in Eastfold and has surpassed 500,000 people as a strikefield. They still have a demanding manning situation due to problems with the recruitment of new personnel, which they have still not got in place. In Rome's magazine on 25 November – just a couple-three days ago – it says that Ahus must cut hard. They're gonna have to cut down 340 million. kr in their budget for the next year, and they say that they can't avoid it without downsizing, despite having too few people from before. There should not be so much insight into the functioning of the healthcare system as to understand that this could be detrimental to the provision and patient safety. I got the impression that most of the people from the positions and state councils who have had the word here are quite satisfied with the whole process. It's in quite a contrast to what doctors, nurses and other employees tell us. So it seems like there's a great distance in reality perception. In addition to what I have mentioned, the Labour Inspectorate has repeatedly instructed to restore the balance between tasks and resources. There have been repeated breaches of the Working Environment Act, which has also resulted in a police report at Aarhus. There are over 20,000 breaches of the Working Environment Act, and the patient representative in Akershus is also deeply concerned. I don't mean to paint black. On the contrary, I think it must be realistic to get on the table what are the real challenges of this process. I hope the Council of State can get a better sense of reality than what I have the impression that she now has. I think it's very important for someone to move on. It is important to restore trust between management and the trustees in the hospital in order to get this process back on track. Then it is possible that you need to drive a little more slowly to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1875	I also commend the interpellant for addressing this question. The whole conversion of hospitals in the Oslo region as a whole, for which we were also in favour, would provide greater efficiency without going beyond the patients in the region, of course. But I get almost daily enquiries from the citizens of Akershus – especially in the Follo region – who are concerned about the hospital situation of the population in this part of the county, who moved over 1 January this year. Last week, at the latest in a letter last week, a citizen wrote to me: ‘I allow myself – as a Follo citizen – to ask you to work for this unworthy situation to be reversed, by allowing Aker to work for the best of the population for a few more years and at least until A-house is adequately manned!’ [[ps – as he has described in his letter]] The citizen has also described his own meeting with the hospital in an emergency hospitalisation phase as follows: ‘From the waiting room of the receiver, patients were pushed on — and in the entire corridor there were more or less sick people — almost as far as the eye was concerned. A nurse said that although they had been twice as many, they had not been able to take away such cows, which were common, in a reasonable time." [[...]] Fortunately, the composer continues as follows: «But, for the sake of order, when I first came to treatment, we met people of such quality we await in such a situation.» Like all the parties on Stortinget, the right has also supported this part of the capital process, namely the transfer of patients from some parts of Oslo and Follo from worn-out Aker to new Ahus. But in August and October 2010, we raised questions about the transfer went too fast, and whether there was enough capacity on Aarhus to accept all the new patients. Analyses from Aarhus itself showed significant risk of the transfer. Yes, the merger in the capital process meant very demanding changes for hospitals in the region. Only Ahus increased his recording range by more than 30 pst. Trustees at Aarhus have now written a letter of concern pointing to documented overcoatings, a high number of corridor Asians, high workload and lack of motivation for employees. They believe that there are 70-100 bed places missing from the hospital at Aarhus, and that this affects patient safety. On 20 August 2010, I sent a written question to the Minister of Health about the situation at Aarhus following the decision to transfer the 160 000 citizens to the hospital's admission area. In his reply to me on 31 August, the Council of State says: ‘In principle, there are exactly the same number of patients who are to have the same hospital offer both before and after this transfer. This means that within the capital area there shall be sufficient qualified doctors, nurses and other staff to care for these patients.’;» The Council of State goes on to say: ‘It is a clear prerequisite for the process of transferring a larger patient base from Oslo and Follo that Aarhus has enough staff in place to care for patients in a good way. I have said clearly that no patients should be moved from one hospital to another until we are sure that they are guaranteed an equally good or better offer. Health South-East has informed me that Ahus will recruit something over 780 new employees within the somatic area. Of these, more than 160 are occupied after the first call to staff of the Oslo University Hospital, which will adapt their staff and reduce the number of employees in line with the reduction in the patient base.’ She also writes: «Health South-East has assured me that Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus have established a close and good dialogue between the professional communities on the phase-out and phase-in of patients.» There is something that is not entirely in touch when we can read that the forecasts for Oslo University Hospital after this point to a deficit of 1 billion. kr in 2011. Also in Ahus it goes against a deficit in several hundreds of trillion classes for 2011. Although we understand that many professionals are now in place and are recruited, I ask: Can the situation from January 2011 be repeated when Aarhus now has to save hundreds of millions in 2012 and then will have to quit professionals again? So finally, Kari Henriksen needs a new dictionary. She believes that ‘anxiety’ means ‘black paint’. She believes that the desire to do things better is to go backwards into the future. She should have another one for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1917	Doing as big a change as what we've done here is extremely demanding. I believe that this story has also shown. What is an advantage of this transformation is that there is a rather large majority behind the objective of the transition. That is a good starting point when there are so many political parties who believe that the goal of the transition is what we are going to do. I also think it is a pleasure to hear that the representative of Syversen today rejects the fact that you are talking about a break button, but about adjustments. So what are we left with? Well, then we're left with a real discussion between position and opposition, which I think is possible to solve, because there are relatively small differences in what is proposed in the alternative budgets. So what I experience when I read our budget, and when I read the opposition's budget, with the exception of one party, is that it's completely possible to find together in a common strategy further for a lot of what we're discussing here. And then I think that politically maybe we should take a little ‘time out’ and adjust the course for how we rhetorically discuss this matter. Because what we're all contributing to is creating an unnecessary uncertainty out there. The media is going to find some patients who don't get the help they think they should have right now. When you then mix that picture with a big debate about a demanding change, and you have management problems against employee problems – as it is in all conversions – the picture becomes very messy. I believe that Parliament has a great responsibility to ensure that there is no undue fear. That's what I'm saying without pointing at anyone, neither position nor opposition. However, when looking at the alternative budgets towards the position budget, I believe that this Parliament has shown many other times that it is able to find together, even with much greater disagreement than this. Nor is it the case that the position has said that we should not adjust the course along the way – on the contrary, it has of course been pointed out time and time again that in such a large conversion one must adjust the course along the way. But you can't create an uncertainty about whether to implement it or not, because then you put everything on the game, or, as someone said, then you support the boat instead of it going forward. I hope that in the future we will be able to have a slightly different tone in this debate, because I believe that those who are actually in this in everyday life every day deserve it. When measuring the results of the Norwegian health care system, including for Oslo University Hospital, over this period, the figures are quite good. It's not like the numbers are going down on quality, they're actually going up, and they're going down on mortality, but no one out there thinks when I meet them now. Everyone thinks this is a complete crisis and that it is preferable to be dealt with outside Oslo now. It is quite frightening – as we have quite a lot of specialized service at Oslo University Hospital – that we are involved in creating a picture of the most specialised treatment we can provide, so that patients are now beginning to be afraid of going to those hospitals. So I had hoped for some humility from the opposition when several from the position have said that this is demanding. We don't paint anything. We say it's demanding, we've said it repeatedly, and it's going to be demanding until we reach the goal. That's the case with the conversions. It's a natural dynamics because you know what you have, but you don't know what you get. This has been researched through a number of changes in both domestic and foreign countries, and the result is that this creates this dynamics. And when it's in the health field, where you get a sense of life and health, and that naturally creates concern because you're initially a little scared when you're having problems with your health, I think we have to think about what use of words we use in such a debate. My simple message is that we might take an “hour out” politically and evaluate what language we use in this debate, because I feel that the distance is not very great between most in opposition and also in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1934	Nevertheless, there are several speakers left in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1937	I listened with interest to the reminders from the representative of Breen that Stortinget had to consider discussing the conversion problems at Oslo University Hospital because one could create uncertainty. I would rather say that the debate we have had today reflects more on the feedback received from both users and employees, as well as intermediaries and management in the institutions concerned. Parliament would not have done its job if there had not also been a dialogue with the responsible Council of State on how the transition was going, and that is what we in all modesty spend time here. I don't know if I'm particularly mild to the Council of State, but I have a lot of understanding that it's not easy in a politically controlled organization to make changes. Some of us may have experience from local government and city councillors, where we know that there is often a friction and a reflection – not to sabotage, so at least to run ahead when there are changes to be made. It's because it can often be easier to sit down and hope that this goes over, until you understand that if you're going on, you actually have to make adjustments. Then I want – since it has been suggested by some speakers – to say that the Right is very much for conversion. What we might be able to evaluate here is whether we should have less rigid centralized systems within the health system, which makes it a little bit more similar to the normal company life. In the business world, companies are turning 10 pst. each year, avoiding the major breakdowns every 10 years. In the public sector, it's the other way around. You have very static organizations that then wear down, until someone sees that this doesn't work, and then you do big, new grips with significant conversion costs. What's part of the learning in this is that even when we recognize the political problems of changing big organizations, there is a lot of insight back, which you can ask if the Council of State has taken too easy on. Firstly, when organisational changes are made together with building changes, they should in fact be linked. If you move an old organization into an old building mass, waiting for a large building to be built, it's the old organisation that actually has to be converted twice. There's one insight. Another is that if you want to produce the same amount during the reorganization, you have to use a little more money in a transition to create room for conversion costs, which by definition is going to be a one-off cost. They can be taken down again later. That's what we demand from the health care system. We do not demand less production while the conversion is in progress. A third experience is that after conversion, organisations must be supported by ICT solutions built on the value chain of all producers or service providers in any organisation. The fourth experience is that if you don't have the resources to make the hump that makes you get a reasonable transition with acceptable conversion disadvantages, you actually sometimes have to make some compromises when it comes to progress. If you run on and try to suppress the feedback that this is not going so well, you get a distance in the real world that can lay the groundwork for something even worse, namely that it is being distrusted by those who are going to operate the system on behalf of the elected and state councils, who, with all due respect, can't be everywhere either. I was inspired by this boat picture, this ship that is storming in the Atlantic. It's like if there's a storm, it's not a fog. But I think the representative Höie's image was more descriptive: you don't know exactly where to go, you don't have a clear picture of the future that you've been able to communicate to the employees that it's getting better. Then, of course, it's a limp side by the metaphor. The captain has left the ship. That was the reason why the CEO left, and it has not yet been possible to re-embark the bridge. So, from a maritime point of view, the conversion at Oslo University Hospital is not quite a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1958	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate. It's really been a big commitment. It shows that this interpolation might have been necessary right now. We who are in Stortinget are also frustrated that the perception of reality is so different. I would like to point out that the employees do a formidable job, despite the fact that they are in the middle of a demanding transition. There is no one here in the room – neither in the opposition nor in the government parties – who is in doubt about it. But we have to take the employees seriously. We know that they will do the best for patients anyway. It's those who call out to us, they and the patients, because they're not actually being heard in the hospitals, by the management and by the politicians who are set to rule. I have some comments on some of the posts here. The representative Health says that we agree on the goal and lift it up again. No one disagrees. But Health was also honest and answered no to the question whether he was satisfied so far. And then he says we can't escape. No, we don't. That's why, in all the modesty of this interpellation, I've tried to raise two things that we could actually have done something about: look at the ICT solution and improve the local management. Both the Council of State and Health have pointed out in their interventions the specific responsibility of management for the process. But there must be a local management there. They must be present if they are to be able to contribute from day to day. So the Council of State says about ICT that the patient administration systems need to be improved. Then it sounds like you have a proper system that works and goes if you just change it a little bit, or improve it a little bit. But the truth is, the new system you were going to buy collapsed. At least it couldn't be used. What happens now? Should the process just go on as if nothing has happened, when you can't actually talk internally in the hospitals that are merged? I don't understand. Then no one here has said that we should stop the process – absolutely no one. There's a debate on the side of what this interpellation is about. It's not about it at all. We're talking about the tempo, and that there's actually some relationship we have to go into and look at. I think you might have admitted that. I hope that the Council of State might say that you should do it. The reality is different, but what about the opposition, what about the employees, what about the Health Authority, what if patient groups are actually right, at least in any case? Maybe the Council of State could figure out what we're at least agreeing on, and is right in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1977	It's been an interesting debate. What is left of me, at least, is that you agree that the conversion is necessary, that you have not put more money into the conversion, that we might have to press the pause button and adjust the rate somewhat. I just want to repeat what I have said, that there has not been an end date for when the conversions will be completed. This should not be at the expense of patient safety, and whenever you are at a milestone in the migration process, you have to make risk assessments and assessments of whether you are on the right track. There's no disagreement in that. I mean, I've tried to express it. So, of course, I'm listening to the employees, of course I am. But there's not one single voice that has one solution for Oslo University Hospital. There are many employees, there are many who have different positions, there is also a management that has its responsibility, and I'm trying to listen to everyone. I am therefore very pleased that the new board takes the dialogue with the trusted ones as seriously as they do, and I trust that they will get this on a better track. It is not that I do not read or hear or see. So some statements that have come. The most important thing here is that patient safety is safeguarded in such a transformation that is taking place now. This is something that we're very closely following. Therefore, it is important that the county doctors are in and ask their questions, make their reports and give feedback on the process. But what cannot be read by any statistics is that patient safety suffers from this. It doesn't mean that things couldn't have been done better, but we're closely following this, precisely because this is so vulnerable, especially the patient safety that we've had so focused on, and that we measure, compare and look at. But we're very closely following, because it's clear that it's a large and comprehensive process. Then I have to say to Michael Tetzschner, to whom I listened with interest, that it's precisely because of this with the economy that it's added 625 million. kr in direct conversion funds, and with the permission of deficits, in order to be able to cope with it. It has, unfortunately, not been enough this time either, but at least it has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e1991	The examination of case No. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2007	Discussion of health policies can be done from different perspectives. One perspective is the big aggregations that we've just discussed, another perspective is to see it from patients, not least from the weakest patients. Let me start by saying that I think that in the last few months, everyone has enjoyed getting so strong positive results from medicine related to the treatment of ME patients as the results of Fluges and Mella's studies at Haukeland University Hospital show. It's uplifting, it's optimistic, and it's brought the debate related to fibromyalgia and ME into a slightly different track from where it's been for a long time. And it's that taking over that change -- maybe in reality -- I want to get ahead, but also that in the future we have to start to start re-establishing some of the approximate health abuses that have been done to part of this patient group over the years. The history of how the Norwegian – but also other countries – health services have treated patients with such debilitating diseases as this has not been good – to say that with a substatement, it has just been very bad. Yes, that's how a superior, Mr. Saugstad, has said that the treatment of the worst ME patients is our time lobotomy. It's so bad with our treatment of these patients. That's why I want to spend some time talking about the background of my question. I would like to note that I am happy to read in the paper today that the government will grant extra money for ME research, and that it is also possible to cut through and establish a centre for this. But it's also incredibly important what this center gets with leadership, and how we work on the questions related to both ME and fibromyalgia. Because it's a story without so many pleasures. If I'm allowed to recommend reading material at Christmas – it won't be encouraging Christmas reading, it's encouraging – then it's reading the book of Jørgen Jelstad, they hid away. It's a book that describes the research development, maybe why it's the trail of errors, and with many single stories. It's a martial law, but it's important, I think, for all those involved in health policy, to take on board how the prestige can make sure that the health benefit is not focused. There are stories of arrogance in health services, there are stories of care failure in the first-line service, and there are stories about people who meet a welfare society and a help offer through Nav without understanding. There has been a markedly low research priority on a major disease, with an estimated 9 000 to 18 000 people in Norway, i.e. those diagnosed with ME. It's up to 100,000 if you take those that have fibromyalgia. When I mention this, it's because there's a lot of equality and relationship between these diagnostics that it's almost hard to distinguish – and many have both. There have been strikingly small research priorities, because at some point this stamp was given as some imaginary mental illness – it was stamped by many health care professionals who have pushed it away, despite the fact that it is now very clear that it also has somatic causes and reasons. Once Flie and Mella have spoken, they have, among other things, said that what may have shocked them the most, is that part of the patients they got into when they were going to experiment were sicker than many of the sickest cancer patients they had ever seen. Yet they have been kept hidden, they have been gone, they have not experienced getting help. It is also encouraging to read the SINTEF report published earlier this year, which four years after the previous SINTEF report on care provision for those with ME, concludes with almost the same thing as it said in 2007: there is a lack of curative treatment, there is a lack of suitable treatment, rehabilitation and care provision for the group, lack of social, welfare and health care knowledge, few municipalities have needs-responsive services, more health businesses have no specific health services for this group, and there is a lack of competence and lack of provision for children and young people. In Norway, therefore, there are children who sleep in the dark without being able to follow education or do any of the things that children should do, and who are not offered. These conclusions were also included in the 2007 report. So there has been no improvement from 2007 to 2011. That should have happened. What's going on? This is a disease that has not been given status, it is a disease that has been stamped, it is a disease that, because the cause of it is not known, has not come through, and that has become so controversial in the root causes of what it may be, that many of the research communities have just protection to participate in the development of services and assistance. It's arrogance. No later than two days ago, I received a letter from a family who now felt that they were being deprived of care allowance from Nav, despite the fact that they have a child who is in a bed and needs care, because one does not feel that this qualifies for the care system. What are we going to do to get on with it? It is good for the government to set up 2 million. kr to continue the research project to Fluge and Mella. But it'll probably take more than 2 million. If you really want to make an effective effort to do so. What's my intention of this interpellation, too, is that there are many other treatments that are currently being tested or tested. Some of them don't have good results, others have good results – indicative of who it is. Maybe that's because some of the results are coming, among other things. of not having the same diagnostic groups and using the same type of diagnosis and diagnosis to determine who is to participate. But we need to review all the treatments that are currently used to ensure that they are good, to make sure that they have results, and to begin to phase out some of them. For many years in Norway, these patients have been sent to cognitive therapy, i.e. psychological assistance, psychiatric assistance, which may not now prove to be the best, but for some it may have worked. It is then important to take a grip on this and to ensure that all treatment methods given are reviewed with the same strict focus on whether they produce results and that they are followed up by research. For example, Nav pays. money to participate in the so-called Lightning Process. It's a system that relies a lot on cognitive therapy, but it's not a medical system. However, it must be a qualification for research to assess the results when the public is involved in paying for them. I'm not against some solutions, I'm just because we're now getting into another track, where you set the same clear requirements for all parts of this treatment, and where you give research priority to following up and evaluating the results, each of them. There is also a situation in which many patients have thought that they have received good help from the Lille Stromklinik, which is now being questioned by the Health Directorate if they can document the results. Perhaps our answer should have been to use money to find out if the results are actually there, and to make sure that we contribute to the research assessment of the results. In addition, much more research is needed on cause, not just on treatment issues and to move on to get it done. That is why I believe we need to create our own programme that is stronger than the government has set up to follow up on ME. I do not think it is a party political matter. I hope this is a matter we can agree on in Stortinget to have priority. The background that we should now do something and apply more to this is the size and failure of sins over so many years in the health care system. This is a group of patients who have experienced mistrust, who have experienced mistreatment, who have experienced being stamped with psychiatric diagnosis and sent to psychologists and psychiatrists who have said that nothing is wrong with your head, but who have experienced that there is no one interested in finding answers. Then is my challenge to the Council of State: Will she now be willing to have a completely different research, rigorous follow-up to the treatment methods and care services and talk to her other colleagues, not least to the Minister of Labour, to ensure that even the families who are still struggling do not experience double pressure, both not to get help and to be deprived of the opportunity to provide help themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2037	People affected by ME and fibromyalgia should, like all other patients, be provided with good health and care services. All patients shall be treated with respect and all healthcare treatment shall be knowledge-based. It takes time to build up good services. It also takes time before available knowledge and information reaches all health workers who meet these patients. I want all patients and relatives to meet with respect and understanding. It is not the individual’s diagnosis, but the individual’s need for health care and assistance to determine which services are to be provided. In recent years, I have given regional health companies guidance signals in the Mission document on prioritising the provision of services to patients with ME. The Ministry has also asked the Health Directorate to draw up a circular or guidance document on the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with different degrees of ME. This newsletter is about to be completed in these days. The representative Solberg's description of the patients in the introduction I share very strongly. Nevertheless, I believe that there has been a positive development in the service offered to patients with ME. Unfortunately, however, there are still considerable variations in the supply between health regions, and there is a significant potential for improvement. This was reflected in the January 2011 Sintef evaluation. A knowledge summary did not give any clear conclusions on diagnosis, cause or effective treatment. It is difficult to establish good offers and to inform about follow-up when the knowledge base is lacking. Since 2007, it has been granted 25 million. kr to strengthen the offer to people with ME. The Directorate for Health manages these funds. National build-up of competences has been important. The funds have gone to information measures, professional development projects and regional experience conferences on ME. The first conference took place earlier this month, with positive feedback. From 2012, the Ministry will establish a new national competence service for ME in Health South-East. Competence services shall build up competence, disseminate knowledge and provide guidance to the entire healthcare system. They shall also monitor and disseminate treatment outcomes, participate in research and education, establish research networks and contribute to the work of national guidelines. A few weeks ago, the press said that patients with ME have improved after treatment with cancer medicine. It also mentioned the interpellant. It's a pleasure. The study shows this, carried out by two cancer doctors at Haukeland University Hospital. Despite good results, they stress that treatment is still at the research stage. So this is not an approved form of treatment. It is important that we get several long-term clinical studies, so that we can establish safe knowledge of the effect of this treatment. Only when it is done can the method be considered to be in use as established treatment. So I want to label 2 million. kr for a multi-centre study at ME through Health West in 2012. It's an overdose of women who get the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The gender perspective shall be taken into account in all research. The National Centre of Competence for Female Health was established at Oslo University Hospital in 2006. The Centre has a significant research activity and some outlying activities related to the dissemination of competences and education. The Ministry has recently reviewed all national services. Following a comprehensive assessment, we will continue the National Centre for the Competence of Women's Health and several other national centres of expertise on diseases particularly affecting women. The government wants patients to have access to new forms of treatment with sufficient evidence of efficacy. That is why we need to establish a new system for introducing and following new methods in the specialist healthcare service. The system is based on systematic methodological evaluations being carried out before introducing a new method as established treatment. This will also ensure that inefficient or harmful methods are not used and that old methods are phased out. Participation in experimental clinical research studies may be an option when no established treatment is available. The assumption is that the patient meets the criteria to be included in the study. Exploratory treatment means that there is insufficient scientific evidence of benefits and adverse reactions. Such treatment should therefore be provided through a clinical research study, to be approved by a Regional Ethics Committee. The Ministry is working systematically to strengthen the infrastructure and scope of clinical studies. Through the Nordic Council of Ministers, we are in favour of cooperation on clinical studies. The aim is to strengthen the Nordic region as a competitive player for the conduct of both industrially funded and publicly funded clinical studies. The representative, Solberg, asks if I want to give priority to research into treatments for ME and fibromyalgia and to ensure that all treatments are subject to objective and comparable research. There has been a significant increase in funding for health research in recent years. Since 2006, funds from my department to the Research Council have increased from 163.5 million. NOK 273 million. kr in 2011. The funds include: for a programme capable of financing all types of clinical studies, including: on alternative treatment. It is also a dedicated commitment to research into women's health. In addition, significant resources are used for clinical patient-oriented research in healthcare companies, totaling over 2 billion. kr. The earmarked subsidy to health enterprises for 2011 is SEK 473 million. kr. In addition, regional health enterprises use their own funds to finance research. This means that there are funds available for researchers to apply to projects related to ME and fibromyalgia. This results: For example, the study on cancer medicine in ME treatment was funded by Health West. I believe that the measures mentioned make it visible that we are working systematically to ensure that patients receive scientifically documented treatment services. However, I see the need for objective and comparable research to apply to all diagnostics. The ongoing work on establishing a comprehensive system for introducing new methods into the specialist healthcare system will also benefit patients with ME and fibromyalgia. I am happy to announce today to the Stortinget that there will be a separate national competence service at ME, which will have research and competence building as its most important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2071	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that there is more focus on both following up the ME study that has been done and providing more research and development in this area. But I want to underline one thing: the challenge of general schemes where you can apply to go through treatment methods and research on them will often be a conflict around which methods researchers will be interested in, and who comes with the best projects. The challenge in terms of ME is that it's one of the lowest-status diseases we have right now. We just have to take that over. And with as much controversy as it has been, fewer researchers will go into this area. When an area has a low status, sometimes the most important thing we can do is to earmark funds for it, to say that we politically believe that this should have a higher status than it has today. I think the Council of State has to consider establishing a proper programme to evaluate all the treatments that are available today, on which public spending money is spent, and which we should know about is working or not working, and compare it with other results, and to say that this is a priority disease to work with. If not the whole story in the nearly 30 years we've been behind ME in Norway and in other countries, the story of how this is a low-priority disease, a low-status disease, covered with so much conflict that very many of the finest doctors don't apply to this. Yes, there are several doctors who have studied at ME, who have said that if they had known how much controversy there was going to be around this, they might never have started at it. This suggests that we need a greater degree of control. That is why I want us to both label money and make a clear programme to review the treatments given today, to see whether they have results or not. If they do not have results, the public must stop doing so. But then we can't wait for anyone to analyse these, so we actually need to get a separate initiative from the Norwegian authorities and from the health authorities to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2080	When we want to build up national competences that are both responsible for research and information and set up the necessary network, it is precisely in order to spread the knowledge that is out, and also to initiate research projects that meet the requirements that I hear the interpellant has mentioned twice, namely the importance of what you do is knowledge-based, and that when you apply a new method, it should also be knowledge-based. That is why we in the ministry are about to introduce this method, which should be much more systematic than the one you might have had – that hopefully it is more systematic and that you will be better able to do it now. For it is important to assess which methods work and which do not work. Once we've labeled 2 million. This is precisely because this is a work that Haukeland University Hospital has prioritised alongside everything else. There's expensive drugs there's talk of trying out. It is therefore important that they be able to continue that part of their work, and therefore it was important to provide additional resources to stimulate and contribute to its progress. Then Health West also has a large research budget that can be used in other parts of the research, and hopefully also in ME. Because I agree with the interpellant that this is an area where there are very many unanswered questions and get answers, and we have to do what we can to help the situation of this patient group, which I have experienced that the Storting has been very busy on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2089	It's a very important debate that interpellant Erna Solberg is currently travelling about a very vulnerable patient group. Patients who have been diagnosed with ME or chronic fatigue syndrome have usually been ill for a long time. Most have gone through many different investigations to rule out other diseases. Not so few have experienced – as the interpellant was in it – not to be believed when they have come with their medical history. It's bad to be hit by one of those too many debilitating diseases. Even worse, it must not be to be taken seriously when you are ill. Fortunately, the attitude is somewhat different today than just a few years ago. The understanding of the nature of the disease and its impact on the lives of the individual patient are much better today. As the Council of State said, those affected by ME and fibromyalgia have, like other patients, demands respect and understanding and, of course, offers of good and adapted treatment. Most women and mostly young or young adults get ME. Because it's hard to find concrete, measurable guidelines for diagnosis, it usually takes a long time to figure out that's what the patient is suffering from. Of those affected, approx. 10-15 pst. so sick that they almost become nursing patients. Fibromyalgia is also a disease that most often affects women, and as ME this is a disease with unspecified symptoms, where the research approach has been difficult. That is why I am pleased that the government has given clear direction signals that the women's perspective in research should be taken into account. This could contribute to new knowledge, both about these two diseases we have on the agenda today, and about other sufferings that particularly affect women. It's very good news we've now received about the very promising results that cancer doctors at Haukeland University Hospital have published, where cancer medicine seems to have a good effect on patients with ME. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now adding 2 million. kr extra to Health West to enable researchers to continue their work. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government has significantly strengthened health research in recent years, and that this has also provided room for research within ME. Several areas of research are being carried out on treatment methods for this disease, including: at the National Research Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Tromsø. Provision to ME patients has been established in several health establishments, including: at learning and mastering centres. The Children's Department in the Rikshospitalet has established a unit for ME, which investigates and follows up patients. We have also established a national network of doctors with special competence for this disease. However, as both the Council of State and the inter-pellant mentioned, a report from SINTEF shows that there is too much variation between health companies in the supply of patients. That is why it is very positive that a new national competence service for ME is now being set up from 2012, which is being added to Oslo University Hospital. I'm also glad that next year's government budget is worth over 40 million. SEK for regional health enterprises – for the building of competences and the sharing of competences by the 25 new national services we create. Rehabilitation aid, rehabilitation or other social security benefits have been difficult for ME patients in the past. It has changed over the past few years because we have received qualified ME specialists who have approved medical statements about various social security benefits for these patients. It can help make everyday life a little easier for people who can experience walking from an active, creative life to a situation where they are outside both working life and social life. I also believe that when we now establish a national competence service for ME, this will strengthen the different professional environments across the country that are involved in research and clinical treatment of both patients with ME and patients with fibromyalgia, so that they can gain knowledge of even better treatment and help to these vulnerable patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2110	During my years at Stortinget, I have from time to time dealt with issues around ME. This is a disease that still seems to be a mystery, and individuals struggle to find out in the health system. In addition to being a very severe disease to live with for those who are affected, it seems that the investigation period is unacceptable, and many believe that they are not believed or taken seriously. Years of desertless migration by response and by solution – for those who are working hard. But many may not even seek help, for they lie largely in their bed, in a desperate attempt to keep light and sound away. With pain, these are totally dependent on relatives who pay them 24 hours a day. Aids, relief, care pay and care allowance – it is an eternal fight against the system, day in and day out, month after month, year after year. We hit people in many different ways. Individual treatment is required. A system that captures these differences is not in place. Competence and supply are very different from health region to health region. Some municipalities have acquired knowledge, others do not. The same applies to Nav offices which are required to assist more effectively. Some time ago, several of the big business representatives were invited to attend a documentary showing the daily lives of some of these people. The film made a strong impression, but it also gave an even better insight into how important it is that this mystery be solved. The problems and challenges lie ahead. These people need help, they need it today, but they know they won't get it. Despite the fact that the disease has been known for decades, what triggers it and what is the right treatment is still being pinched. Several offer their services: Lightning Process, general psychiatric treatment, testing, blood tests and a variety of drugs purchased on the Internet at high prices. Many have taken up large loans in their desperate search to recover. In the recording of the work on this article, I checked the Stortingen's statement with ME. Many years back, debates can be traced, and written questions from a number of representatives from most parties to an innumerable number of ministers. It hasn't lacked commitment from this house, and I'm glad. However, not much has happened. The learned ones fight the same amount. Some get better by one, while others get better by something completely different. One problem has been that the disease is hardly recognised as a disease. It's a mental disorder, it's heard by many – imagining hears others. The investigation takes years. I asked myself a question to the Minister of Labour in 2008 on behalf of several people who had experienced falling between two chairs during the investigation of their disease, and who had ended up completely without income. That knowledge of this disease becomes better known is important for the problem around ME. I hope that we have at least taken a step closer to this, and that this has resulted in the benefits of sickness benefits and redundancy benefits for these people – even though I record that the representative Davøy has reopened the issue less than a year ago. As politicians, we have recently received some enquiries after TV 2's report on 19 October about the spectacular research results from Haukeland University Hospital. The results show that two thirds of those who received the drug experienced improvement. ME-sick and their relatives are very excited, but also worried. They know that things take time, and they're busy that these new findings get appropriations that make it possible to work ahead of time. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Health has today announced an allocation of 2 million. kr for follow-up and further research on these findings. As a politician without medical competence, I find it difficult to draw conclusions or know what is right or wrong about the disease. I find it demanding to listen to stories without being able to give good answers. These are people so desperate that they grab hold of any new form of treatment that is being launched. Often it seems new to work for a while. Faith can move mountains, and this can help confuse the image of which treatment actually works best. It is therefore good to now establish a national centre of expertise — or service, as the Minister of Health called it. The Progress Party welcomes all good news and progress, and believes it is absolutely necessary and essential to facilitate further research and testing. We have to keep the pressure up! Many of the patients want to be included in trial treatment. The ME-sick dreams of a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2144	It is an important issue that is addressed in this interview, and I am also very uplifted – as is the representative of Solberg and several others – by the research and treatment results that we have received from cancer doctors Flye and Mella at Haukeland Hospital. I think it is very good that the Council of State also follows up by 2 million. NOK so that we can continue this project. We have all received many enquiries from people affected by the disease, and from their relatives. It has, and it does, strong impression, not least the meeting they have had with the health care community. There is no doubt that this is a patient group that has been very poorly treated and that has been a throwing ball in a system where professional disunity and performance have been governing. It's a large group of patients; it's estimated that about 10,000 Nordics have ME. Of these, 300 are children, and at least 50 are seriously ill and are highly nurturing. Disease progression and prognosis are unpredictable. Some may return to work and education, while others may experience a gradual deterioration. There is also a great deal of technical uncertainty about this disease. This is due, inter alia, to: that there is no simple test that can determine the diagnosis and that there is insufficient knowledge of both cause and treatment methods. Of course, there may be some background to the fact that healthcare has taken this disease too seriously. This has to get better. Everyone has the right to be met with openness, dignity and respect. Being taken seriously and being met with respect is important for all people, but has special significance for patients with a chronic, debilitating disease. A work committee appointed by the National Health Care Knowledge Centre evaluated a few years ago the research-based knowledge of diagnosis and treatment of ME. Interview studies showed how patients with chronic fatigue syndrome have experienced conflict-filled encounters and relationships with health professionals, and that their attitudes to the disease and patients have also been of a moral nature. Disease is not only about symptoms and malfunctions, but also about identity. Patients with ME have said that they have experienced stigmatisation and social marginalisation when doctors do not agree on the location of this condition in the medical knowledge system. Patients have told that doctors have expressed scepticism about how patients have experienced symptoms and their perception of cause and effect. Erna Solberg mentioned Jørgen Jelstad's book, They Hidden – and how ME became the most controversial disease of our time. It describes how difficult it is for ME disease to receive a worthy treatment in the public health sector, and it provides evidence of the reluctance of individual professional communities to take this disease seriously as a somatic disease. It also shows how offensive patient treatment can be when one does not understand or respect how debilitating this disease can be. That's a lot of reading. Increased knowledge of the state of health workers, social security and the rest of society can contribute to a better dialogue between treatment and patients, mutually respecting any different perceptions of the disease mechanisms while at the same time being able to establish a common platform for further cooperation. There is clearly a need for more competence development and research, for more information and education, and there is a need for better organisation of treatment provision in the care services of municipalities and in the specialist health service. In addition, better welfare schemes need to be facilitated. ME patients are as diverse as everyone else, and there are big differences in functional levels. Therefore, individual solutions and adaptations are needed. Let's hope that the results of Flight and Mella's research are a turning point in understanding and dealing with ME. But more research is required to increase the knowledge base, and the right has earmarked 5 million. kr in its alternative budget for next year for this research. In conclusion, the Council of State said in its statement that they would establish a service of competence. Earlier today I have heard that there has been a competence centre. I now became a little uncertain about what really lies in it, so I just want to ask the Council of State to clarify what is contained in the concept of 'competence service'.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2175	First, I want to pay tribute to the interpellant, which focuses on a patient group where many live under very difficult conditions. We have one of the world's best health services. Still, someone feels that they don't get the help they need. Norwegian health services have a responsibility to help people who suffer, even if the diagnosis is rare, or we have little knowledge of treatment methods. People with chronic fatigue syndrome have had to struggle for many years to be accepted for their diagnosis. Now many people with fibromyalgia experience the same thing. It is not the individual’s diagnosis, but the individual’s need for assistance to determine the services to be provided. People who have such serious health problems must receive a good public offer so that they are not left to speculative private quick solutions. All those who need it will receive help in Norway, and it is the responsibility of the health service to ensure that this happens. ME and fibromyalgia are controversial diagnosis, but it must not affect patients. In order to prevent these people from falling between chairs, it is important to ensure that good and systematic research is carried out on causal and treatment options. Researchers estimate that there are between 9 000 and 18 000 people with ME in Norway today, and Norway’s Fibromyalgia Association estimates that nearly 150 000 people suffer from fibromyalgia. I am therefore pleased that the government in the state budget is continuing the 5 million-dollar allocation. kr in 2012 to ensure national competence building and to strengthen the offer to patients with chronic fatigue syndrome, in order to alert the Council of State to the establishment of its own national competence service at ME, and to ensure that the Council of State will earmark 1 million. kr to a multi-centre study at ME through the Norwegian Research Council in 2012. Two competent doctors have made sure that we have finally made great progress in research into the treatment of ME. It's important that we in the future be able to give equal priority to fibromyalgia. Although symptoms vary, many people with fibromyalgia experience severe and chronic pain and have unspecified symptoms such as: poor quality of sleep, poor concentration, panic anxiety, depression, headache and dizziness. Nine out of ten people who have been diagnosed with fibromyalgia are women. It is not an unknown phenomenon that so-called female diseases are prioritised in medical research. In this context, it is therefore important to follow up on the government’s guidance signals that gender perspective should be taken into account in all research. National collaborative group on medical and health research will establish a new national effort on musculoskeletal disorders, injuries and diseases. It's hoping that this will benefit fibromyalgia patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2197	I would also like to thank the interpellant for this important interpellation. This is – as I know – the third ME interpellation held in Stortinget. The first was held in March 2007. At the time, my starting point was that people with ME were not believed to be in contact with the health care system, and that they did not get the help they needed. There was a great lack of treatment. I could have actually sent the same interpellation to the Council of State today, almost five years later. Many – too many – experience the same thing today. Almost every week I get enquiries from ME-sick or related to ME-sick who don't know their poor advice. I cannot say that there has been a lot of professional or research in Norway in recent years. The professional environment is still fragmented. Doctors use different criteria to diagnose, which means that many very ill and completely nurturing people are left to relatives, isolated from society. They're simply given up. The Sintef report makes this clear in a very concrete and direct way. My concern over the last few years has been the most ill-fated ME patients, the totally nurturing. It is almost impossible to understand how sick they are and that, in many cases, our healthcare system does not set up – but has given them up. Other ME disease may not be so sick, they may be able to stay up for a few hours a day, or lie on the sofa most of the day. Someone manages to move out a little bit, maybe to have to rest for days afterwards. Something has happened: Some people are believed to be in some places, some families have been lucky and have received care allowance, the BPA scheme, some sick people have had temporary disability pension. But I think I can say that most people have struggled hard to get help, and some of them still struggle without getting help. Many people have used tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, to organize the home to protect the sick completely, or on different types of treatment, and this is difficult when you have a disease that is not understood and that you know little about. The book of Jørgen Jelstad is very important, but it's scary. Actually, it should have been a textbook for all health professionals, because other patients with other diseases in the past, who have not been believed, have experienced much of what ME patients experience today. ME disease needs help, and they need to be believed – today, and we need research. Everyone agrees on that – a lot of research. What has happened at Haukeland Hospital is incredibly positive, and it has given hope far beyond the borders of Norway. If it turns out through further research that ME — and perhaps also fibromyalgia — is an autoimmune disease, yes, then there may also be treatment to receive. But research projects take time, and they cost money, more money than we might afford in this state budget. But I'm very pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative to contribute $2 million. kr. I think that's incredibly important. For the ME patients, it means more than that the money is set off; it also means that they're believed, and I think that's very, very positive. Today, it is only through tried-and-tested treatment that these patients can test these drugs that have produced such good results. We cannot start with this treatment that the Council of State was now in, immediately to everyone. This applies to one area, namely children with ME: The Sintef report also states that there is a lack of skills and offers for children and young people with ME. The Council of State is aware that I had a written question to the Health Council just a week ago, which was sent to the Minister of Labour. The case concerns ME sick children, there are several families who have contacted them that they are now losing the care allowance they have had for many years. Care allowance is, of course, a substitute for income. Mother of a daughter of 12 says that the child has been in bed since 2008. She has not been to school for one day, she has not been out, nor can the sibling visit him. This little girl can't stand anything. She's 12 years old, I guess. In the response from the Minister of Labour, she says that Nav today is based on a list where ME is not listed as a serious illness. Yes, I don't understand how serious it is when you've been lying in bed for almost four years. It's not serious enough, and it's not life-threatening, and she confirms that Nav can take this money well, and that the family gets plenty of time to change. They don't. The money is taken from them at perhaps a few weeks' notice. The Minister of Health must help to reverse this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2217	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives Erna Solberg and Laila Davøy for the great commitment they have shown to ME and fibromyalgia. Because health is one of my many ‘shadow committees’, I have been given the opportunity to become better acquainted with the major challenges these patient groups face. I am one of those who believe that we have a good health service in Norway, and we have a very good health service compared to many other countries. Despite that, there are patient groups who feel that they are not being taken seriously, who feel that they are not being understood. I know this is something ME and fibromyalgia patients feel. I've asked for, and I've got, a lot of recordings in front of this interpellation. Many patients, in complete despair, have evolved into the pure experts. As a politician and a non-expert, there are many words and expressions I don't understand, but what I understand very well is that it's a very great despair associated with these diagnosis, if you can call them that. I am therefore very pleased that in the Left, in all our alternative budgets, we are granting the most money for research of all parties here on the Stortinget. As many people have experienced, there is just research that allows these patient groups to see the future a little brighter. I would quote a parent contact at the ME association and representative of relatives with seriously ill children, by the name of Mette Schøyen. She writes in an e-mail to me: ‘The day’s problem is misdiagnosis and stigmatisation, mistreatment and severe deprioritisation of biomedical research at ME, putting all the ‘weary’ in the same large bag and calling it CFS/ME without using criteria that distinguish the small but obvious physical disease ME from a large group ‘weary, stressed, depressed, burned out, etc.’ Today’s problem is that a grouping within health care, does not recognise ME as a physical, neurological disease. They refuse to use well-established criteria for the disease and have a ‘Chronic Fatigue Syndrome’ diagnosis on all those with prolonged fatigue. In this way you get a large bag full of apples and pears, and they estimate that 2 % of Norway's population has known as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome [[CSF]] One thing that concerns the patient association is that children and young people with ME do not benefit from the competence at the ME centre or the competence service, as it is also called. Once a national competence centre has been established, the patient association believes that this should also include children and young people. So my challenge to the Minister of Health is how she views this, how she sees that children and young people are physically separate from the ME centre. My specific question is whether the Minister of Health will ensure that the responsibility for children and young people with ME is transferred to the ME centre at Aker Hospital under the direction of Barbara Baumgarten-Austrheim, so that children and young people receive the same offer as adults receive. This is a strong wish, both from the patient association and from relatives to ME-sick children. Finally – it is of course good that the government now allocates 2 million. Dr to the two cancer doctors in Haukeland, but more is needed, and more research environments are needed, many of which have been involved. I'm critical that the red-greens have chosen to end the gift-enhancing scheme that stimulates gifts from private individuals in knowledge and research. Finally, I would like to thank again the interpellant who has certainly triggered these millions from the government. I promise that in the left of all our budgets in the future, we will give high priority to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2235	As has been said before, this is a group of patients who are suspected, misdiagnosed, mistreated, and patients have paid a lot of money to test the effects of different alternative treatments — whether manual treatments, medication, therapies or self-help courses. Four years ago, I asked a question to the then state council Brustad. In my explanatory statement, I wrote: ‘When public health services are unable to provide adequate treatment, alternative forms of treatment will emerge and, in the interests of patients, these alternatives should be taken seriously no matter how they may work. As I see it, it will now be right to review serious trials and research to find out what kind of treatments can have a good effect, and it is urgent when we know how many suffer from this disease today. Wide-ranging research will also be important to identify treatments that cannot show any effect but that will only lead to high financial costs for the sick.’ It was after I had been to Huseby and met 30-35 patients who had received a type of manual treatment at the bottom of the cross back, and where it was very good atmosphere and it was thought that this was the only right thing. A few weeks after that, the therapist traveled out of the country, down to the Canary Islands, he didn't get to continue the treatments here. What my question was about that time was: ‘The Council of State wishes to contribute to the self-testing of alternative methods currently paid by the patient in serious research efforts to confirm or invalidate the assumed effects of treatments offered and how the Council of State sees the possibility of setting up a centre of non-traditional treatment [[...]] – a center that might now be talking about today. Governments at the time replied: ‘The Directorate for Social and Health has been given a mandate to lead and coordinate the national competence network for ME. NAFCAM will be involved in this work. NAFKAM has a registry for exceptional disease progression where patients with ME who have undergone alternative treatments and who have marked improvement/deterioration after treatment may submit their stories. This allows researchers to study patient history in the first place to see whether there is a common trajectory regarding treatment.Furthermore, ‘The new competence network will, on the basis of its mandate, take initiatives for research and knowledge dissemination, including in the case of alternative forms of treatment.’ [[...]] So after four years you see that it's happened very, very little. The ME association has struggled to get proper research projects in relation to biomedical investigations and treatment. That's where they pay a lot of money on their own. As for the alternative treatment I talked about instead, some patients and parents had taken up a couple of hundred thousand in loans to provide treatment. They are desperate and desperate, but the public has not wanted to enter into serious research projects. It costs a lot, but it is absolutely necessary when there are so many patients who are affected by such a serious illness. It costs the patient a lot of suffering, and it's also socio-economically expensive that so many people lie and do not get the treatment they need. Now, a lot of people were enjoying the results of the cancer medicine doctors. But there are also many who are sceptical about the side effects of drugs and long-term effects. As for all other treatments, they may have side effects and may have long-term effects. Many of the alternative treatments tested have had an effect on some people at first, and many people may get sicker afterwards. Then we haven't talked about rehabilitation, it's not mentioned at all. The most important thing is perhaps to find the cause of the disorder, as little as possible becomes sick and you can prevent this disease from breaking out. In the next row, when you find a treatment that might work, you have to have a follow-up of the patients, so they don't have a relapse. There are many open questions. It is a pleasure that the Council of State has now granted 2 million. kr, so that they can get on with the research. As regards the research carried out in biomedical investigations and treatment, last year the Knowledge Centre received an urgent mission from the Health Directorate where they were to look into the work of the specialist, the Belgian doctor and the researcher. But the Knowledge Center itself says that research methodology is not good enough to provide a basis for recommendation based on what we know today. Urgent research is being carried out that does not provide safe results. The point of research is to get good results that can give patients an offer that they can get better at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2267	I would like to thank you for the debate and discussion. It underlined one thing, namely that the involvement of ME-sick and fibromyalgia-sick people has been strong on the Storting for a long time. It has been stronger in Stortinget than in the medical environments. It's a significant conclusion that comes from it. I think it's great that the Council of State has outlined as a framework for how to have knowledge-based treatment in the future. But if you're going to do something about fibromyalgia and ME, you have to have political will too. There is a need to have political will and priority, because there is no automaticity in the presence of quality assurance systems, this disorder, this disease, will be prioritised, or the form of treatment for it will be prioritised. It's one of the diseases that's got low status in Norway. The question of what is the cause is contentious; there are too many who have simply fallen in love with their own methods within the medical world and their own diagnosis. Therefore, there is no transparency and priority. That happens, that's part of the evolution we always see. Then it's important to see that you also need to have a political focus on it. I think Vigdis Giltun's examples are entirely in line with what is my perception of what the problem is. You can easily find out if a method does not produce good enough effects, but you should take some time to see if it produces effects. That the medicine we now see works in Haukeland's trials is going to be the solution, is not likely, it's not likely that it will be the future solution. But it's given a big and important indication that this can be an autoimmune disease, that the immune system has begun to whack and fight your body, that it's one of the things that makes you as bad as you get, and that it can be different kinds of help. It's a step further. But there are a third of those who have been treated, who have not had a response. Then we are back to some of the things that have been the problem, namely that the diagnostic criteria have been too knowledgeable. It is then important that common diagnostic criteria are now established. It is well possible that what is today called ME and fibromyalgia are bag names that may in the future have both three and four different medical diagnoses behind them – that there are different diseases, but that they are very similar in symptoms and effects, but that there will be different things that will result. There are diseases that are similar to this, that have been diagnosed. If you see what people with intolerance react to gluten, it reminds me of this. There are many other diseases that remind us of the same course. The truth about medical research is that there are many things we don't know yet. Fortunately, there is optimism that we can find out more, but a political priority is needed if it is to happen to ME disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2278	I mean the interpellant has something very important in his last post, when she says that there might be a lot of different diagnosis, as there are different reactions to the trial that has been in Bergen, to get medicine. What is at least important is that all of these patients are taken seriously, so that you can't find out that there can't be any diagnosis that's known, that affects any of them. At least that's very important, and then you have to go further into the unknown. I am at least very happy that in Health South-East and in Oslo you have applied for this service of competence, you have applied for it to be established. That means that we have someone who will monitor research, an environment that can drive communication. The point is that they should not only interfere with the specialist health service, but also with the primary health service. It's going to be very important in the future, because we've heard in Stortinget before, when we've had this discussion, about patients who've also been too sick to be admitted to the hospital. Often we can say that in Norway we are so slow about other countries that we do not use things. But here it's not very much to rely on internationally either. On the contrary, the research that took place in Bergen has raised international awareness, which many people have had, and it is at least important to be able to continue that study and see if you can find not only a medicine that relieves someone, but that you can also find a cause. So a little bit to Giltun. We've heard a lot of stories about different treatments. I do not take a position on any of them, but I am very concerned that what we recommend, and what we go on with, should be knowledge-based and safe. Then you have to make a case-by-case assessment of alternative treatments. I have also received enquiries from patients who experience the meeting with Nav as extremely demanding. The Health Directorate has been in dialogue with Nav. I will at least promise that I will bring this interpellation to the Minister of Labour, because I fully agree that we need to get something further. The research that was in Bergen was a very great inspiration to continue. We have to make sure that we keep the pressure on these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2293	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2299	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2307	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2320	First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the families with the worst means of payment are provided with income-adjusted payment schemes.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2337	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the mandatory mandatory language mapping of all children after the age of three, in kindergarten or in the health centre, in order to identify any need for assistance to ensure that the child is optimally prepared at school start.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2352	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to set up its own innovation prize for kindergartens to stimulate more innovation and innovation in the kindergarten sector.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2373	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the regulation on equal treatment for the award of government grants to non-municipal kindergartens, in order to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is followed.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward proposals for re-recruitment strategy in order to bring more pre-school teachers who are now working outside the kindergarten and education sectors back into kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a strategy similar to ‘Quality Competence’ for schools, for those working in the kindergarten sector.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a more flexible childcare admission regardless of when the child is born.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2408	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2416	During the debate Øyvind Håbrek has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit to the Stortinget a proposal for an obliging escalation plan for the municipal music and cultural schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2427	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2472	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-28.ana.ud691e2563	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
