ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e80	The representatives Dagfinn Højbråten and Bjørn Lødemel, who have been on leave, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Uppland County, Johannes Rindal, has taken the seat. From the Workers' Party's Group, an application has been submitted to the representative of Arild Stokkan-Grande from 22 November onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Bård Langsavåld, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e111	Bord Langsavold is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e119	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e122	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vogskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions for a better everyday life for professional drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e141	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e157	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies by the main speakers of each group and six lines with replies by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e166	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement given in the Storting last week. Otherwise, I will start at the same place in this debate that I started in the debate on the presentation in May of this year – the last weeks, and in particular the developments of the days in North Africa and the Middle East. The growing unrest and violence in Egypt, in which 30 people must have been killed and nearly 1800 injured only during the last three days, gives rise to great concern before the parliamentary elections of 28 November, if they can be carried out at all. The demonstrators have found their way back to Tahrir Square and express great frustration at what they think is the coup d'état of the military regime. The government sent yesterday its dismissed request, and it is unclear whether it will be taken as a result of the military council, but the violence has increased as a result of this over the past few hours. At the same time, we have seen a strong increase in sectarian violence as well. It has particularly affected Coptic Christians. The hopes of the revolution have not been fulfilled, and because there has been no political clarification, the economic situation is very difficult. This leads to increasing frustration, and such frustration we know can cause further unrest among a very young population, who need education, work, income and belief in the future. It was not unexpected that this transition process would be difficult, but I find it appropriate to mention it precisely in this context because it so much also affects the immediate neighbourhoods of the EU. On either side of the Mediterranean, a popular uprising has led to governments and presidents in six countries having to leave. The background of the uprisings is not entirely without similarity on the two sides of the Mediterranean. Anxiety and lack of economic development affect refugee and migration flows into many hard tried and tested EU countries, and it is essential that countries are able to deal with this. EU neighbourhood policy will only become more important in the light of developments in the region. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time describing the economic situation in the EU and the euro zone in particular. From the right-hand side, we're dividing the analysis he gave. There is little doubt that the economic crisis in the euro zone also affects Norway. Lower demand leads to lower prices of salmon and aluminium, and Norway’s largest bank now has to say no to new loans to business customers because deposits are more difficult. In Greece, Italy and — yesterday — Spain, the last weeks of the crisis have brought about changes in government. Yesterday, the message also came that Hungary’s economic situation has deteriorated rapidly, with a sharp increase in debt in a short period of time. At the same time, growth prospects are very low, and Hungary is now asking the IMF and the EU for emergency aid. The representative Jan Tore Sanner will also talk about the economic situation in his post, but let me link some comments to this initially. This is a crisis of great national variation, where the starting point is very poor policy choices and some practices in individual countries that do not meet the minimum requirements. So it's not like the whole of Europe is as hard hit. In this situation, I have to say that it has been striking to hear some representatives of two of the government parties, SV and the Central Party, expose a small amount of clothing damage to the situation you see in Europe, and also believe that it is solely due to the EU or the euro. There is a perspective that points to a lack of understanding of the crisis, of the causes and of the solutions. Most of Norwegian exports go to the EU. If demand in the EU drops dramatically, it will have major consequences for us and for our future well-being. It is clear to the Right that the solution to Europe’s problems needs to be found precisely through coordination and cooperation. That is when the European Union is a crucial factor. Today's crisis is simply too big for individual countries to deal with alone. On the right, we are pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has so clearly dealt with the parties in his own government that, in the wake of the crisis, his average looks to put his shine number on the track, namely to cancel the EEA Agreement. To the NRK, Mr. Støre said on 17 November: ‘I believe that at a time when the economic crisis raises questions of predictability and job security in Norway, the EEA Agreement is of even greater importance than before the crisis. I believe that the agreement is more important for Norway today than in 1994.’ When the EU is emerging, the interest and involvement of the EEA are also falling. I've said it before, and I'd like to repeat it: the EEA is our lifeline to Europe. That is why there is a need for a strong defence of the agreement. It's really incomprehensible, at a time when the Norwegian export industry is actually struggling on many fronts, that some can seriously suggest cancelling our main trade agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that the sense of ownership of the European cooperation project is being tested. It is a statement that both Svein Roald Hansen and I, who were present at a COSAC meeting in Budapest at the end of May, were confirmed. There, the European Parliamentarian György Schöpflin made a thought-provoking contribution. His main point was that there is a lack of a European political identity, although cultural and sociological identity has never been stronger. Political loyalty, he stressed, lay primarily with individual countries – not with the EU, not with Europe. He spoke of a decoupling between the peoples of Europe and, in part, what the EU is now doing. This decoupling between cultural and political identity has given rise to many manifestations, and it may be particularly pronounced in the field of immigration. He asks whether there is a real will to restore a European political awareness where one sees that European interest is also a national interest. The challenges he points to are, of course, reinforced in times of crisis. On the positive side, we note that despite this, there seems to be a willingness to join forces on increased investment in education, research and innovation through the Horizon 2020 programme. It is very important to ensure Europe's competitiveness. Let me say as President Barroso of the European Commission said: investing in young people is the best business plan available. This should also be a wake-up to Norway, for Norway is lagging behind in education, innovation and knowledge. In a very recent NIFU report, Norway is the only country in the Nordic region that is not yet reaching Europe’s research goals. Let me finally comment on two individual things. In general, my impression is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not gone so deep into the issues that have been problematic in the EU-Norway relationship. Discussions with the EU on the Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive have not become simpler in the light of the economic crisis. In particular, the fear of a higher level of coverage in Norway than in other countries has been shown to lead to a move of funds to Norwegian banks. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What is the position of the Council and the Commission? Very well known, they have expressed greater scepticism than the European Parliament has, to the Norwegian positions and the Norwegian requirement. The question of the third EU postal directive remains unresolved. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the matter was dealt with in line with the procedures of the EEA Agreement and that the consultations had not fundamentally altered the government’s view. The question then arises to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What concrete aspects of the Postal Directive have the Norwegian authorities identified as unacceptable in the two fact-finding meetings that have been carried out? Has the EU page at any time indicated what could be the consequences of a Norwegian reservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e210	I share in many ways the representative Eriksen Soreide's reflection on the importance of the EEA Agreement to Norway – that it is our lifeline to the EU. On the other hand, I am somewhat more in doubt as to whether the way forward in EU cooperation is going through further and greater integration, greater coordination and even more cooperation. I find this interesting in relation to the call for a European identity, which I see as the reason why the Norwegian population has twice said no to membership. But the most interesting thing is perhaps the question of the solution to the economic crisis, and then I have to remind you that Iceland is in a special situation, which makes me want to comment that [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e217	I had some problem perceiving the question. Nevertheless, let me use the minute I have, to link some reflections to some of the representative Gullvåg denominator. It is quite clear that in times of crisis, of course, the market for closer integration and deeper cooperation is also more difficult for many EU countries. We note this in the discussions on, for example, the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, the high level of discussion – it is also possible to sign by the representative Sven Roald Hansen – in the meetings we have had, whether it makes sense to do so, and the high level of resistance, also because you do not know what to spend the money on. The resistance to at all imagining the introduction of a tax to enter the EU is quite high. Then it is that identity will vary in strength, depending on what period you are inside. However, I still believe – and I believe that this is completely independent of Norwegian polls – that the EU is the largest peace and democracy project in Europe in recent history, and I believe that Norway has every reason to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e226	There is absolutely no joy — at least not in the Centre Party, nor in the SV, I believe — about what is happening in our European neighbourhood now. It's just sad, because it hits the normal family, it hits the common man. But, of course, there must be a debate on the weaknesses, strengths and challenges facing the EU. That's why I have a line for the representative Eriksen Soreide. Erna Solberg said in 2005: ‘For me, Norway will eventually become part of the euro cooperation of EU membership as a more important and important argument.’ Does the representative Eriksen Soreide agree with what party leader Solberg said in 2005, that we get the euro, become a more important and important argument that Right wants us to become a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e236	It should not come as a surprise to the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, that the Right is in favour of full EU membership. Our attitude has always been that then we also want a membership that links us to the euro zone. I think, to the extent that it is more interesting to note the argument that the Central Party has made recently, especially about those countries in the euro zone that are struggling a lot, with high levels of indebtedness, and that may have come under false assumptions. If you go back to the discussion – backtracking – when economic and monetary union was established, it was no-side that was the toughest on the track, which demanded that the strict convergence criteria were not so strict, and not least claimed that the rules against large public deficits were too strict. It's funny now in retrospect to see that it's just those countries that have run out of government deficits, and that may have had even greater public deficits than they stated, which are struggling today, where there has been a government shift and a major economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e243	I got some kind of déjà vu feeling during the post of representative Eriksen Soreide, because it was the job of a new EU fan. When I say dejà vu, it's because I haven't listened to so many of the last few years in Norway. I know they exist and they definitely exist in other European countries. I think well from my youth, at the beginning of the 1990s, as there were many who kept powerful contributions of this kind, e.g. that the solution to most of the EU’s problems was more EU and the need for a common European identity, despite Europe’s lack of common languages, common public, common interests, a common labour market – yes, all the things that make it rational to have e.g. a common foreign and fiscal policy. The representative also said that SV exposes a small amount of clothing damage to the economic crisis and that we say that it only has its cause in the EU or in the euro. Can it document where a leading SV has said so, by quoting or referring to a specific article or speech?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e250	It is true that in times like this one should be happy that there are some declared and enthusiastic EU followers. I may think that it is particularly important for Norwegian interests that some people now stand up and have a strong defence of the EEA Agreement, have a strong defence of the EU, at a time when SV is the party that has still programmed to terminate the EEA Agreement, Norway's main trade agreement. It is therefore important that we, who are on the yes side, who believe that the EEA is important, and perhaps more and more important at a time when Norwegian industry is also facing the same problems that European industry is doing, actually stand up and defend what is our lifeline to Europe. There have been many discussions, both on radio, on television and in newspapers, where it has become quite clear that both the SV and the Central Party have wanted us, of course, to take a different line from the Norwegian side, in particular by cancelling the EEA Agreement, but where there has also been a fairly clear signal that it has been said here that this is due to the EU. And you're not so very sorry about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e257	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e261	First, thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and comprehensive presentation. There are two crises that unfold in Europe now, economic and political. The economic is the acute, but it's possible to solve. If you look at the EU countries as a whole, the debt burden is about 95 pst. of gross domestic product. Bringing this down to a sustainable level, 60 pst. GDP is affordable, but then one must overcome the political crisis in the countries that are most deeply in debt. The measures adopted must be put into practice and if more measures are needed, they must be adopted. The hope that the Germans will eventually take the bill must be taken care of. Iceland has shown that it's useful. Politicians took responsibility when the crisis hit. They adopted and implemented strong measures. Now it's going the right way again. Also, other countries that are in debt have many of the same assumptions as Iceland in order to get the economy right back to cool, start economic growth, reduce the deficit and reduce the debt burden. The hope is that the shifts in government in Greece and Italy can produce results, but in this is also the political crisis. The political parties have given up and left responsibility to the experts. It is a crossroads of thought for policy's ability to rule when it becomes really demanding. As seen above, the euro crisis is the deepest political crisis, first by allowing several countries in southern Europe to borrow-funded over-exploitation for 10 years. They granted themselves a level of welfare they did not provide for funding. Secondly, they did not comply with the agreement they had entered into with their neighbours on a maximum debt burden of 60 p.m. of GDP and the maximum government budget deficit of 3 pst. After the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008, most of the countries experienced this, and now there is a lack of ability to correct the shooting itself, in the hope that the neighbor would take the bill. So it is in the countries themselves that the problems are created, not in Brussels. It is in the countries themselves the way out of the crisis must be built. EU cooperation has, in an impressively short time, been geared to a wide range of measures, which will and will be an important contribution to getting the economy right and, not least, to helping countries to maintain a responsible economic policy. Of course, the most important thing is to start economic growth. The unemployment rate we now see, particularly among young people in countries such as Spain, Italy and Greece, is very serious. We don't risk just a lost decade. We are at risk of a lost generation because of the economic crisis. We risk a generation lost to the labour market. We risk a generation without faith and trust in the society they grow into. Although there needs to be a balance between expenditure and income, countries cannot unilaterally cut themselves out of this crisis. Necessary mitigation must be combined with a growth strategy that points forward. Therefore, there is an added concern that the right parties are winning, as in Spain this weekend and as they did in the United Kingdom. Even the bishops are now protesting against the British Conservative government's policy, which is hitting the weakest in society hardest. Norway is the contrast in Europe. The main reason is not oil, it's politics. The keywords are: the rule of action on the long-term use of oil wealth, the conversion to a sustainable pension scheme, a reasonable level of taxation, a fair tax system and, last Friday, 30 billion. kr to help vulnerable export companies through a new export finance scheme. That we are also vulnerable, so we saw in the autumn of 2008. But the policy also worked. The government acted quickly and resolutely, with full support from this room. If we look back to the economic crisis of the 1980s, we will find the value of a large and responsible trade union movement and a long-standing tradition of broad cooperation between workers, employers and authorities. Trustful hard work brought us through the difficulties. It is these things that are the jewel of a social democratic policy. This is what makes us better equipped to face the economic storm that can break out, if neither the technocrats in Rome nor Athens would succeed. That's all we have to have in mind when we're going to discuss next year's government budget on Thursday. Soon we will receive the report on the EEA Agreement and the other, more than 50, the agreements we have with the EU, in the light of the last 15 years. The report will show the success of this agreement. It has ensured full equal treatment for Norwegian business in the internal market, which purchases between 75 and 80 pst. of our exports. The exception is the fishing industry, and we have seen the results of that. The EEA Agreement has given us much more. It is anchored for participation in a wide range of programmes, on research, education, equality, etc. It provides the framework for the Nordics, in line with the citizens of the 27 EU countries, to look to Europe as a whole for work or a place to spend their retirement time and in the countries they may choose, to be treated as their own citizens, with the security they bring. There are still some people who are talking about that the EEA Agreement should be replaced by something else – what it should be now, when over 70 pst. the population says no to what is the only real option: full membership. Some people seem to believe that there is some kind of agreement with the EU that guarantees us equal treatment and all rights, but where we can choose which rules to follow ourselves. Such an agreement does not exist. It's like thinking we can drop the off-site rule for the Norwegian national team in the EM qualification in football – it's only for everyone else. Finally, Switzerland must adapt its laws to EU rules on the internal market in the areas covered by Switzerland's agreements. The most imaginative point to the old free trade agreement as an alternative – the one that mainly covered only trade in goods. It is an old-fashioned agreement, completely inadequate to meet the needs of Norwegian business in our largest and most important market. It is almost as serious that it will endanger the security of the tens of thousands of Northmen who have left the common European landscape for the longest time and who benefit from non-discrimination and security. Last night, we received from the Stortinget Commission’s proposal for regulations on a new programme in the field of justice, and a regulation on a new programme for rights and citizens came to the Stortinget through the new system that we have established through EFTA – regulations to ensure that EU law in the field of civil and criminal law contributes to ensuring effective judicial remedies and redress for people and businesses in cross-border justice in Europe, and to promote measures to combat drugs and crime. These are measures to improve the safety of people and businesses operating in Europe. The security and legal certainty that this creates, our old free trade agreement will not provide businesses or persons. The newsletter from our delegation in Brussels also gave us today a happy news for all cage hens – they will have better room from the New Year, thanks to an EU directive. So the improvement also includes animal health. Those who want to gamble with people's reaction to short-circuiting these dimensions of the EEA Agreement, and the fact that we have to remain in passport control at airports to travel to southern countries, will probably be a surprise to people's reaction. There is only one alternative to the EEA Agreement, everything else is an illusion, at least if you want to meet the needs of Norwegian business. Finally, the EEA Agreement is not as square as many people seem to believe. There are no two choices: take the rules as they are, or make reservations. In cases where the directives do not capture Norwegian reality well enough, there is often room for adaptation. The Gas Market Directive is such an example, where Norway is defined as a market under construction. Other examples are the Tunnel Directive, which gave us access to security measures other than emergency exits, the hygiene package, where we were given special guarantees against salmonella, the Equality Directive, where we could maintain mechanisms that facilitate the underrepresented sex to pursue its profession, and, lastly, the Renewable Directive, where we were given a target that took into account our already high share of hydropower. I hope the EEA study will help everyone to see how comprehensive and deeply integrated we have become in EU cooperation over the 15-16 years since the entry into force of the agreement, what benefits it brings to Norwegian businesses and what benefits it brings to the many Nordics who use the opportunities provided by European cooperation across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e307	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e310	I will commend the representative of his warm defence for the EEA Agreement. One of the intersections of the sea is now the discussion related to the Postal Directive. The government has declared its opposition. There are now consultations – at least there have been some meetings – and there is a process. To the extent that the representative of Hansen can advise on Norway's positions, will his advice be that Norway demonstrates flexibility in this way to ensure that the reservation does not ultimately lead to the termination of parts of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e315	I feel quite confident that the consultation arrangements described in the EEA Agreement, which have been set up to date, will provide a solution that both Norway and the EU can take care of. I also believe that, in the light of the challenges now facing the EU – in the light of the fact that postal services are in the old way as a matter of sunset – this is not such an important matter that it will be a matter of importance in the EEA Agreement if a system is found that is acceptable, in which we are able to take care of the concerns behind the government’s position. We will ensure equivalent postal services throughout the country, even mail and good working conditions in the businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e320	I notice that the representative Hansen is turning on the rhetorical big deal on behalf of social democracy. It is also the case in Norway that bishops are constantly demonstrating against the policies of the Social-Democratic and Red-Green Government. We see that the debt in Europe is fairly evenly distributed, and we might say that a general move is that the voters now look to the right to clean up after, for example, social democracies in the United Kingdom, Spain and Greece. My question is also about the Postal Directive. I believe that the representative Hansen provides a very good and, in my opinion, very powerful defence for the EEA Agreement and for the EU. I'm very happy about that. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that he stated that we would follow the procedures for reservation in the further follow-up of the case from Norway. My question is really very simple: with such a strong defence of the EEA Agreement – given its importance for Norway – why will the Workers' Party and Svein Roald Hansen gamble with the EEA Agreement in relation to a directive nobody understands the problem with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e327	In the United Kingdom, you turned, quite correctly, to the right at the election. But now we see that what we got was very quickly disappointed with the policy that is now taking place. I'm afraid the same thing will happen in Spain. Traditional right-wing policies will not lead Europe out of the crisis. With regard to the Postal Directive, I mentioned other much larger directives where we have found solutions and adaptations that both Norway and the EU have been able to accept. The Postal Directive is of a completely different dimension than these, so I'm sure you'll find a solution. To use the term ‘old-fashioned with the EEA Agreement’ because if you are in this procedure, it is – yes, to take some big words in your mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e334	Let me already point out in the debate that we have an almost touching embrace of the excellence of the EEA Agreement by those who tend to be the foremost ‘spackles’ against the agreement, namely the representative Svein Roald Hansen and the representatives of the Right. Interestingly, when we and Europe are under pressure, the EEA Agreement is good to have – I am not aiming at the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is our most consistent defender of this agreement. But I wonder where it has become of the struggle to join the Union and in the euro zone speedily possible. Is it the case that the representative Hansen has now agreed more with Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who says that we have more fruitful things to do than to work for Norway to have something to do with the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e341	I have to say that I feel very bad about my view of the EEA Agreement, but we may be able to come back to that. I believe that Norway had had an advantage of being part of EU cooperation, but reached 70 p.m. Of the people say they're not interested in it, I agree with the Prime Minister that we have other things to spend time on now. But to believe that Norway’s economic situation would be different if we had joined the EU since 1994, I think it is wrong. The most important thing that has gone wrong in the countries where it has gone wrong is because of economic policy in the countries. In Norway, we would conduct the same responsible economic policy as we have now, and our situation would be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e351	Many European countries have a difficult situation, and the population in several countries has no hope of improvement in the short term. EU institutions seem to be able to address the challenges to a small extent. Governments fall like dominoes, and new leaders must try to meet an increasing degree of desperation. This is what we see in several countries in Europe, a backstop that is not amusing to anyone. So far, we have not experienced that democracy, tolerance and freedom in Europe have been put to serious testing, but we must be careful not to allow hopelessness to give rise to aggression and a reversal of the open order of society that exists today. It is naive to believe that the struggle for democracy and freedom is won for all future, even in our part of the world. One reason why some countries are now struggling is that they have survived, lacked control and acted contrary to the EU’s own financial criteria. It is not that something has come from the outside, for example. from greedy speculators, who have then attacked countries that have been innocent. Unresponsive policies over a long period of time are now being pursued. Of course, it is very unfortunate for the population of these countries, but also in all countries that have to pay the bill in part for others not having control or having granted themselves benefits, it is not coverage for. More than 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, we are uniting Eastern and Western Europe. Now we see that we can get a new distinction, between north and south. Such a distinction could jeopardize the whole idea of the European Union. It may seem that over-integration has resulted in consequences that can help reverse the whole cooperation project. Norway’s contribution to European development is high, and this takes place in many ways, including: through the EEA Financial Mechanism. Here we set up too many countries in Central and Eastern Europe with project support in a number of areas. The themes to be addressed have been identified by agreements between, for example: Norway and the recipient countries. Today’s challenges are in many EU countries, we will ask questions as to whether it cannot be reasonable, together with the recipient countries, to look at whether the funds to be paid should be directed more towards measures that can create growth and thus promote employment. These funds are part of a project in which the plan is planned for too long in the future, and there are many to be consulted. Unfortunately, there is no reason to believe that the challenge of high unemployment and low growth is over with the first. We will therefore ask the government to look at a more targeted form of using the funds. In the class struggle last week, the foreign minister came with a strong defence for the EEA agreement – very good. We share this view. In the statement, however, this is downplayed. Wouldn't it be natural, when the Foreign Minister feels so much about the EEA, that he also shared it with the Storting in such an explanation, and invited the Storting to say his own? In our opinion, it is important that we, who believe that the EEA Agreement serves important Norwegian interests, are clear on that very point and do not push all the debate on this in front of us. At present, rocking by the EEA Agreement is careless dealing with not least Norwegian jobs. The EEA Agreement is by no means perfect; it can frustrate everyone. But walking around and believing that a realistic and at least equally good alternative is easy to get in place just as much as we want it to be strong enough becomes completely unrealistic, and that unrealistics we have to charge. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a comment that today we see a different picture of which system models work best in relation to economic growth. He brings out the Nordic countries and mentions different qualities such as high well-being, equality and strong competitiveness. The representative Hansen was also concerned with some of the same and said fair tax system. When we are going to make such a presentation, I believe that if we are to be a model in the global arena, we also have to promote other qualities, such as low corruption, free media, strong defence of human rights, a rule of law and belief in globalisation. This also belongs to complementing the picture. It's not just the traditional social democratic qualities that make us today look like the quality society that we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e374	The representative, Høglund and the undersigned, share the analysis of irresponsible economic policies in many of the countries that have led to the situation. It was triggered by what we experienced in the autumn of 2008 and exacerbated by the financial crisis, but the fundamental problem lies in the economic policies of the countries. The question to the representative Morten Höglund is this: does he think that the solution to this problem is more economic governance, even at Community level, in a market as integrated as the European market is, or is the solution to leave more to market forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e381	The problem is that a number of countries have spent more money than they have, they have not had control of their own budgets. When large sectors of society have almost been excluded from budgetary control and the governance tools available, for example, have been ignored. The Maastricht Treaty is going wrong. Some of the instruments have been in place. The way in which the euro-zone countries are to set up their governance systems in the future, I think those countries themselves will be able to find out. But when you make such a political project that, after all, you have a single currency, it at least seems to the outside world that you have to have instruments that match it. It's not about the market or about governance; it's just about having something that's adapted to the tools you choose to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e388	The representative, Høglund, made an interesting contribution to a previous debate here in the Chamber, where he opened a discussion on how the EEA Agreement should look in the future. He was as clear in his defense of the agreement as now, but he opened up for it. In view of the fact that, in a short period of time, we will receive a public distribution that goes through the experience of the agreement, it might be interesting to hear whether the representative Høglund and the Progress Party are still open to a discussion about what the EEA Agreement should look like in the future, and about any adjustments and changes to the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e395	Yes, to the very highest degree. At the time when the agreement has started to exist, we see that there has been a significant change, not least in the EU, in institutional and legal aspects. There have been various Treaty audits in the EU system – we now have the Treaty of Lisbon. It is clear that making a quality upgrade – if it is of a technical nature – makes the agreement more adapted to the structure of the European Union, I think we should do an exercise. But I want to defend the basics of access to the EU's internal market, which we have through the EEA Agreement. That is the basic thing I want to defend, and then we can have different adjustments to come up with it, which also means that political Norway can be closer to influencing the European Union. It is at least an optimal goal that I think we should have with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e402	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for an article that is not quite as sure as any of those who have spoken before in the debate have held. It's a little liberating to hear. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, had a line with very strong words, where she said that if you use the right of reservation in relation to the Postal Directive, the entire contract would be put to risk. Does the representative agree that if we use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement, are we in the process of jeopardising the whole EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e409	In principle, we are open to use the right of reservation, if we think it is necessary. We did that with regard to the Data Storage Directive. We believe that the Postal Directive does not deserve the attention given by the government. We also believe that the Postal Directive intervenes in such a significant area of the EEA Agreement that it contributes to creating uncertainty. I hope not the uncertainty that crystallizes itself in that parts of the agreement are out of play. But we don't know. If we are to apply the right of reservation, we clearly believe that we will find other debates that are more important than the government chooses to take up in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e417	Autumn 2011 trembling Europe. Mass work solution has been attached for a long time. Land labored to pay debts, and demonstrations and social uprisings characterize a number of western big cities. We are experiencing a debt crisis, but more fundamentally an inequality crisis – a crisis created by mass unemployment and rising economic and social divisions in the Western world. The current debt crisis has many reasons. First of all, a number of countries have spent money under the financial crisis to get their wheels back on their feet again and, therefore, to be in large deficits now when they were to stimulate the economy with more money. Other countries, such as Italy, have years without economic growth and productivity growth behind them. Countries like Greece and others have spent money on ability and at the same time under-communicated debt and high consumption for others. Corruption and political unculture are also part of the image. At the same time, extensive, but also diverse, demonstrations characterize the streetscape in countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Israel and in many southern European cities. Both the EU and the United States are struggling to deal with debt problems. The answers to this, with new heads of government in southern Europe, are being commented on today's business, where it says that markets have got the best they could hope for, but that's not enough. I want to claim that what we're experiencing now is not only a debt crisis, but also an inequality crisis. Three decades of rising economic differences in most Western countries have weakened the economy, but also cohesion in society. In a country like Spain, a generation of young people grow up with one of two unemployed. Long-term high unemployment has created poverty, but it also contributes to keeping the salaries of the majority of people down. 10 pst. unemployment has been the norm in many European countries. In Germany, the richest tenth has increased its revenues by 31 pst. From 1992 to 2006, while the poorest tenth of the population decreased by 13 pst. in income. Countries such as Italy and the United Kingdom are trapped in spirals with permanent and increasing inequalities that are home to developments in countries. Other countries, such as the United States and Israel, have had strong economic growth during the same period, but the richest take out all the growth. The wealthiest percentage of the population in the United States had about 1980. 10 pst. of the total income of the country. Today, the richest percentage has about a quarter of all income in the United States. People with normal or low incomes have barely increased real wages, while housing prices have risen in many countries, which has created the huge payment problems that we experienced a few years ago. It is not possible to understand the scattered social outrages in many countries without this as a backtrace. Larger class distinction and mass unemployment are negative for a society when it's economic growth, but it's dynamite when the growth fails. That is why another economic policy must be at the heart of the political debate in Europe in the future. Firstly, it is creating educational and job opportunities for all the fundamental concerns of economic policy. It is also fundamental to keeping to small differences and incomes. Secondly, the importance of financing welfare in the future must be greater than the importance of cutting welfare. Tax levels cannot be taken into account if the European welfare model is to be passed. Thirdly, everyone has to pay for that funding. In many countries, we see that the richest get away. Yes, among the Republicans in the United States, there is now an interesting debate, for several of the presidential candidates have opened up to raise American taxes, but only for those with the lowest income. Fourthly, the whole euro has to be debated – it is my clear view that it is one of the contributions to the financial crisis. One of the things that makes it harder, for example. Greece, is the euro. It would be easier for them to combine monetary policy and fiscal policy in solutions if they were not part of the euro area. Perhaps the most important thing is the debt crisis, with credit rating as a thermometer, which is presented in many media. But in European cities, unemployment and inequality are creating crises in the home, in the economy and in the community of many societies. Finally, let me round with a few words about the EEA Agreement and the debate, because there are different and familiar positions in this Chamber. Now, however, there will be a public distribution that I think will challenge us first of all to be able to debate whether it is interesting to make changes – and insofar as the agreement itself in time to come – but not least to keep up with the positive we have seen recently, that individual directives can be discussed for their content and not just as a new EEA debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e448	The representative Svein Roald Hansen said posturing was a sundown service. I'm not going to challenge the representative Solhjell at just that. At the same time, Mr Hansen's representative was reasonably optimistic about the need to reach a solution with the European Union on this matter. Is the representative of Solhell equally optimistic and concerned about using the right to reserve in the postal directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e455	I believe that both the EEA Agreement and Norway will survive the fact that Norway is using the right of reservation in the matter of the Postal Directive. I believe that it is in the nature of the EEA Agreement that the right of reservation can be applied when important interests are at stake, and that we should be able to discuss it on various issues based on the content of the individual cases, as we have done in several important cases in the last year. I see it as part of the package that the EEA Agreement is, which also includes the use of the right of reservation when there are good arguments for it. Personally, I think when it comes to post-transmission, it's going to be like this -- at least I don't want to mention it as a sunset activity -- that people in Norway want to get posts in the future as well. What I believe is the reason for the opposition to the directive is that post-transmission has been threatened six days a week and the monopoly for letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e463	Now the representative Solhjell talked about increasing economic differences in the United States and in Germany. He might have taken the trouble to be a little inside Norway as well. Since he was not involved in the SV's position on the EEA Agreement, perhaps the time has come to clarify: Is there still a target anno 2011 for SV to terminate today's EEA Agreement? If the answer is yes: What should be said – with the Commission's bona fide statement that it is not appropriate for the European Commission to enter into new bilateral agreements – that Norway should be able to achieve better conditions with the EU by cancelling today's EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e470	This is a foreign debate, so it might not be so unlikely to spend most of the time on things outside of Norway. There are many other debates that we are discussing in Norway, but enough about it. The point contained in the SV’s programme to replace the EEA Agreement with another form of cooperation is under way. I and SV think we would have good opportunities if we went into a serious discussion and tried it. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that just as the representative Hansen and others here from the Labour Party are followers of Norwegian EU membership, and we are opponents of the EEA Agreement, the government agrees that we in Norway are not going to seek EU membership and that the EEA Agreement consists in this large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e477	I would like to say to the SV's parliamentary leader that precisely the last summary of the government's policy is an expression of a very wise policy that the Christian People's Party will work for also to continue beyond the next period, when we have a greater responsibility for what is to be the current policy for Norway. But I have a question where I want to take the representative Solhjell on the floor. He says that we should be able to discuss the individual directives for their content without becoming a major issue about the EEA Agreement or not. I want to challenge the representative, Solhjell, in relation to the so-called AV Directive from which Norway has had a derogation and has tried to maintain it. It's been hard. My question to the representative Solhjell is whether he thinks it is a big deal for Norway to take a reservation in relation to this matter in order to prevent us in Norwegian living rooms from being freed from advertising for the alcohol industry in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e486	Yeah, that's an important thing. Let me just make it clear that this is not a prohibition on advertising in Norway, but a ban on advertising via e.g. TV broadcasts to Norwegian soil. However, it is an important matter, because the ban on alcohol advertising seems to me to have been an important part of Norwegian alcohol policy that has been very successful, together with other key instruments such as the Vinmonopolet and the price level, in order to keep Norwegian alcohol consumption low. It's very, very important both socially and in relation to people's health. That is why I have repeatedly stated – and I still believe so – that it is important for the government to work with full force against the EU in order to maintain the derogation system we have today, where we do not have alcohol advertising. I also think that we should consider applying the right of reservation if it turns out that finding a common solution is completely impossible at the end of the day to keep a sensible policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e493	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e496	It has been interesting to sit and follow the debate until now, so I have to do some reflections in the beginning. One is almost surprised that the representative from the Right and from the Labour Party is so blind in the belief that no matter what happens, the EU is fantastic, and that more integration in the European Union is the answer. Then I have to distance myself from the fact that there has been some damage in my party in relation to what is happening in the EU countries now. It is a deep crisis that affects common people. If you like to go on vacation to Spain, you should know that when you meet young people in the street, almost every other person is out of work. Those of us who looked at the Sunday replay a week ago, saw a Spanish family thrown on the street, with kids, mothers, and grandmothers. According to the figures given, there are 200 families who experience it every day. So regardless of whether you are for or against the EU, for or against the euro, no one can enjoy such a crisis, because it is so serious for them, for the ordinary man in the street around Europe. However, in addition to a deep economic crisis and a deep social crisis, we are now in a democratic crisis, and the criticism from the euro-adversaries in Norway is precisely about the introduction of a currency without popular support for it. There was no popular call in Europe to have a single currency, it was the elite who wanted it. In those countries where a referendum was held, the introduction of the euro was largely refused, but it was nevertheless done. But then there was no political force to put in place a political governance tool to deal with a crisis. Now the crisis is here, and one has gone about more or less in desperation to see: how can we now introduce political governance tools? Then European leaders have entered a coercive street in relation to the fact that they now need to introduce more integration, even though the people have never been less willing to do so. The EU has created a system that is self-invigorating in the sense that it must constantly give more power to Brussels to survive, and the European people are increasingly opposed to doing so. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee illustrated this very well by saying that there is no common European identity. It is a common identity which is a premise for democracy, whether you can have a language, a discussion, feel a community and have the will to promise in a common direction. It does not exist, but the EU has come to the conclusion that more of what is wrong must be done, and a boat has been set up without having good enough management tools to do so. But none of us are happy about it, because it is an accident for Europe, and it is an accident not least for those affected by it. So domestic relations: the EU resistance in Norway is record high. That's not so nice. Some of the fine things about it have been that we have had a slightly more relaxed debate on EU/EEA directives in this Chamber. We were talking about data storage, where prominent representatives from the Right, yes-representatives, where the Progress Party, yes-people, dared to discuss the content of the directive. We didn't get a majority in the hall, unfortunately, but it was a real content debate, it was tension, and this hall decided, not because of the sender, but because of what they thought about data storage, what was the result. We are now talking about the postal directive, where the ‘yes’ party of the Workers’ Party is lucky, because they thought it was more important to ensure a good postal delivery than to implement a new EU directive and say no. I think it is a maturing move in the Norwegian EEA debate that we finally start to dry out discussing what we mean ourselves, and what is Norway's, our national interests. It was an important matter for the Central Party to get an EEA investigation, because we want a fact-based debate, and therefore I get a little sad when I hear the representative Svein Roald Hansen say that unfortunately there are no alternatives, there are no improvement points – the EEA is in a way the right answer anyway. But what the government has now arranged for is to get more facts, which allows us in this room to discuss how we can work better in relation to the EEA Agreement, whether we are in favour or against it. How can we safeguard Norwegian interests better, what are the challenges, what is the strength, and what can we do together to better safeguard our country's interests and secure our rule of people in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e510	Flexibility and willingness to compromise are not exactly what characterises the Central Party's European policy. But with the current situation, and the challenging discussion related to the Postal Directive, is the Centre willing to show flexibility and space for action in order to achieve goals without a reservation from the Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e515	We have shown no flexibility in relation to whether we are in favour of or against the EU, but we have shown great flexibility in relation to EU directives, because we have been committed to entering the directives, taking a stand, and most of the directives we have been in favour of. Other directives have been opposed, and then we have said so and had an open and democratic debate around it. That is what we have been concerned about, also in relation to the Postal Directive. We have discussed what we think has been right for the Norwegian postal transport. Then we have come to the conclusion that we believe it is right to veto and ensure a good Norwegian mail delivery. But veto itself is not a goal. The target is the mail transport. So if you can find a solution with the EU once we start this reservation process, and you ensure a good Norwegian postal delivery, that's what's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e520	Let me first express my joy at the fact that Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre makes it clear that the EEA Agreement is even more important now during the economic crisis and is even more important now than in 1994. It is in stark contrast to the message coming from the Central Party, where there is still a different alternative to the EEA Agreement than to membership of the EU. I am delighted to sit in the EFTA delegation with the representative Svein Roald Hansen, and, to put it that way, there is no enthusiasm in the EU for the Swiss solution, and no one believes that there is any alternative. No to the EU has as an explicit strategy that reservations to the EEA Agreement should be used as an instrument to terminate the EEA Agreement. Is there a strategy that also shares the Central Party that the reservation should be actively used to undermine the meaning of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e527	I would like to start by saying that in the Central Party we have faith in the EU as a rational actor, and it surprises me that especially the most right-wing yes-people think that if we claim Norwegian interests, the EU will go into a wretched state of affairs and cancel agreements, make sure that there are no good trade relations between Norway and the EU. I don't think the EU is like that – I've met the representative Sanner in discussions about the Postal Directive where he claims it will happen. As far as our relationship with the EEA Agreement is concerned, it is very clear. We were opposed to implementing the EEA Agreement in its time, and we are still opposed to the EEA Agreement. But we are part of a government with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and it is clear that during this period the EEA Agreement is to be continued. But we believe that although it is firm, we need to discuss the individual directive, just as many representatives in the Right did when we had a debate on data storage in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e535	The representative Battle Force Vedum stated in the line change here that the Centre Party is very flexible when it comes to adapting to individual directives – and we all have an experience that is necessary. But there are some limits to how adaptable you should be, and my question is whether the centre party is willing to be with the Christian People's Party and put an end to opening up alcohol advertising into Norwegian homes, on Norwegian television screens in broadcasts directed from Norway – knowing that we are doing so, the demand for equal treatment will come from the various parts of this capital-intensive European industry, and we will be in danger of having to open up advertising on a much wider basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e540	Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party in its time secured a majority of the EEA Agreement, and some of the consequences we see, among other things. in the case of pressure in the field of alcohol policy. The government is actively promoting the opening of targeted television broadcasts to Norway, from, for example: United Kingdom, containing alcohol advertising. The reason for this is that the government, the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party believe that alcohol is such a social sin that we need to ensure that it is minimised by an alcohol policy that includes price, availability, advertising, giving time and other instruments. This is what will be at the root of the Central Party further: how can we ensure, through various means, that there will be the least possible damage to alcohol in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e545	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e548	Let me thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation. The crisis in the European Union is going from bad to worse. Much is due to the euro, which has both contributed to the crisis and made it more difficult to get out of it. As a euro member, the countries of southern Europe could receive cheap loans on the basis of Germany’s creditworthiness. The result was increasing debt and the suspension of necessary reforms in the labour market and product markets. With the financial crisis, problems emerged — and now the debt crisis is a fact. To get out of the crisis, they need to cut public expenditure and increase tax revenue. Then economic growth is needed. But with the euro as the single currency, the crisis-stricken countries do not get the benefit of falling exchange rates, which could give them more competitive exports and opportunities for new growth. The euro is preventing this. Greece is the hardest hit. It is grossly unfair for ordinary people to take the bill in terms of unemployment and social distress, while banks that have borrowed South Europe irresponsiblely get money back every euro. That is why the debt write-down is good, but it should have come over a year ago – and perhaps it is too small. The contrast to Iceland is strong. Iceland effectively struck itself bankrupt quickly. The Icelandic krona fell heavily in value. As a result, Icelanders have more competitive exports and travel lives, and they now have much lower unemployment rates than Ireland and the southern European countries. In this debate, we have seen that representatives of both the Right and the Workers' Party, who have previously been busy talking down the EEA Agreement, are now speaking up. I think that's good. Many people on the Norwegian no-page should also think about it. I am thinking of those who think there are rosy and easily accessible alternatives to the EEA Agreement. It doesn't. Norwegian companies rely on market access to their second most important export market in line with their competitors. It requires adjustments from all participating countries, including Norway. Some point to the trade agreement Switzerland has with the EU. However, Switzerland also needs to make stringent adjustments in order to gain market access. It's unrealistic to claim something else. The EEA Agreement is not perfect, but it has proved to be a sustainable national compromise. The agreement gives us market access and an opportunity to reserve ourselves against matters that are contrary to our interests, if we have sufficient political will to do so. There is now an overwhelming no-majority in the people. But those on the no-side who are now using this as a springboard to blow up a fight against the EEA agreement are playing political risk. Their line will create economic uncertainty for Norwegian jobs – and political uncertainty can only benefit the Union’s citizens. The new majority are best managed by calling about the EEA Agreement. Since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, Norway has had a derogation allowing for the transmission of ‘specially directed television broadcasts’, e.g.: from the United Kingdom against the Norwegian public — may be subject to the same ban on alcohol advertising as Norwegian television broadcasts elsewhere. The Foreign Minister’s statement has been interpreted as if the government is now willing to give up this exemption clause. According to the view of the Christian People's Party in case, it will be both hasty and unfortunate. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can confirm that the government will not state the ban on alcohol advertising in such targeted television broadcasts to Norway. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs cannot confirm this, I would at least ask that the government do not give up today’s derogation until it has been able to put in place bilateral agreements to ensure the reality of this, so that television broadcasts do not contain alcohol advertising — nor the corrected television broadcasts. There is no urgent need to create an interim free-to-use period for fixed television broadcasts with alcohol advertising. It could undermine the soundness of our national ban on advertising on Norwegian television in the worst cases. The European Commission has recently stated that the Union authorities should be authorised to introduce border controls along the external borders of Schengen, i.e.: also in Norway. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, such a transfer of power is unnecessary. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded that Norway is clearly opposed to this. I expect the government to stand by that position. I believe that it will in many ways undermine much of what has been built up through Nordic cooperation and through the agreement we have in Schengen, which should be developed to safeguard the same interests that lie behind this proposed transfer of power, without going to such a drastic step that intervenes in the free movement of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e581	We see in these days how insoluble the economy, politics and society are linked nationally and internationally. In my view, the EEA Agreement is a very good agreement, good for Norway, predictable, etc. on the markets of the export industry. We now have some things that lie and wake up, as we say in the West. We have both the deposit directive, the temporary agency directive, the postal directive and the alcohol advertising directive, on which the representative Højbrätten was finally present. How does the Højbråt estimate all of this that we now have to sum up in a way? After all, the barrage was strongly rooted in alcohol advertising and the further fate there. But if it is that we do not get the exceptions and bilateral agreements with the individual countries exporting this industry to us, how will the Højbråt then sort out these directives? Is the Alcohol Advertising Directive a fait accompli for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e590	The votes of the Christian People's Party, as the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum recalled, were essential for Norway to have today an EEA agreement on which a unanimous increase is based, although it varies to what extent one loves this agreement. One of the prerequisites of the Christian People's Party for signing this agreement was that we could preserve the main elements of our alcohol policy. This was primarily the case with the wine monopoly at the time, but of course it was a pillar of alcohol policy, such as the ban on advertising alcohol. We are so serious about this that a possible opening of such advertising on Norwegian TV screens, imposed by a process with the EU, breaks with some of the prerequisites for our accession in due time to the EEA Agreement. If the government chooses to go into that line, it will meet a proposal of veto from the Christian People's Party here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e599	I could think of challenging the representative Højbräten on a bit of the same thing as I did after the representative Højlund's posts. He is known as a long-standing and warm defender of and has even shown his love for the EEA Agreement – even if in his position as the one who loves him most, perhaps being challenged after this debate, there is no doubt that he is in favour of the EEA Agreement. We have a selection that will present its setting and look at experiences in a short time. Does the representative of the Højbrätt agree that it may be interesting to discuss adjustments, changes, improvements – call it what will – of the agreement in the light of the experience we have, and not least in the light of the fact that the agreement has changed significantly in its dynamic nature during the time we have had the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e606	The answer to that is yes. We strongly believe in the agreement into an assessment of the experience with it. The two assessments previously made by the Bondevik Government and the Stoltenberg Government, respectively, have both concluded that the agreement has served Norway well. We are very sure that a new evaluation will show the same thing. But the agreement has always been dynamic, as the representative Solhjell points out. This means that we must constantly be willing to discuss the adaptations and developments of this agreement within the framework of our obligations, but also to ensure that our interests are best safeguarded in the time we live in. I am quite sure that with the strong support that it is here in Stortingen to preserve and maintain the foundation, the framework, as the EEA Agreement is, we can also take that debate with great certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e614	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. In the spring when we had the corresponding round here in Stortinget, I remember the representative Skei Grande wished to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs back from Brussels, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs had been saying no to the Postal Directive. Distinguished Grande, as it is very alarming to say no to the Postal Directive, a directive that gives more and more reasonable competition in postal services, as the Left sees it, while welcoming the Data Storage Directive and comprehensive monitoring of all Norwegians. This is a vision that the left is still behind. I would like to remind you that constitutional courts in the Czech Republic, Romania and Germany have rejected the Data Storage Directive. Sweden has postponed the implementation of the Directive one year, and the European Commission has criticised its own directive in the evaluation, which came just a few weeks ago, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs also discussed. So, to some other issues the Foreign Minister promised in his presentation. The first thing I want to mention is research and innovation, where the Europe 2020 growth strategy is at the heart. A central element of this strategy is a fixed-term research objective of 3 p.m. of GDP by 2020. We also have such a measure, but unfortunately we haven't fixed it. As the committee leader said, a few days ago, we received an investigation from the NIFU, which concludes that Norway is the only country in the Nordic region that has not achieved the 3 pst. target. Finland leads the Nordic region, because they use 3.9 pst. of GDP for R & D expenditure. Then Sweden comes with 3.4 pst., Denmark and Iceland with 3.1 pst., and in the last place Norway comes with 1.7 pst. I also find it timely to stress that Norwegian participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and the European Research Programme requires good framework conditions for universities, colleges and research institutions. It must mean an increase in appropriations beyond the level of the day. Director of the Research Council, Arvid Hallén, said, the following after the government’s proposals for the 2012 government budget had been submitted: «University and higher education also have a weak budget to be allocated to research. This puts institutions under strong pressure with increased tasks in higher education and research. Norway can only be strengthened as a research nation if universities are given the opportunity to make a good transition to, inter alia, increased internationalisation. Very tight budgets make this work difficult.» This should give room for a little thought. So another policy area that is important for the Left, namely energy and the environment. The EU's renewable directive is a directive that the Left is pleased that the government has finally come to an agreement with the EU and that can help convert our high fossil energy consumption here too in Norway. The Renewables Directive is good for the Norwegian economy. Energy Norway last year produced a report showing that the green value added in Norway in 2020 can rise to 5 pst. GDP. Very much of this value creation is going to happen where the energy is produced, i.e. in District Norway. Therefore, it is rather disappointing that the government has negotiated our obligations in this directive. In a meeting of the European Commission on 30 November 2009, Minister for Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre said: ‘The case is currently under assessment in the Ministry of Oil and Energy for implementation in the EEA. The Minister of Oil and Energy has confirmed to me that he prioritises the work of the Energy Services Directive, and the Ministry investigates the need for legislative changes and regulatory changes in relation to the Directive, as well as the setting of targets, measurement methods and reporting requirements. It is not yet clear when the Directive will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but we are well in the process of working around it.» The left is impatient in this area, and we believe we have waited long enough. Finally, I should have liked to have mentioned what the Minister for Foreign Affairs started his presentation, namely the economic situation in Europe. However, we have a good opportunity to come back to that on Thursday, in the financial debate, but it is actually so simple: if Europe is not going well, Norway is not going well either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e649	I said a good deal about the crisis in Europe. I think the representative Tenden summed this up well by saying that Europe is doing well is important to Norway. If things go badly in Europe, it is a challenge for Norway both politically and economically. Clearly, the crisis on both sides of the Mediterranean puts these things in perspective. It's about political crises both places. I also find it interesting to note from the representative of Höglund that, in addition to an east-west separation, we also see trends towards a north-south divide politically and economically in Europe. The representative, Mr Solhjell, intended to hear a déjà vu at the chair of the Committee. I must admit that I missed a déjà vu – or a déjà vu that was not there. For the first time in these debates here in this Chamber, the Right is not constantly concerned that the government is not approaching EU membership in all its policies. I think I have got that question in the foreign debate after the European debate after the foreign debate these years, which ironizes over the many shortcomings of the EEA Agreement, and that the goal of moving forward is to move closer to the EU. That question did not come today. I think that is right in itself, because it is not a priority in Norwegian European policy to go that way today. I would like to note the presence of the representative, Højbrätten, and several representatives have said that the EEA Agreement is more important to Norway now than before. This is because it is so extensive — more extensive now than before and covers more areas — but also because we are in a situation where Norway is going to keep an eye on, in a situation of great uncertainty and unforeseeability in Europe, to increase the unforeseeableness of Norway’s situation. We are well advised, but I would like to claim that the EEA Agreement is helping us to do well because it is a predictability of what we propose. I would say that never has the EEA agreement been more important. In fact, I believe it has never been stronger in this Chamber since it was adopted by a three-quarters majority in 1994. So that's how we get an investigation into the EEA Agreement. It's done before Christmas. It comes first for our public at the beginning of January – it may be due to the fact that the sample sits in the hall and follows the debate and does not sit and work. But they have worked hard – we welcome that – and they have contributed to a debate on the EEA around the country for which I would also like to applaud. When that investigation comes, of course, we shall have a debate on all aspects of the agreement. It is also expected to be under tension in the EU, which is confident that this is a technical research report that will provide many interesting perspectives. Last week, at the Council meeting, I noticed that partial investigations were already being quoted by the European Commission as facts and knowledge of the EEA Agreement. We're going to go into the agreement and the investigation and discuss it very frivolously. I believe that it is in no way wrong to discuss proposals that the EEA Agreement can be better structured, in the way it works and in the way in which the EU and Norway cooperate. But I think it is a very bad alternative to spend time discussing the termination of the EEA Agreement and the return to what Norway had at the end of the 1980s. I think the representative Svein Roald Hansen made a very good statement about the consequences of that. The finance minister and I were in doubt about this, with the exception of off-site rules, would help the Norwegian football team. But it's a good picture of how to create inequalities in a market that can be talkative. In the crisis now affecting Europe, it is sometimes asked: What is Norway’s contribution? I think it is important to point to four issues that are now being noted in Europe, where Norway is actually playing a role in contributing to a way out of the crisis. One is the EEA Financial Mechanisms. I note the representative, Mr Höglund,'s desire to target them in a different way, we're going to take that with us. Now we've signed the cooperation agreement with most countries, and those we haven't signed with are in a process these days, so to speak. But I have learned that they are targeted, concrete and deliver results, and in sum they contribute to an investment climate, when they target social and economic conditions. It is one — a significant contribution to countries that need it. The second is that the State pension fund abroad has invested about 30 billion. euro in EU countries, half of bonds and half of shares. These are long-term, patient investments that also contribute to an unstable time – positive. The third is that we have increased our deposits to the IMF so that they are strengthened to contribute to the crisis solutions that the IMF contributes to. The fourth is that we are a long-term, stable and predictable supplier of energy to Europe, most recently illustrated yesterday with the large agreement on gas sales from Statoil to British partners. There were some questions about individual directives. The first thing – and here it was déjà vu – is that the chairman of the Committee talks about we gambling with the EEA agreement once we have reserved ourselves against the Postal Directive. I think we can lower our shoulders and say that that right of reservation – to the representative of the Battle of Vedum – is not a right of veto, but it is a right to reserve, while at the same time having an obligation to work for solutions. The fact that we have the right is important, and when we have the right, it will also be possible for us to use it. The question is raised: what is so problematic? I think I've answered it several times in Stortinget, but let me repeat after the consultations with the Commission: there are two main relationships, as I see it. One is the Post's significant loss of income, and it's a problem when we want to maintain postal services throughout the country. The second is that we have reason to expect the unit portfolio to come under pressure. There's also something that we're concerned about, and the Commission also sees that point. In terms of the six-day burden, it doesn't seem to be the biggest problem, so it's these two other basic issues. Then we will see how future contacts with the EU side will take place in this area. As far as the deposit guarantee scheme is concerned, the government is working hard with the finance minister at the head to promote Norwegian views there. There is a so-called tripartite dialogue going on between the Council, Parliament and the Commission, and we are well aware that we have promoted our views in all three places. We have relatively broad support in what the European Parliament has produced. We have a greater degree of scepticism in the Commission, and we've also mixed up in Council. But we're working on it and trying to use the channels we have, for an important matter for Norway. I have nothing to add about the corrected TV broadcasts, because the government will conclude its position. I believe the reality is that the possibility of obtaining exemptions in that area and changing the EU's position is beginning to clarify itself in the sense that it is not easy – or let me say it this way: I don't think there is a possibility in it, as the EU has stated very clearly on their part. I can assure the representative, Højbräten, that this does not mean that we will not stick to a main element of our alcohol policy, namely the ban on alcohol advertising, but in these corrected broadcasts there are questions as to whether we can follow up in other ways in direct contact with the UK authorities, for example. Here we will keep the Stortinget informed about the conclusion that the government will finally reach. That's what Schengen was. Let me just say that the Schengen Agreement has served Norway well and serves Norwegians who are traveling, every single day. Often we don't think about the meaning of that regulation and what it gives us. There is also a good framework for the way in which we now draw up our own agreements with another country outside Schengen, our neighbour in the north, Russia. What we are talking about, and where we are critical, is the question of reintroducing border control in specific cases, which we believe is a right that countries must have, but where there is a proposal that that proposal should be in the Commission and even in meetings where we are not present. We find that hard to accept, and that's why we're promoting that view. Moreover, we are not alone in this matter; there are many of the Member States of the European Union who share our views on it. Finally, in the debate on the crisis in Europe, it happens in our own European debate that we are turning that crisis into an EU crisis. I think we have to make it more nuanced than that. Part of it is said that the currency has been introduced with a lack of configuration to meet the requirements of a single currency in a complex area. But parts of the jam is also self-inflicted ashore. So here we have a policy in democratic European countries, and we have guidelines for democratic cooperation between countries that have major challenges. I think, in general, that we now have good debates on this also in Norway, debates that do not always fall into an old, well-known Norwegian reference, namely whether we are in favour of or against Norwegian membership of the European Union. However, the recognition, which I too would like to conclude with, which the representative Tende had in mind, that things are going well in Europe, is crucial for Norway both economically and – I would say – in my field of foreign policy. As I said in my presentation, we are not served by a Europe that needs to use more and more of its power to solve internal problems in Brussels and become more and more distant from the major international debates where we have a coherent view, such as the defence of human rights, such as the work of international trade or the work of new climate agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e687	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e690	I want to enter Schengen and Bulgaria and Romania and their entry. Finland has now dropped its reservation, as far as I understand. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that there is now a general agreement to fully include Bulgaria and Romania in Schengen and that the challenges of organised crime and corruption in these countries are gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e695	I support the vision that those countries will also enter Schengen, but I am very concerned that they will enter Schengen in order to comply with the Schengen requirements. That is why I understand that many countries in Europe have been critical and critical of the two countries, especially in the light of what we know about administrative procedures, corruption and the kind of social probes they need to combat. So now it looks like there's a scheme that they can be on their way in, not through one decision overnight, but through a step-by-step process in which they have to demonstrate the ability to enforce the legislation that is. The impression is that Finland and some other countries have been faced with critical attitudes. I don't think they're completely removed yet. That there is a sort of step-by-step process that can integrate the Schengen countries is an approach that we can broadly support. But we are concerned that when you assume obligations, there must be something you can deliver on, and nothing that remains unimplemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e702	We heard the representative Eriksen Soreide claim that we put the EEA agreement under pressure, or the old deal with it, almost, if we used our right of reservation in relation to the Postal Directive. Exactly the same words used the Minister of Foreign Affairs when it came to the Data Storage Directive. I would like to know what is the difference between these two directives, and why one puts the EEA Agreement under pressure, while the other obviously does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e707	I would like to know when I used the word oldble with the EEA Agreement. I'm not sure I've said that. I argued for the Data Storage Directive because I was in favour of it. I argued against reserving the Data Storage Directive because I thought it would weaken Norway's ability to combat organised crime, it would put police and prosecution authorities back in line with keeping track of an internationalized network that uses these technologies, with which we are served. I also believe that the consequences of getting out of the crime prevention work in Europe are greater than they are in what we are now discussing in the postal field in isolation. But I think it was absolutely legitimate to be in a position to reserve itself against that directive for those who were very opposed to it. So I was for it. I was also in favour of the Services Directive, as many were very opposed. It was not because of my right of reservation, which I have been negotiating, and which I defend very strongly, but it was therefore that I disagreed with the view of the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e716	The Eurovignette Directive, recently submitted by the Commission, deals with the possibility of charging heavy goods vehicles for external costs, such as: environmental pressures. The Directive is one of several elements to promote more sustainable transport in the Member States. In Norway, all toll projects are purely financial, without any element of such costs on which the Directive is based. Nevertheless, we still hear from central party councils in this government that the discount structure of the Eurovignette Directive will affect Norwegian carriers. It is also part of the story that Article 7(i) of the Directive, on rebates, makes it clear that this is a question of discriminatory discounts, if any. Nor do we have that in Norway. Nevertheless, this central partisan psychsis is seen against another directive. Does the Minister share the concerns of the central party councils about the implementation of the Eurovignette Directive in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e723	I feel here that the representative straightens the bakery for the blacksmith; the centre party had probably also understood what I mean by that. I get an answer on behalf of the government, and that is that we have an assessment of that matter. These are of the cases where EU schemes are proposed that are EEA-relevant, but are not always consistent with how we are organised on the Norwegian side. Then we have to assess the consequences of this: whether there is a need for changes and adjustments, and how we are going to respond to the request in order to maintain the single EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e730	Many people ask themselves what the finance prince Norway can do to remedy the economic and political situation in Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that Norway is a stable supplier of energy to Europe. Yes, that is good – for Norway at least, but also for Europe. It fills the treasury with income and it on very good commercial terms. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the Norwegian IMF contributions. Yeah, they're at 0.9 pst. by the IMF budget. So they're under our share of the world's trade. My question is this: is the government discussing concrete measures to help Norway remedy the situation in EU countries, which are now facing serious problems, or is it waiting for other countries to take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e739	If the representative of Kristiansen thinks we should do this another way, it would be interesting to hear Right's view of it: if we were, for example, will put Norwegian money into a European crisis mechanism that is not yet clear and clear, or whether it is elsewhere we can contribute. I've been briefed on the areas where we contribute. What we're making available to the IMF isn't fully exploited, so there's not a pressing problem right now. I do not want to use the word ‘financial prince’ about Norway; I reserve my reservation from that term. But I can confirm that the government is constantly discussing both how we are affected by the crisis and how we can contribute. In this way, the Minister of Finance was able to contribute very quickly when Iceland was in crisis. Norway was the leader in finding arrangements in the IMF that secured Iceland. We also did that to Latvia. We have increased our filling in the IMF, which means that we have contributed to the flexibility there. But we must constantly assess this, and we do not have any enquiries now that we have not answered, or that I believe Europe is incomprehensible. Moreover, the investments we make are of great importance within the European markets that need that stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e752	Let me say that I fully support the review given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the relationship to the right of reservation, which is a very important part of the agreement, and which is to be used in a sense, but which is the last instrument we have in relation to a directive or a piece of legislation we disagree with. The Audiovisual Services Directive is a directive in which I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I share 100 pst. the view on the desirability of preventing alcohol advertising on Norwegian television screens. The question that remains with me after what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said here today is: Is it so that in his final assessment of this, the government also assesses the question of using the right of reservation in relation to this Directive? Secondly, does the government consider that it will also be considered to negotiate bilaterally with the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e762	I believe that when we consider whether to include a directive in the EEA Agreement, we assess all possibilities in that way. One is to incorporate it, the other is to go against incorporating it. So the question is what is the effect of incorporating it into what is the reality of alcohol advertising in our society, where we can say no to the main tracks, i.e. what is produced from material in Norway, whether it's on paper or on screen, while what comes from outside is more difficult. What's on paper from the outside has alcohol advertising today. The question is whether it will also apply to screens. But we're evaluating all the options there. Should it be the case that we accept the inclusion of this directive because, for some reason, we think it is right to take it as a whole, I believe, without concluding that it would be natural to pursue the path to which the representative refers, namely the opportunity that the EU points out to negotiate between countries. Whether there is a simple strategy to implement remains to be seen. I'm not sure it's easy, but of course we have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e769	In my post I mentioned the inclusion of the Energy Services Directive and that, as far as I know, the matter is being dealt with by the Ministry of Oil and Energy – I hope I am right about that. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, how is progress, and when can we expect it to be incorporated into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e774	I can confirm that it is to be assessed, and we will keep the European Commission constantly informed about it. There have been other major issues in the energy field that have taken a lot of time in recent months, not least that we are now bringing the entire renewable directive safely into port and becoming part of it. But we also work on the other matter and will keep Stortinget informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e782	As I see it, the economic crisis in Europe has now become so serious that it is justified by the fear that it threatens stability throughout our part of the world. Persistently high unemployment and an entire generation of young people who are gradually deprived of the hope of a better future, with work, income, house and family, are already a source of significant social unrest. Popular governments and national assemblies that are unable to lead the way out of the crisis and therefore become part of it are further contributing to the weakening of the belief in democratic institutions. While we in Norway are concerned about increasing political disdain, our colleagues in Greece need police protection against the rage of the people. Winston Churchill once said that democracy is the worst social system humanity has created, except for everyone else. I'm afraid the people of several European countries only experience the first part of Churchill's post. In Greece and Italy, national parliaments, which themselves do not have the power to deal with the basic economic problems of the countries, have now left power to purely commercial ministries, as if it were reducing the debt burden or removing the obligations that these countries have assumed. Will it be easier to tolerate unemployment, reduce wages and pensions and increase taxes if the government moves out of policy? Last week, members of the EEA Committee of Storting attended an EFTA seminar on the economic crisis in Europe. It became an interesting yet remarkable experience – remarkable because leading EU bureaucrats clearly believe that increased harmonisation and stronger European institutions – in short, more EU and less national – are the solution to the crisis. It is possible that the performance is widely held in Brussels. I think that is perhaps one of the problems, for the EU and the introduction of the euro that has just made it possible for countries such as Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal to live with an ever-increasing debt burden in the shadow of flourishing economies in northern Europe. Although the EU is now setting up with debt cancellation, new loans and credits to needy Member States, it is not precisely the desire to increase economic integration that characterises the debate within the EU. I understand very well that Germans and French people refuse to pay the bill for other countries and people who have granted themselves welfare schemes they just have to look far behind. At the same time, Svein Harald Øygard, former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance and Governor of the National Bank of Iceland, was able to tell about Iceland, which, unlike several eurozone countries, is on the way out of the crisis. Iceland has had a government and politicians who have done what needs to be done. For a while, the unemployment rate in Iceland was well over 10 p.m. Young people fled abroad — many of them to Norway, and they are still here. Now unemployment is reduced to down to 6 pst. The Icelandic krona is now convertible to a level of 15-20 pst. lower than it was, as were the living conditions in Iceland. Now the arrows point up and forward to Iceland's economy. Although the Icelanders are still discussing their own vulnerable currency unit – and the Canadian dollar and the Norwegian krona are among the options actually being discussed – it is my claim that it would not have been possible within the euro zone. But the crisis in Iceland is not over. So Eyegard's recommendation to our Nordic brothers is that they focus on a strategy for new growth. Thus, Eyegard points to the main problem in EU countries today, namely little or no economic growth and the decline in the pair with a debt crisis that makes it necessary to cut public budgets because an ever-increasing share of government finances is agreeing to pay debt. Reduced public consumption is not compensated for by private consumption and therefore contributes to a downward spiral that throws even more into unemployment. It is this development that must now be broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e795	First, I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good presentation. He focuses on issues that concern the whole of Europe at the moment, so it can be said that the presentation is very topical. I will address three of the issues raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and share my thoughts and concerns with the Stortinget. Firstly, democratic development in Europe is under pressure. Norway is one of the countries to be watched when building new democracies around the world. We are one of the best in the class and have experts who have great experience in this field. That is why we must also be sceptical – I see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is – about forming governments of technocrats and bureaucrats. Both Greece and Italy have received governments that have very little policy thinking. One thing for an economist to look at numbers, currency, shares and bonds, is to expect that they will also have the political aspect by saying that voters will have stability, social security and the ability to choose. Greece and Italy both stand before me as the cradle of democracy and politics. Now these are the countries that first go to a professional government of their countries. I'm skeptical about the direction taken, but of course I understand why. I am not sure at all that people will gain more confidence in politicians when these give power to the technocrats. You ask people in Belgium and Bosnia – who have been without government for more than a year – I think they would rather have a real political government. Then they had at least someone to blame on. The second issue I want to address is something that the Foreign Minister also mentions in his presentation, namely youth. On Friday, the Council of Europe Standing Committee will hold an urgent debate, entitled «The young generation certified: political, social and other consequences of the financial crisis». The debate was initiated by the Chairman of the Conservative Group and the undersigned. The reason we want this debate is that there is an urgent need to take action to curb the growing upsurge that we see in some countries. But perhaps most importantly, giving young people across Europe a hope for the future. With a unemployment rate of 12-40 pst. This must be taken seriously by young people and by young people who are unemployed. Yes, I know this is a national problem, but I also know that many young people now want to leave their countries and look at new places to establish themselves. This means that the competence of refugees from countries that most need to take care of their skills in order to develop and create a future for the worst economically deprived countries of Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned the minorities. If you belong to a minority, there's no job and there's no way to get you a living, and no hope for the future, well then it's probably just a matter of time before the wolf fire takes real hold. We can't close our eyes to this. Rebellion, hatred and extremism in all directions come quickly in the wake of hopelessness. It's important that we don't sacrifice an entire generation on the way out of the financial crisis. Europe's youth, regardless of religion, race and political standing, must have the hope of a future back. Only a single Europe can contribute to – a single Europe, including Norway. It is beyond doubt that the financial crisis affects the population of a number of countries. Greece and Italy have recognised the problems, but at the same time Spain, Portugal, Ireland — and now Hungary too. If Spain gets as big a problem as Italy, it will joke about eurocooperation. That is why we have now had the debate on a European Federation. Over-management and control of EU countries is what some people think is needed to control the crisis in Europe. I'm not sure that's the way to go. I think that several of the Member States will then stand out, partly because it undermines the Constitution in individual countries, but also by having central governance. We must remember that some of these countries have been centrally overthrown before, and have no desire to do so. But for this reason – with this backstop – the EEA Agreement is more important than ever. It cannot be imagined that the EEA funds will disappear from Romania and Bulgaria. Then we would immediately and immediately have two new countries in deep crisis. I'm not saying that we should save everyone, but the importance of EEA funds in a Europe in crisis is huge. A dark harvest may well be called this harvest for Europe’s part. It doesn't seem that there will be any improvement with the first either. Turning back the crisis in Europe takes time, but this is the time Europe does not have, the youth does not have, our common future does not have. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e826	Europe's history is full of crises, wars and destructive nationalism, but also of cooperation to promote democracy and human rights, economic prosperity to create well-being for the population and cooperation to solve cross-border problems such as the environment and terrorism. I believe that it is important to remember this in a situation where Europe experiences economic storms, and how many European countries are in a deep economic crisis and have to cut heavily into both pensions and well-being, and experience high unemployment. Without the EU, I think we could fear that this crisis would have far greater consequences and that the danger of the economic crisis turning into a political and social crisis that would hit us all would be significantly greater. I believe that in the very situation we are currently in, we should be pleased that we have the EU, an EU that is a buffer against protectionism and nationalism, and that we have European leaders like Angela Merkel and Sarkozy, who stand up and take responsibility and now implement rescue packages that no one a few years ago would have thought were feasible. We should be pleased that European taxpayers are showing solidarity and are helping countries out of an economic crisis. There is no doubt that the crisis has also revealed weaknesses in EU cooperation, and not least weaknesses in euro cooperation. The main weakness is that there has been no actual agreement on the implementation of debt and deficit limits in the national budgets. I am delighted to be part of the EPP's economic and social council, where this is one of the major discussions, where some people are eager for more federalism and stronger political governance, but where others say that let us carry out what we actually agreed on, namely clear limits on the country's deficit and debt. It is also important to stress that the current crisis is not an EU-created crisis, but it is a nationally-created crisis. There are countries that have borrowed more than they can repay, there are countries that have used more than they create, countries that have broken the basics of all economics, that you cannot spend more than what you have over time. It's important to stick to it. It is Greece that has created a crisis in the European Union; it is not the European Union that has created a crisis in Greece. I think it is important that we also get the shades of what we now experience in Europe. If we make a thought experiment, namely that the euro zone had been one country – which is not and will not be – the deficits on the state budget would have been moderate, and there would have been a surplus in the foreign economy. The debt would not be greater than in the United Kingdom and the United States, and much lower than in Japan. What does this tell us? Well, it tells us that there are still economic muscles in Europe, and at the same time there are big differences. Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal are in a major economic crisis and need help. At the same time, the country that manages well is also in the economic rubble. The Netherlands and Austria are examples of countries with unemployment at Norwegian level. Germany, Sweden and Finland are countries that have also been able to work well out of the economic crisis. I do not believe that the economic challenges facing Europe should be underestimated. But in the current situation, we should be glad that European leaders are taking responsibility and that European taxpayers are showing solidarity. Then we shall also be open to a discussion of how the economic crisis will impact on the Norwegian economy. We're lucky again, not only because we have a strong state economy, but also because we have a petroleum sector that's growing, and a lot of our business is focusing primarily on the petroleum sector. At the same time, there are also parts of our export industries that depend on a market that is now falling, that experience a strong crown and also have a heavy backpack with strange costs. It suggests that there is a need for adjustments in economic policy, but we will come back to that on Thursday, in the important debate on our budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e845	In his first Fourside Chat on March 12, 1933, President Roosevelt spoke about the situation in American banks. There he said, among other things: the following: It's part of the adjustment of our financial system that's more important than money and more important than gold, and it's people's trust. Trust and courage is crucial for the success of our plan. People must have confidence. Don't panic about rumors and guesses. Let's jointly condemn fear. This was said in a different time and in other circumstances. But equally, there are many similarities between this and the crisis that many countries now face. We see that trust is replaced by fear and uncertainty. Fear and uncertainty are a dangerous mixture in the economy. Creating trust is one of our most important tasks. Trust is also one of the key prerequisites for creating security. The international situation is worrying, and a weaker trend outside will have consequences for Norway. Prices of metals and fish have fallen. Several industries report that conditions on export markets have become difficult lately. We must therefore expect that the development of the mainland economy will now be weaker than that underpinned by the 2012 national budget, where we saw a growth in line with the historical average next year. There is considerable unrest in financial markets. State pension funds abroad have a high capacity to withstand such fluctuations. We are not forced to sell today or tomorrow and can therefore live with short-term fluctuations. It is the Bank of Norway which has operational responsibility for the Fund. With regard to the long-term investment strategy, it is important to find good solutions over time. If the European share of the Fund is to fall, it is necessary to decide on the regions to be weighted. This applies, inter alia, to: the role to be played by emerging markets. We have also said that we will consider the principle of weighting each bond investment in the so-called reference index. An overall financial committee so late as in June of this year that changes that are significant to the risks and expected returns of the Fund shall be submitted to the Storting before they are implemented. In line with Stortinget’s treatment and the Norwegian Bank’s advice, the Ministry provides for a review of the geographical distribution and management of the bond portfolio in the communication to the Stortinget in spring 2012. We've also said that it might be time to start an adaptation before that time. I have recently had several meetings with my Nordic and European colleagues where the situation in Europe has, of course, been a central issue. In addition, unemployment, especially among young people, has been a topic. Long-term youth unemployment is increasing. As a result, access to the labour market becomes even more urgent. This leads to social exclusion, and to undermining knowledge and skills. But the worst thing is that self-esteem, self-esteem and motivation gradually disappear. The average unemployment rate among young people aged 15 to 24 is now around 21 years in Europe. Both in Spain and Greece, the unemployment rate is well above 40 pst. The longer this lasts, the harder it becomes to reverse development. Europe cannot afford to do this. It will be a misconception of historical dimensions, precisely because young people's opportunities, hope, dreams and future are crucial to our common future. Therefore, wide and targeted international cooperation is needed to address this issue. The OECD’s recently submitted Employment Outlook 2011 states that: Investing in youth in order to give them a better start in working life must be a key policy objective. Otherwise, there is a high risk of a sustained growth in a core group of young people being outsourced and with small prospects for work and income. In view of the ageing population, the OECD countries cannot afford the enormous and social costs that this will entail. Norway will be both an active participant and an active driver in such international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e880	It is nice that the Minister of Finance participates. The Progress Party invited the Minister of Finance to come to the Stortingen to report on the European debt crisis, but then got no, so we are happy to see him here today. The Foreign Minister spoke of SPU, i.e. the state pension fund abroad, relieving the debt crisis in Europe. They had invested 30 billion. euro in Europe. I actually didn't think it was the intention to invest, that the reference index should not help countries around, but get the best possible return from the money. I would like to be correct, that it is true that what the Progress Party thought was the intention, and that the Foreign Minister was not correct in helping Europe by investing in Europe, that it is not the intention. To sell further in Europe, we have been informed by the Financial Officer of the Progress Party in a meeting with the Bank of Norway. Is it then the right thing to sell down in Europe to avoid exposure to the debt crisis, or is it right, as the Foreign Minister says, to want large investments in Europe to remedy the debt crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e892	It is that SPU is a big investor in Europe. About half of the fund is now invested in European bonds and shares. It is a result of the historical investment distribution between Europe, the United States and Asia. In the message that was addressed here in the Stortinge in ours, we said that we will over time weigh down the share invested in Europe. That's what Stortinget has unanimously agreed to, and that's the long-term goal. The point of the Minister of Foreign Affairs is that, through investments that we make in Europe, in the long term, the Pension Fund is a patient and long-term investor, who does not go out and independ on fluctuations on the stock exchange. As such, investments from the SPU contribute to greater stability, inter alia. in the European share markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e901	The Financial Committee examined half a year ago – I believe it was in May 2010 – a matter of lending to Latvia. I have a two-part question: to what extent has Latvia used the loan that Stortinget gave at the time – and, if so, how much – and is it the other nations that have recently contacted Norway to provide similar loans?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e906	As the Foreign Minister was also involved in his speech and in the reply, Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, has set up bilateral loans to both Iceland and Latvia, as part of a coordinated IMF action to get the economy of the two countries on foot. Both of these countries have drawn on these loans, and there has been an important contribution to a shift in development. We have not been asked to contribute state-to-state loans from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e911	Let me first say that I am pleased with the signals given about the state pension fund abroad. In the current situation, it is important that we also take that discussion in terms of risk. The main concern of the right is that the Storting must have submitted changes which increase the risk. What you're now discussing is how to create more flexibility to reduce risk – just so it's given as a signal. Otherwise, there is a debate on different and new requirements for the financial sector, both through increased requirements for equity and through different forms of increased taxation. One is activity taxes, which the government has so far aired in the budget for next year. The second is the European discussion on tax on financial transactions. What is the government's timetable for an overall or individual assessment of the new requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e922	As far as the first part of the question is concerned, it is quite right, as the representative says, that when there are issues of major conversions of the Investment Facility for the Pension Fund, we have the practice – and we will continue to do so – that it should be presented to and discussed with the Stortinget. That is why, in the Communication that was discussed earlier this year, we had views on how we should focus on Europe and other parts of the world. So this is one example of that, and we'll keep doing that. With regard to the follow-up to the Financial Crisis Committee, we aim to bring this into the national budget presented for 2013. This is at least the provisional timetable for reviewing the various proposals on which the Committee on Financial Crisis was concerned. If there are proposals that are a little bit easier to deal with, it might come earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e929	When I deal with this, it is because I registered that several representatives from the government parties show a great deal of eagerness after Norway is going ahead of the EU in setting specific requirements for our financial sector. I would strongly warn against this in the interests of Norwegian companies and the competitive situation of the Norwegian financial industry. Like both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway, I would like to warn against this. For the consultation opinions of the Financial Supervisory Authority say: ‘In the opinion of the Financial Supervisory Authority, one should not proceed with the evaluation of the proposed tax proposals until one has seen the effect of those regulatory initiatives’ — what goes on, among other things. equity requirements. And Norway's Bank concludes with: ‘Norges Bank will therefore be advised to await the imposition of an activity tax in Norway until the European Commission submits a proposal for such a tax.’ Does the Minister of Finance agree with the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway in this, or does the Minister of Finance, like some red-green representatives, think that Norway should go ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e947	There are two issues that it is important to answer. Firstly, this is a debate taking place in the EU, and there has been a joint initiative in the EU to discuss, for example: an activity tax or financial levy, as one calls it. I have been very clear that we are seeing this work in connection with what we are going to do in Norway, precisely because of the consideration that the representative Sanner is also having, that this would work best if it were part of a common international cooperation. With regard to capital requirements, there is an important debate that is also taking place in Europe. In my view, the need to have sound financial institutions is quite crucial. From our point of view, we have looked at the possibility of a common Nordic initiative in relation to the Basel III rules, and if anything happens there, we will come back to the Storting with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e954	Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his statement on Thursday and the Minister of Finance today have spent a lot of time on the crisis in Europe and the challenges we face, and that is both natural and good. On Thursday, in two days, we're going to deal with the budget, and it's an open question whether this is a budget to meet the crisis with. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, What are his assessments of this, and how likely is it that we have to bring up a new crisis package a few months after that budget has been adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e961	The State budget was presented on 6 October, and we believe that it was then and still is a budget that is well adapted to the challenges we see not least in the European economy. But what has happened since the budget was presented is among other things. new estimates have been made for growth, both in Europe and in Norway’s trading partners. There is growth now downgraded, and there may have consequences for the growth of the Norwegian economy in 2012, which I was in the middle of my post. The other thing I want to say is that we have a high level of preparedness, we're following closely. If the situation goes from bad to worse in Europe, we are prepared to promote action, but the current situation will determine whether and when and what kind of action it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e968	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e971	Many countries in Europe have granted public benefits through loans that they no longer manage to serve. Public debt is written down and public welfare goods are cut. The countries have survived, and they have survived, by spiteing commitments made. And as the representative Høybräten said, they have survived the ability of Germany's creditworthiness. This is not the first time these countries survive, but it is the first time they do so with a single currency. Before the time of the euro, the national currency was devalued. The consequence for the population was that the imported goods became more expensive at the time, and that it became more expensive to move and trade in other countries. Purchasing power with regard to nationally produced goods was maintained and jobs became more competitive. With a single currency, that is no longer possible. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that Norway should be involved in taking its part in the responsibility for the security of the European economy. He then referred to our commitments through the EEA Agreement, and today also to the SPU, which the Minister of Finance countered instead. What Norway has to do in the first place is to realise that the country is part of a global economy, and that our huge profits and savings have consequences for other countries. The sum of all the state budgets of the world is zero. When Norway — and China — report high profits, other countries have to report a deficit by definition. And now these imbalances are very big. The Minister of Foreign Affairs quoted President of the Council of Rompuy, who claims that what Europe needs now is economic incentives, while what Europe gets is narrowing down. Then my invitation to both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance is: take the President-in-Office of the Council to the floor. Norway has the option of relieving Europe. The Minister for Foreign Affairs raised the question of whether we can experience a European generation of young people who do not get a job, completely independent of examination papers and a great deal of effort. The answer is, yes, we're at risk. I would like to add: Norway can contribute to this not happening, but then we have to be able to think and act differently – we have to think real economics. Let us consider the high unemployment rates in the EU as an opportunity. We have huge challenges and a backlog in construction and infrastructure in Norway, we have over 3,000 billion. kr on book – and how long do they exist, by the way, with the current crisis, we can only ask ourselves that – and we lack labour. The most relevant Norway can contribute is that of which large parts of Europe have the least jobs. Norway can allow some of those who have both exam papers and a great deal of effort to carry out well-paid project assignments in Norway, usually paid in euros. And let them go back and spend the money in their homeland. Norway may temporarily employ engineers, road workers and construction workers. Norway can contribute to the realisation of the wishes of the President-in-Office of the Council. They get a job and pay that can advance the national economy, we get infrastructure that makes everyday life easier, and that in the long run strengthens our competitiveness. We're reducing our profits a little, but without creating pressure in the Norwegian economy – it's a win-win-win situation. But it will unfortunately not the government, here it should not be thought of new, because it has never been thought before, and then at least it should not be done now. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that a worrying effect of the economic crisis was that what he called a populist right-wing fly has got wind in the sails. But then he added that it had not happened in the euro crisis countries – the so-called PIIGS countries. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this had apparently happened in other euro countries, without mentioning these countries. This is, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, forces we must dare to confront, and the Progress Party fully agrees – and I repeat: fully agree. The Foreign Minister chose to skip another yet more prominent challenge in Europe, namely the emergence of Islamism. More and more Europeans are experiencing religious and cultural intolerance, women are increasingly exposed to different forms of discrimination, and in some cities and cities, there is, in practice, a sharial overt. So it's at least as important that we also here dare to confront these cancers. Such confrontation must not be described or perceived as a group idea, stigmatisation or drawing of horror images, but must be confronted with what they are, namely a violation of individual freedom and a violation of human rights. But I note that these challenges and trends in Europe were not mentioned in a single word in the Foreign Minister's presentation. In the statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also makes a blow to the Nordic model, which, in the view of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is characterised by a large public sector, high taxes and strong trade unions. These characteristics I can join. Based on such criteria, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Nordic welfare state is given the ‘high level of well-being and equality, combined with strong competitiveness and not least the ability to convert’. It's an interesting analysis, but what makes it a little good reason is that several of the countries that are currently struggling the most are just characterised by large public sectors, high taxes and strong trade unions. And yes, they have been consistently run by social democracies with great faith in the public sector, high taxes and strong trade unions. Perhaps, then, the explanation model of why the Nordic countries have been relatively successful is somewhat sloppy. In such an enlarged image, culture, which has brought with it in different ways openness, absence of corruption, cohesion, sense of justice, working morality, accuracy and certainly many other qualities, also belongs to culture. However, what is the cause and what is the effect is a study of social anthropology.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e998	It must be really bad and painful to be Christian Tybring-Gedde, who meets a government and a political majority who have really done exactly what Tybring-Gedde says, namely to create jobs that are good for the whole development of Europe. But the way we did it wasn't generally to give a whole lot of tax relief to those who were the richest from before. It was the opposite of putting money into production by refurbishment of school buildings, missions to various new buildings, roads. So we've done exactly what Tybring-Gedde asks, and we've done it in a way that also contributes to the labour force coming to Norway. The Norwegian economy is solid. At the same time, we have some challenges, and many have faced them. 80 pst. our exports go to EU countries, and Norway is the fourth most integrated economy in Europe. In such a situation, it is completely irresponsible to jeopardize Norwegian jobs and our well-being by wanting to terminate the EEA Agreement. The main priorities of the working party are always to avoid unemployment. In the last few years, labour costs in Norwegian industry have increased significantly faster than in our trading partners, but companies have blackened through more efficient production and paid better for their goods. In fact, labour productivity is 50 pst. higher in Norway than it is in the EU average. Travel life has an expensive but very unique product to sell. At the same time, there are limits to what foreigners want to pay for an experience by coming to Norway. We are dangerously close to an excessive cost level in Norway, not least because of a strong krone. On Sunday we could see people thrown out of their houses in Spain. 300,000 kroner in debt was impossible to deal with, and the whole family, including two kids and grandmother, was thrown out. The safety net is missing, and the entry on the Dagsrevyen illustrates very well that there are common people who are most affected. If you lose your job, you lose a lot, maybe everything. The availability of services in Europe varies in the same way as the economic problems vary. I want to bring in a significant point, namely the mobility of labour as a win-win strategy. The use of EU labour force in Norwegian enterprises is at its maximum of three years. Three out of ten private sector enterprises have used EU labour force in the last year. In a new study for NAV EURES, 31 pp. by private sector enterprises that they have used EU labour in the last year. In fact, private sector figures have not been higher since 2008. Never before has the hotel and restaurant industry, for example, used as much labour from Europe as it is now. 67 pst. use European labour force. Other typical EU industries, such as construction and construction and industry, also have a record of almost 50 pst. by all enterprises using labour force from Europe. German nurses, Portuguese and Spanish engineers, Swedish cooks and waiters, dentists from Bulgaria, East European construction workers – and Icelandic bus drivers, for that matter – are all very good examples of work mobility solving common challenges. They have solved both our need for skilled labour and people's need for work, i.e. a win-win situation. Norway is not alone in Europe to have a lower unemployment rate, and labour mobility is definitely not the answer to all the questions, but I believe that we should address this as a theme of European policy, with a very different approach than the Progress Party, which is to liberalise the labour market, remove the security of employment and not actively work against social dumping. We have to address it and clean it up in poor working conditions, both because we benefit from it, and because Norwegian businesses and businesses need European labour force, and out of solidarity with all the 40 pst. by the youth and all those who are now walking around with dreams, but perhaps not so much hope. A job in Norway could contribute. In the same way, I just want to take up a little theme on the tap. The Romanian and Bulgarian beggars who now walk on the street right out here begging for money in their cups are not primarily a problem of order, they are primarily a social problem. There we have projects through the EEA financial instruments. It is a good example of how we can set up our arrangements to help Romanian beggars where they live, and it also shows how integrated we are in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1019	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation that was made. I'll probably have a slightly different input portal for this problem than some people have had here. I'm going to deal a lot with the business perspective, and I'm going to start in the following way: One of the things that concerns me in the light of the euro crisis we have, in view of the problem faced by some of the European countries, is that there is every reason to fear, if you are not very careful and vigilant, that there may be national systems that have protectionism in them. I think there's too little focus on these things. If we look at the shipbuilding industry, for example, we have had an ongoing dialogue with some of the countries with which we compete in Europe on whether to use support schemes or financial instruments to safeguard the interests of our own countries in a number of sectors. It brings me to the Norwegian case and what has been referred to as the future of export finance or lack thereof, and the debate that has been linked to whether the government had the opportunity or wish to ensure that we got a more lasting exemption from the Capital Requirements Directive. That's why the learned are fighting. We have brought with us the government's, not least the finance minister's instigation portal, but when we look at the points made by the Shipowners' Association in the matter, and at what Norsk Industry has come up with, it is quite clear that the reality is different. I ask that the government be very careful about the use of the new scheme, so that this does not become a political system, but that one continues in the same track as Export Finance. Another area, which is not mentioned, but the more important from the Norwegian side, is linked to the fisheries policy. Clearly, there is a conflict between Norway and the EU — not necessarily between Norway and the EU, but with other countries. So the question is, how can we be able to get a common front on these questions to a greater extent than today? The EU is moving in a positive direction with regard to fisheries policy, we must take that on board, and that is very good. If what the Committee on Fisheries proposes is adopted, it is important that we find arenas where we can cooperate with the European Union in order to ensure the management, especially in the Norwegian Sea, of both herring and mackerel, because there we have a common challenge. The EU is our second most important market. It's a very important market within what's involved in fishing, and I hope you have a lot of attention on this. With regard to the previous case, which I have already discussed, relating to the Capital Requirements Directive, I think it is also time for us to stop a little and think about all the directives we have actually implemented in Norwegian law. Then my question is, are we so concerned that these directives are going to go through this room so fast that we might not always do the basic work just as well in all fields? I think we need to pay attention to this, particularly in the context of the Treaty of Lisbon and the way in which we can work in Parliament. We must be much more predictable and have much wider contact into an early phase. Fortunately, at the same time as the EU Member States, we will see what directives are going on, but we have a long way to go when it comes to dealing with them properly in the Grand Duchy. I also hope that the Storting is aware of this and is doing its basic work when the directives are being discussed here in the Chamber. I think that's been reasonably deficient in a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1036	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1039	Like many others, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his presentation. Many are and will be affected by what is happening in Europe. We can meet tough times – and included in the vi – we are also the Nordics, many of whom have been involved in their contributions. It is bad to record that youth unemployment has passed 40 pst. in Spain and around 20 pst. ashore closer to us. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked the following questions: ‘But what happens to trust, adaptability and the future of young people?’ And on the other hand, ‘How will this affect the confidence of political institutions?’ Perhaps the article in Today’s Business yesterday, entitled ‘Jesus Fears the Future’, can give some answers. The Jesus we're talking about here is 95 years. When a 95-year-old expresses concern for the future, there is reason to stop. What about those who are at the beginning of their adult life, who don't have a job to wake up to? How are they supposed to meet day and tomorrow? I'm worried because history always shows that there will be forces that exploit such concerns for their benefit. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also said something about it in his statement that forces on the populist outer right wing have gained more wind in Europe's sails. They have become more visible on the political agenda. We don't have to travel further than to Hungary until we find parties that have gained more than wind in the sails. They're about to bring the people along, and that development is why I took the floor here today. On Saturday 12 November, today’s business had an article with the introductory phrase ‘Der H hates grow’ – with the subtitle ‘A new, nationalistic wave of hatred is raging over Hungary’s young democracy. To this end, the gypsies in particular have developed dizziness’. It does something to us when we read about the hatred that is about to be found in Hungary – that people are subjected to violence in their everyday lives because they are just what they are. It creates fear – a fear that unfortunately has also become a political instrument. The hate language has been so accepted in Hungary that it has created a culture of hate, which in turn gives ground to violent extremism. All of this is well anchored in the political party Jobbik, a party that probably has 20 pst. by the voters, a party having its own Hungarian guard, marching in the streets with what many refer to as ‘black fascist inspired uniforms’. That such a conduct has the support of the people is frightening. At the same time, wanting to return land areas to Hungary lost after World War I will make the challenges bigger and the fear all the worse. I am concerned that what is happening in Hungary can also happen in other countries. A generation of young people without a job to go to can be a good recruiter. The former politician and Rafto winner Peter Molnar sums up what has happened in Hungary: I thought democracy and freedom of expression would lead to a healthy and new Hungary, but unfortunately we see that hatred and brutality are growing at the expense of democracy and freedom of expression. It's worth noting these words when we're going to meet tomorrow's Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1071	The Schengen area will soon be extended to include Bulgaria and Romania. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has supported the Polish Presidency's compromise proposal to abolish internal border controls for these countries and states that this is 'a solution that balances differences of interests, and it is a proposal that we can live with'. At the same time, the Commission proposes that Member States should give decision-making powers over border controls. There is still still serious doubt right now about the ability of Romania and Bulgaria to enforce a Schengen external border against the influx of third-country nationals. We talk, for example: on the Caucasus region, which is once again a transit area for both drug traffic and businessmen of a black we do not really want in Europe. The efforts of the two new Schengen countries to combat domestic trafficking and organised crime also have a way to go. I have been pleased to see that the Minister of Foreign Affairs supported the position of the former Minister of Justice in Brussels in September, as it was stressed that Norway's position is that border control should be a national matter when regulated for security reasons. But then the question is, what happens if we don't get listened to? It is then very important to follow developments closely and to be prepared to take the necessary steps to control inflows through an active control of their own borders, of course within the framework of the Schengen Agreement. We also need to remember that there are great savings and benefits in being able to reject people at the border and not have to track them after they have traveled to Oslo and other cities, in order to run crime there, for example. the placing on the market of narcotic drugs. I welcome the fact that the government is making proposals that enable our immigration and border authorities to deal with any increased pressure. The EU crisis has arisen in individual countries. The transition to the single currency gave historically low interest rates, and some countries with predominantly socialist or social democratic governments used this breathing space the low interest rates gave, to expand their own countries on credit from others. In other countries, breathing room was used to make structural changes. Portugal, Spain until yesterday, Germany until 2005 and Greece before 2003 and after 2009 were socialist or social democratically governed countries — and also Ireland — to mention countries within the euro zone. It is worth noting that it was a social-democratic Germany that was the first, along with France, to break the criteria of the Stability Pact. It was also Schröder who actively opposed the fact that it would be possible by means of the legal instrument to strike against countries which breached the Treaty's conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1082	First of all, I would like to strongly warn against politicizing, party politics, how the situation in individual countries has arisen, and what is the reason for the situation in individual countries, based on examples from countries that coincide with the party vision you also have here at home. There are a number of relationships, a number of individual indicators, which are why you are there. I don't have time to go into a thorough analysis of it now, until it's not long enough. I would like to add that when individual representatives here in this Chamber point out that there has been too much public sector construction in some countries, there is at least as good a reason to claim that some of the reasons why you are there today are are, is that some countries also used the good times before the financial crisis to reduce the state's income, grant themselves huge tax cuts, which meant that they were unable to raise profits. When the crisis came, a little overcapacity was already living on credit. Then things just got even worse, and then you're there today. So I would have walked a little carefully in the doors I would have been in the bourgeois parties, which here today believe that there are socialist governments that have lived above their ability. Well – I'd like to discuss it more at another time. What I want to say, on the other hand, is what a huge impression it makes on me when, on our own continent, in our own continent, in modern Western democracies, we experience mass unemployment among young people, we feel that we can have a real discussion that states in our own backyard, in our neighbourhood, can go bankrupt. That's how you read about from countries we usually don't like to compare with. Not least, as I said, it's very demanding to meet some of the young people who have a completely lost future based on what's happening now. What should the answer be, and what should the significance for Norway be in this? What we're not supposed to do is follow the advice of the representatives here and elsewhere that says now it's time to think new, go for the slightly more extreme solutions. No, what we should do now is hold on to all the levers, all the levers we have in the Norwegian framework and policies that contribute to predictability, security and tried and tested instruments. We have also shown in the near past that it is possible to control the economy here in Norway through some of the tried and tested instruments. We are just going to stick to what has been successful in the Norwegian welfare model, which both creates and divides values in a completely different way from other countries. So I want to strongly warn you that we are now going to try something new and exciting at a time when in the world around us there is a great economic storm, even in our own neighbourhood. Finally, I would just like to say that I very much support the work of the government on the Deposit Guarantee Directive, which has cross-political involvement in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1095	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation on important EU and EEA issues. In the Foreign Minister’s presentation a year ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it is starting to go a little better in the EU. At that time there was reason for optimism. Now the message is another: unemployment is alarmingly high and rising, as are deficits in the state economy in many EU countries. The main reason is years of public over-consumption and government borrowing to finance welfare goods. We all know from our own private economy that when expenditure is higher than income, it goes wrong sooner or later. The two largest economies in the EU, Germany and France, have produced aid packages over a period of time, but the two themselves have huge deficits. According to the Evening Item today, France could risk having its creditworthiness downgraded, meaning higher interest rates on government loans. The unemployment rate is almost 10 p.p., and the debt ratio is at a staggering 82 p.p. of gross domestic product. France’s role as a nice uncle to hard hit EU colleagues can quickly turn to France’s economy being in crisis. There is also danger in Germany. Germany had a joyful growth in GDP of 3.6pst in 2010, but debt increased sharply. Germany now has a total debt of over $1,800 billion. EUR 78 pst. of gross domestic product in Germany. That's an increase of 300 billion. euro in one year — almost a Norwegian oil fund. Debt ratio has increased from 2009 to 2010, from 64 pst. up to 78 pst, which is significantly higher than the 60 pst. of GDP permitted by the legislation. The money Germany is now contributing is financed by Germany itself taking on large loans, which are in addition to the old ones. On Thursday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs claimed that Norway is the European contrast and showed that Norway has profits, high employment and no debt. That is true in itself, but not so much of the Norwegian experience that can be exported to other countries to solve their problems. What separates Norway the most from our neighbours are the huge oil and gas revenues – hundreds of billions of dollars each year making it comfortable to be a Norwegian government. The fact that Norway is a vulnerable country if the demand for Norwegian products from the EU countries decreases is something we should take seriously. Therefore, a sober economic policy here in Norway is important, so that the consumption of the country does not become too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1110	Norway has good traditions for restrictive alcohol policies. Advertising bans, charging policies and regulation of availability are important measures, because although alcohol is a legal product, it is not a regular product. Alcohol is the drug that causes most health damage and the biggest social problems. The World Health Organisation defines alcohol as the third most important cause of early death and disability on a world-wide basis. Also economically, alcohol costs society dearly. More countries than Norway realise that restrictive alcohol policies, including advertising bans, are effective drug supply and good health policies. The EU is now trying to push Norway to give up the ban on alcohol advertising almost 36 years old through the new Audiovisual Media Directive. The EU requires Norway no longer to maintain the exemption that gives us the right to stop alcohol advertising in television broadcasts from abroad. Alcohol advertising into Norwegian homes will be a major step backwards for the public health campaign in Norway. Such a situation will be in stark contrast to the objective of the Cooperation Reform and of the new People's Healingova, simply to prevent more from repairing less. The EU's alcohol policy is frightening. Although alcohol-related deaths in the EU are extensive, the TV Directive does not take into account market liberalism. We must record without any mercy that the concerns of free competition and the internal market weigh more heavily and completely overshadow the public health argument. That alcohol advertising on TV will contribute to changing alcohol habits and increasing alcohol consumption in the population, and especially in young people, is documented but is not taken into account. This shows the dark back of the EEA Agreement, which has market liberalism as a rental star. When the market is to rule alone, people are losing their minds. Then, too, society will lose. The only ones that are interested in this are the alcohol industry and the advertising industry. The EU refers to the possibility of negotiating agreements with the host countries for channels broadcasting to Norway. This is a highly uncertain measure. It is also a paradox that other drugs, such as alcohol, are involved. tobacco, is not treated as a commodity in the same way as alcohol. Alcohol appears to be a wanted and important commodity in the EU. The centre party believes that the exception that was negotiated early in the 1990s was an important premise for the EEA agreement to have a majority in the Stortinget, and must proceed further. We believe that today's legislation on alcohol policy should be strict and therefore do not support the introduction of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1123	There is a serious situation in Europe. A high level of insecurity is linked to the development of the European economy. There are high debts, large deficits and high unemployment rates. 66 pst. of our exports go to Europe. Europe is our second most important trading partner. That's why we're unlikely to be vulnerable to what's happening out there. Then we need a budgetary and financial policy here to secure our jobs, which ensures that we still have a low interest rate, and that the value of the crowns does not rise. So it's important that we use less than 4 pst. the return of the oil fund on the budget. Many countries should have spent more money, but they can't because of high debt. Keynes's theories only work when you save in good time, so you can use more in bad times. In 2008, this was exactly what we did here at home, when the Storting adopted a work package. It made for activity in a difficult time. As of 2010, the growth here at home has grown both in industry and in construction. It also appears in the third quarter of 2011. This is good, and we're in a very lucky position relative to the countries around us. It also appears that order in our own economy is the best defense against crises that come from outside, and that in tough times we need safe economic governance, not creative solutions that put Norwegian competitiveness at risk. Youth unemployment is a major problem in Europe. She's over 20 pst. in Sweden and at almost 50 pst. in Spain. That almost 50 pst. Of young people in Spain, there is no job, not only is there a problem for the individual; it is a problem for society, for Europe – yes for all of us. That large parts of the generation that will take over the future do not come into the labour market is a major challenge. Behind these numbers are actually young people who don't have a job to go to, who have suffered or no income. Of course, it creates frustrations – and, not least, a waste of youth’s strength! And think of the loss that society gets, by not using this workforce! Frustration can also turn into social unrest. In many European countries, however, they are doing a great deal of work to get the economy back on track. A few weeks ago, Dagsrevyen could see an interview with a lawyer in Ireland. He had got half the pay say. Nevertheless, he was pleased that he had actually worked. A few weeks ago, in the European Parliament, I was listening to the Single Market Act — a 12-point plan to secure growth and jobs and focus on business, among others. access to finance and risk capital, business simplification and, in particular, the use of public procurement to stimulate innovation and climate solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1138	Norway cannot, of course, be indifferent to what is happening in Europe, as someone is calling for. Instead of building high fences around our country, we must contribute to solving the crisis, both for our own sake and in solidarity with our neighbours. It will benefit us all. The situation in Europe is very serious. This is all cause for concern, including for Norway. Because although most of us today do not notice so much about the crisis we see in some of the European countries, we will – if the crisis persists. After the financial crisis, many countries raised high loans to help save the banking sector and get out of the crisis. Now they can't handle their debt. Only the debt of Italy is more than 15 000 billion. kr. It is now speculated whether the rising interest rate on Italian sovereign debt can lead the EU and the euro into a new crisis and whether euro cooperation can collapse or lead to a ‘multi-speed Europe’. Norway has managed well through the financial crisis, and we are doing well now, despite the debt and unemployment crisis in the world. Many point to our large revenues from oil and gas and the Pension Fund as the reason. Let there be no doubt that the Pension Fund is important and gives us a room for action that there is reason to envy us. It enabled us to launch offensive countermeasures during the financial crisis. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is no revenue from oil and gas alone that we live on. Had we all stopped working and lived on these revenues, we would have made it a little over a year before the fund was empty. That's each other's work we live by. Norway’s economic growth and welfare communities are a source of high levels of labour participation. We have built up kindergartens and parental leave, so that both women and men participate in the work. Over 250,000 new jobs have been created in recent years. We have implemented a pension reform that facilitates more jobs. And most importantly, we've kept order in our own economy and not used over ability in good times. However, if markets in Europe collapse and the growth of the economy stops, Norwegian jobs, especially in competitive industries and industry, will be at risk, and we will be able to increase unemployment here as well. Norway exports 40 pst. of the country producing, to the rest of the world, approx. 70 pst. go to the EU countries. We rely on access to the EU market to sell our goods. There was also one of the reasons for the EEA Agreement in its time. The fact that some now want to put the EEA Agreement into play and also refuse to help EU countries is evidence of a navel view that is just sad. Just in such a situation, it is important that Norway participates and contributes to the resolution of the crisis. The Norwegian government has said that Norway can be positive about providing loans, as we did with the other Nordic countries in relation to Iceland during the financial crisis, and that we will also be able to contribute more to the IMF. We will contribute both because we have the economy for it, to show solidarity with the countries concerned and because it benefits Norway and the European Community we are part of. There will be no peace and prosperity in northern or western Europe without peace and prosperity in the south and east, said Barroso in a speech. We should all contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1155	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, and as many have followed up in today's debate, Europe is now in the midst of a very difficult economic and political situation. There's no reason to rejoice. However, there should be some reflections, such as: over the choice we made when we chose to stand outside the Union in 1994. It is my clear belief that it was objectively a right decision to say no to the EU in 1994. The crisis in Europe would not have been any less if Norway had been a member of the EU, and the situation in Norway would not have been better if we had said yes. Measurements of opinion show that people in Norway have understood this to a greater extent than the people's representatives. I joined the Central Party in 1994 precisely because of the EU case. In the Middle Ages, we compared the EU to cycling. As long as you're moving, you're doing fine. Lose speed, you roll. That's what's happening in the EU now. There's no reason to rejoice. There is every reason to feel sympathy for people in Europe who now feel the consequences of an EU political elite experiment combined with a national lack of precision in several countries. The Centre Youth also described the EU project with the word ‘one size fits all’. It doesn't work when a buyer buys clothes, or when he has to rule Europe's country. Common currency and monetary policy only work if the industrial structure of the currency area is the same. If the industrial structure is different, there is a need for either a common fiscal policy or a significantly greater mobility in the labour market than what we see in the EU today. We see signs of a common fiscal policy by consulting closely with the Commission and the Council of the Member States' budgets before the national parliaments adopt their budgetary decisions. I find reason to ask questions about what this is doing with the democratic aspect of national budgetary work. The crisis contributes to more centralisation and less democracy. It may be a dangerous development in the long term. The solution of increased mobility may sound provocative, but has a backside in terms of pressure on welfare schemes, pressure on wages and pressure on other social benefits that we are engaged in. The Swedish sister party of the Centre Party says the following about the EU: "The Centre Party considers that a narrower but sharper EU is needed." I believe that someone from Norway should be working for such a development in Europe. Lack of success in key issues cannot be compensated by more detailed management, more bureaucracy and more control. Bureaucracy is also a dangerous ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1178	I was sitting on the Fly train on the way from Gardermoen and entering Oslo last night and watching the news that flashed over the screen. There were few points of light. Many of the representatives who have spoken in this debate have deepened and eroded this, so I shall not repeat it, but there is good reason for me to say that there are dark clouds over Europe, and we do not yet know what the end of this will be. For the Norwegian government, it's very central that work for everyone should be a core point, and that's one of the most important things we're doing. We've also said that the activity and the fact that you have a real opportunity to live all over the country is central here, just to be able to use the rich resources that exist all over the country. The most important tool we have to contribute to this, and to compensate for, among other things. distance disadvantages and other disadvantages have been the differentiated employer’s fee. It is a rigorous and unbureaucratic instrument, and it has been targeted and effective to stimulate employment and housing in those areas of Norway with low population density and struggling with depopulation. Norway was forced to terminate this scheme from 1 January 2004 because it was found that the instrument was in breach of the EEA Agreement. This government worked hard to come to an understanding with ESA, which ensured a system that was similar to the one that was before. It was therefore a major victory for Norwegian districts and for an active district policy that differentiated employer fees could be reintroduced from 1 January 2007. The differentiated employer fee is our superior key instrument to ensure the ability to operate throughout the country, and perhaps it is one of the important contributions to our having a lower centralisation trend in Norway than the rest of Europe has. The framework for this instrument is the EU Commission’s guidelines on regional aid, which apply from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. These guidelines provide an external framework for what the EEA countries can provide of regional government support to business, and regulate inter alia. schemes such as differentiated employer charges and regional investment aid. Within these frameworks, ESA interprets and enforces the legislation and shall approve the Norwegian arrangements and scope of the regional policy instruments. The European Commission presented its work programme for 2012 on 16 November this year. As expected, it is clear that the guidelines on regional aid are to be revised. It also means that Norwegian practices and Norwegian schemes could be at risk of disappearing. I am sure, and use the opportunity to remind the government that we are going to follow up the government statement on which it is based, and ensure that this important tool continues, even after 2013. It must be done through systematic work with the European Commission in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1191	Some comments on things that have been said in the debate. The dependence that we all agree on – the domino effect that we can experience from the problems in many of the countries outside Europe – is not primarily due to the EEA Agreement, or to EU cooperation as such, but to what is under and behind it, namely the economic integration and economic dependence that is thus experienced. Small countries are more vulnerable than larger countries, because larger countries deal more with themselves than small countries do. It is enough to point out the situation in Finland when the Soviet Union went into disintegration, and Finland's main export market collapsed. Then to the euro. Greece would have been better off with dragons than with the euro, it has been said. Yeah, I don't think they'd get borrowed as much if they had their own currency, like what they got. The bond would have been stopped a little before, so the debt burden would have been easier. First of all, the means of action with its own currency would have been the possibility to devalue, which also Dagfinn pointed out was something that happened with the Icelandic kroner. That value almost completely disappeared. But that means throwing the burden on the neighbors. Fortunately, this is an instrument that has been out of use for quite a long time. If we had now had the situation in Europe that the countries had had their own currencies, we would be at risk of a round of devaluations and, I believe, more protectionism than we have fortunately experienced today. I don't think that would make the way out of the crisis easier than the way you now have to go. So to Schlagsvold Vedum, who allows me a view of the EEA agreement that I actually don't have. I insist that there is only one alternative to the EEA Agreement, and that is membership – if we are to have an agreement that takes care of Norwegian business interests in the same way. But that doesn't mean we don't think there can be room for improvement. I have mentioned this earlier in this Chamber, and in the Joint Parliamentary Committee in the European Parliament, we have been working for several years to analyse and look at the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon on the EEA Agreement. We have raised questions as to whether we should try to bring about institutional changes, so that we could also get an admission to the European Parliament. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has promised us a free-thinking debate on the EEA Agreement when the investigation is available, so I look forward to participating in it. I absolutely believe that we should be open to improving the agreement, but I do not believe that the option that I feel many would like to be available, namely that we can choose which legislation to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1204	There have been quite a number of common features in this debate, which has been going on throughout the morning, in the light of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation. We all agree that all improvement in Europe is good for Norway. Some people believe that the word ‘injury’ has been used a little too much in this debate. Possibly body language experts would have been able to read who thrives best in debates like this. Nevertheless, we have a fairly similar understanding that we are very concerned about the political and economic situation in Europe. Let me also say that it has strengthened the debate that the Minister of Finance and parts of the Financial Committee have participated in it. I am not saying this with any indirect indexing finger to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – rather on the contrary. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and others has wondered a little about the changes in the profile of the Right. No, we haven't done that in any way. We have been accused in the past of having participated in some kind of harelas in the EEA Agreement, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that it is very bad use of time to talk about the termination of the EEA Agreement. It might well be perceived as criticism by a few more than the representatives of the Right in this room. I registered that the Workers' Party's foreign and defence policy spokesperson used his entire main post to warn against compromising with the EEA Agreement in times like this. It is clear to the Right that in a situation where one is not close to achieving the ideal solution, some have to call about today's EEA Agreement. Some people spend all their time, all their forces, telling the Norwegian people that a WTO regulation would be better for Norway than today's agreement. They must have full opportunity to fight for that, even in a day like this. There is no doubt that in Norway too there is ground to look for quick fix solutions. We have an organization like two of the government's three parties, mostly, is the flock around membership in, who likes to talk about how much better the world would be with a bilateral agreement with the Commission and 27 countries. That is why it is important for the Right to contribute to this debate by stating that the agreement we have today, which is a guarantee of Norwegian working life, is all the reason for making a strong ring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1215	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that there was no simple solution out of the cross-press that many euro area countries are currently in. When it is claimed that there are no alternatives to severe economic cuts and loss of welfare for Europe’s people, it is due to earlier political choices, and it is due to a lack of political response to maritime criticism and rethinking, i.e. changing power conditions. Some key words could be: the reintroduction of national currencies, more power back to elected bodies in the national states and smaller subsidies and rescue packages to a greedy financial industry. The EU chose to introduce the euro in spite of heavy professional warnings. The EU chose a monetary union without a political union at the same time. Managing monetary policy for all euro area countries is impossible without the necessary political tools. It has to be difficult for someone, because the economies are so different. The Norwegian European Movement agrees. Before the crisis occurred, the euro has turned the economy into a favour of the wholesaler Germany at the expense of the less productive countries in the south. All countries are responsible for their own development, but there is no doubt that EU countries, and in particular euro area countries, have given up significant instruments to maximise this responsibility. There has been a huge investment in financial speculation, property and services in the West and a massive deterioration in the goods-producing industries. Many Western countries have demolished, while China has built up. China has large foreign exchange reserves, while the United States and European countries are dwindled in debt. For a number of years, EU Member States have tried to follow up requests from Brussels for a budgetary policy that leads to greater competitiveness. The goal was less popular governance and the associated weaker correction of market forces, for example. in the financial sector. This has been said to have given more speculation and unfair competition over, among other things. proper conditions in the labour market. Unfortunately, part of this development also applies in Norway through the EEA Agreement. One of the news yesterday was that Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm is now asking Nordic colleagues for assistance against the ESA, who believe Norway cannot comply with the ILO Convention on the Rights of Workers when public procurement is to be made. It's almost not to believe what you're experiencing, but it's true. This is clear evidence that in the Central Party we were right because in the service directive dispute we did not pride ourselves on assurances that Norwegian law would not be subordinated to EU labour law. It is a great paradox in itself that the Council of States must push the UN and the ILO Convention ahead of itself in the conflict with Brussels. It shows to everyone that Norwegian law is little to set up with in Brussels. It is secondary to EU law and no broadcasting directive modifies the logic of this EU system. Soon, the EEAG will present its report to the EEAG. At the same time, No to EU project leader Sigbjørn Gülsvik has led work on alternatives to today’s EEA agreement. That must be vital to the Norwegian debate. 52 pst. the public now responds that they agree with the Central Party that a mutually beneficial trade agreement with the EU would serve Norwegian interests better than the EEA Agreement. Keeping the great EEA resistance outside of Norwegian debate becomes a Norwegian variant of the European leaders now doing too often, namely driving the political change of words without involving the population. The Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed concerns that technocratic governments take over in Italy and Greece. We fully agree with that. The dawning social turmoil that is now coming is one of many signals the imperialists should be taking over. The European Union is simply over-ripe for change. More union, which is the mantra in Brussels, is not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1232	In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the Laval, Viking and Rüffert judgments of the European Court of Justice and states that this has created confusion as to the Member States’ access to the conditions of pay and employment of workers sent on behalf of one EEA country to another. This is regulated by what we used to call the Posting of Workers Directive, but which has now been called the Posting of Workers Directive. The Joint Parliamentary Committee of the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU countries has for the time being dealt with this issue on the basis of a comprehensive report. We have asked for amendments to the Directive and the legal status created on the basis of the Directive, so that fundamental rights of workers can be respected. I am very pleased that there are now developments in this area in the EU. Unfortunately, therefore, ESA – and I am asking Lundtigen to take note of it – now believes that we cannot impose conditions on Norwegian pay and working conditions in public acquisitions, on the grounds that there are no similar requirements in the private sector. Now, the case is that we have no Community legislation on acquisitions in the private sector. However, the point is that the ESA is challenging the ILO 94, to which Norway has also joined, and which is just opening up access and recommending that pay and working conditions are required in public contracts. I understand that the Minister of Labour has proposed a few minor changes to today's legislation, which should lead to ESA dropping the case. Otherwise, this case is likely to end in the EFTA Court. However, ESA’s intervention in this matter is more serious than that, because it helps to raise doubts about Norwegian authorities’ access to the labour market and the validity of Norwegian collective agreements, which has an estimate of another directive, namely the Temporary Agency Directive. The purpose of the temporary agency directive is, as you know, to guarantee the rights of employees in temporary employment agencies, while recognising these agencies as employers. The Temporary Agency Directive raises several issues of a principle nature. Therefore, the Government has not addressed the Directive yet. But let me add: I think it will be absolutely crucial for the discussion of the directive in this Chamber, namely that it is very clear that there are Norwegian employment, our protection against dismissal and our collective agreements in force in Norway, no matter where the employees work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1245	There is unrest in Europe, and there have been many of them. I think the debate in Norway is a little bit like that with distant amazement, and maybe we haven't taken the seriousness of the situation either. This is going to affect us pretty much. A government that provides a government budget where competitiveness continues to deteriorate and where the Norwegian level of costs increases far beyond the European level will face entirely new challenges. That is why, in line with Mr Hansen's representative, I was very surprised to hear that devaluations are the solution for some countries out in Europe. I think a Europe that goes back to the old regimes with its own currencies is going to have less attractiveness, will be less attractive to investment and will be more protective than what you really have as a goal of EU cooperation – and that would be sad. At least there is no solution for Europe in today's situation. So I think we're going to cross our fingers and hope you succeed in solving the tough challenges you're facing in Europe. I believe in many ways that the crisis you see in Europe is also going to change the economy a little, because it has been a theory in the economy that countries cannot go bankrupt. Therefore, government bonds and such things have been safe locations. This is probably going to be discussed a lot. I don't think it's so surprising that stimulation packages don't work like they did before, because now people start to expect that there will be stimulation packages, and only increase the debt, and it's going to increase both tax pressure and repayment requirements in the future. So here's a lot to learn. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in previous debates that we cannot blame the EU and the EEA for everything that is wrong all week, and so expect to vote for the EU and the EEA when the weekend comes. I think that's a very good observation. So a little back to what has happened with Export finance and guarantees of export. I think you should admit that it's almost been a strategy that you had to state it – and that's all right. There we may have a political agreement or disagreement as to whether it makes sense, but there were reports that this was a demand from Europe, and the EEA almost blamed it. What's behind this is that you've been dealing with opt-outs, you've been involved in finding solutions, and you've ended up with a federalization. Now I see on the E24 that export finance is downgraded to "spare" in the credit market, so there may also be other reasons why the government did not go in there. But I think we should be careful to blame the EU and the EEA for everything that is wrong in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1260	In the situation of many countries in Europe, it is very easy to sit on the sidelines and observe and also assess this situation. Not only is it easy to characterize what's happening, but it's also easy to say afterwards what should have been done differently to avoid getting into a similar crisis. Sometimes we can ask ourselves if it is really possible to put their country's economy so to the degrees above hand by making it into those degrees of unsustainable political decisions. The examples are many, but what is perhaps most striking is the weakest methods of tax collection in some countries. Equally striking is the attitude of the population towards paying taxes. In many cases it is completely absent. It shows how important it is to build trust in such systems. It is equally strange that the elected representatives give themselves arrangements that are so far from the arrangements that the population otherwise has. When the distance becomes so great, it is natural that the resistance becomes great to these politicians when a crisis arises and the population has to take the greatest burden to correct the situation that has arisen, because the elected people have not prepared the ground well enough to make the country's economy sustainable. When the political systems over time – and quite for a long time – do not have the necessary confidence in the population, the indifference spreads, and one is expressed over the distance that is, and not least to the world in which politicians live. I seem to see this statement in several southern European countries, such as the United Kingdom. Greece and Italy. But it's also very exciting to see what kind of consequences it has when there are professional experts instead of directly politically elected people who are now being put into governing bodies, among other things. in Italy. Is this some kind of political abdication? In many places it is worrying to see what forces are released when the crisis becomes big enough. We clearly see this in many Arab countries, but also in Europe. We've seen in some places that extreme political groups get their new spring. They're protectionists, and they owe it to everyone else as a cause of the problems that have arisen. They get scapegoats, and they're extreme in their method of coming up with their views. They resort to undemocratic means and violence to express their situation. We notice our place in Europe when we participate in different political forums. In such a forum, Baltic Sea cooperation, a working group was set up to look at tripartite cooperation between the authorities and the social partners. What would such cooperation mean for economic stability, democratic development and, above all, a halt to trafficking and social dumping? The work of this working group, in cooperation with the EU, has been very successful, and the answers are that cooperation between the parties has a positive effect in these areas. It is incredibly important that we, a rich country in Europe, use our situation to help other countries that now need all the help they can get out of the difficult situation, and not least learn from the situations that have arisen in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1277	There's been an interesting debate in many ways. I underlined in the line change after my main post that the Right's position is firm and has been solid throughout all the debates we have had. The fact that the right is too full EU membership should not surprise anyone, nor should we be at the same time to defend the EEA Agreement, perhaps especially now because there are so many attacks on the EEA Agreement, including. by representatives of the Government, namely the SV and the Central Party. At the same time, when you see that there is a decrease in the opinion on EU membership, which is not so surprising at the moment, you take the opportunity to say that you should also cancel the EEA Agreement. It's a development Right doesn't want. We are vigilant for the EEA Agreement. It is, as I have said several times, our lifeline to Europe. At the same time, in a living democracy, there must be the opportunity to discuss and problematize some aspects of Norway’s association with the EEA Agreement without being accused of either being against the EEA Agreement, talking it down or harming it. In particular, it is important now after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, because it is now the case that those bodies in the EU where Norway does not have access gain more power. It is, of course, a challenge to the issue of influence and democracy. One of the main reasons Norway wants full membership of the EU is precisely because we want to sit around the table and participate in determining the policy that will apply to us. Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said in his post that we have to dry to discuss what is in Norway's interest. Yes, I fully agree with that, and that is exactly why we have raised the issue of the Postal Directive. Our concern is that the government has decided to use the right of reservation against a directive where it is very difficult to see the reasons for post-transport that would be so much more burdensome than risking an uncertain outcome for Norway. In the context of the discussion on the Data Storage Directive, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, at the open hearing of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, presented the aspects of the difficult exercise of the right of reservation. He problematized many of those sides, and that was something the committee listened to. At the same time, we know that the Postal Directive is one of the directives at the heart of the EEA Agreement, which is more likely to give rise to an EU response. On top of all this, the EU side has now, through several evaluations, expressed strong criticism that countries can pick individual directives, i.e. they want more homogeneous practice. So when the Foreign Minister says ‘when we have now reserved ourselves against the Postal Directive’, I expect that there is a speech error, given that negotiations are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1292	At the beginning of this debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quoted on a statement to the Class struggle that the EEA Agreement has never been more important to Norway. After this debate, I would like to sum up that the EEA Agreement has never been stronger than it is doing right now. It is paradoxical because both the yes-side and the no-side in the popular movement have decided to use the ongoing investigation into the status and experience of the EEA Agreement as a breakstone to raise the debate on abolishing it – on the one hand to achieve membership, and on the other to achieve something that, with respect to reporting, is not described or concreted in any credible way. Nevertheless, and perhaps precisely so, in the very serious situation now facing Europe, of which Norway is part, a large majority in this Chamber have used this debate to underline the importance of calling the EEA Agreement and that we are not playing with the important bottom line for the Norwegian economy and Norway's relationship with Europe as the EEA Agreement constitutes. We have experienced a debate free of characteristics such as the «Economic Contract», which in previous debates has come from several quarters. That is a step forward. We have had access to a history description that I have to take advantage of the opportunity to reserve myself against. The representative Svein Roald Hansen said in a reply with the undersigned that the reason Norway has had such good economic development and much better economic development than the average of EU countries since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement is the wise and sound economic policy pursued here in the country. That was at least how I perceived him. I must then remind the representative Hansen that, prior to the referendum and prior to the introduction of the EEA Agreement, the movement that the representative Hansen has led, and other yes-people, warned of an economic disastrous development for Norway if we did not become members. So then it was that we were going to have an EEA agreement, the reason why it would go so wrong. I guess the truth is somewhere in the middle. There has been a reasonable economic policy of changing governments in this country over these years, but we have had an EEA agreement at the bottom that has arranged our relationship with Europe in a way that has served Norway well. We have to call about that, and I am glad that this has happened in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1299	I would also like to thank you for the debate. It's been fun for a while, a little bit of excitement, and we've challenged each other a little bit. It's in the name of democracy that you have to do, just in the name of a people's government. But what surprises me is that no more of those who almost love the EU project problem a little and see the challenges of the EU project itself and the introduction of the euro. I want to finish -- a closing point -- with a quote from Nobel Prize winner in Economics Paul Krugman: ‘For the truth, lack of discipline in money use is not all, or even the most important, the cause of Europe’s problems – not even in Greece, where the government was really irresponsible [[...]] There I believe we are at one of the cores of the problem, that there are some representatives around Europe – such as Svein Roald Hansen, Eriksen Soreide and others – who have been so in love with the EU project that they have forgotten to listen to what people have thought, and have introduced a euro even if it was not supported by the people for it, and thus it was not willing to introduce the political governance instruments. After all, the European People's Council is strongly threatened when it is welcomed by both Italy and Greece by the insertion of so-called experts rather than by the deployment of politicians. It's a big, big danger signal. So Foreign Minister Gahr was very concerned with concepts, and we are all engaged in politics. I'm also concerned with concepts, and I used the term "vettorette". I used the term used in the debate at the main hall in 1992 when they discussed whether or not to join the EEA Agreement. If you go into that debate and look at what concepts were used, you can see that it was the concept that was used, that it was reserved, that it was veto, that it was not a common EEA legislation if we said no in this room to introduce directives that came from the EU, if we thought it was not in Norwegian interest. The most joyous thing from the debate we had here a year ago until this year is that now we have had a big deal that has dared to discuss directives based on what we think is right, and what we see is our interests. I hope that when we get the EEA Committee's suspension around the turn of the year, we can also have an open and prejudiced debate here on both the benefits and the disadvantages of today's agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1317	Of course, the President will not interfere with the debate, but will only draw attention to the fact that governments in those countries have been designated by the national parliaments – we should have respect for colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1321	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I agree with the representative Højbrätten in, as I said in my statement, that the agreement has never been more important than now, and it has hardly been stronger in this Chamber since it was adopted by a majority of three-quarters. Some comments to the representative Woldseth – a bit as the president here says: I expressed the concern that politicians are withdrawing from the government and leaving it to so-called technocrats – now the head of the senator in Italy – but it is important to say that this is a political decision. The laws and policies of these governments must be passed through in parliaments. It is, after all, far better than if populist directions had penetrated with simplified messages. The representative of Nesvik was concerned that protectionism could emerge in Europe, with its own arrangements in different countries to try to protect its own activities. I think that's a proper analysis. This is precisely why the EEA Agreement is so important, because it gives us protection, predictability and equal legislation. To Tybring-Gjedde I would say, it's not easy with finances. Let me first start by correcting a mistake from me. So in terms of the degree SPU has invested in Europe, the number of bonds is over 100 billion. euro and for shares 115 billion. euro. The representative said the sum of government budgets is zero. What he probably meant is that deficits and profits weigh each other up. I think the Minister of Finance explained well: we are not investing in Europe to stabilise the euro, but it is natural that Norway is heavily concentrated in Europe, and given that these investments are long-term, they also contribute to stability. Then I think the comparison with the fact that we have a large public sector, and that has also, for example, been made. Greece, limp. There are questions about what kind of public sector, what kind of trade unions, what kind of tripartite dialogue exists in different countries – and here I think the Nordic countries have a lot to point to. The representative Irene Johansen spoke about whether we could get a European Union at more speeds. It was one of the things I noticed on my last visit to Brussels. It was also taken seriously where you can get a distinction between the 10 outside and the 17 inside the euro. Even the different institutions for these two are being discussed. That's something we're going to follow closely. Finally, on the right of reservation: I am a member of it. It is necessary for the integrity of the EEA Agreement. The reality is that we have now given notice to the EU that we reserve ourselves against the inclusion of the Postal Directive – if we have then reserved ourselves, used the right to reserve, I do not know how to interpret it, but at least we have said it very clearly, and I repeated it last week. When I react to the word ‘veto’, it is because the association with ‘veto’ is that you have stopped something and blocked it. The EEA Agreement, which the Storting had on the table when the debated ratification in this Chamber in 1994, states in Article 102 that the parties are obliged to work to find a solution, even after notification of a reservation through the so-called six plus six months, and also after that. The question will not be removed even if you notify a reservation, it is actually something we have to work on further. Norway is set up to comply with the provisions of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1338	Since the Minister of Foreign Affairs is a little instructive in style – this may not be the first time: I understand the differences in economics, government budgets and trade balances. I'm actually doing it. I've studied international economics, so it's going to be okay. I just want to mark it, because it seems a little arrogant when you try to teach the big business representatives that way. I just want to remind you. To the representative, Mr Mikalsen, who is not currently in the Chamber but who said that we should not blame certain aspects of the policy for the crisis in euro countries: that is quite right, so we should not do that. But in the speech the Foreign Minister said that social democracies, with a large state and strong trade unions, are just what is security, and that welfare model exists in the Nordic countries, and is an example of follow-up. There's black on white in the statement. So it is possible that he has said something he should not have said, but that is exactly what he has said. I do not think it is possible to blame social democracy or the right side of European policy for this crisis. It's more complex than that, and cultural factors are also the cause of this. I think we're going to have it with us, so next time we don't say something that we can't stand for, and that's actually not right. Then I remind you again, as I said at the outset, and as the representative Laila Gustavsen did not want to agree with me, but she said about the same thing, that we can actually build infrastructure in Norway. Because we have the unique, a very rich state, and we have a huge surplus, but we don't have labour. We need infrastructure, while in Europe they have unemployment and competence and can come here and build infrastructure. It's possible to think about something new. It is not new and exciting – it is possible that infrastructure is new and exciting for the Workers' Party, as the representative Micaelsen called it, but we in the Progress Party see that it is actually absolutely necessary for business to have an infrastructure that works. It is clear that there is a great lag and a great need for infrastructure, and then the labour available in Europe should be used. It is also a solidarity exercise, although it is not necessarily the starting point, for engineers who are unemployed and who have competence in building and road work, when we need it. It's actually possible to do – and not do as today, as the representative Gustavsen said, that we get people in a little by chance from every country, and some people use our well-being, while others don't. That's not what I'm talking about. Now we're talking about picking up layers, building roads -- long distances and parcels -- and doing what's necessary in Norway, and doing it now. Because we're unique right now, we have the big profit we have -- and 3,000 billion. on book.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1347	In fact, I have nothing to add, but I will only be allowed to say – when clear accusations were made against me by the representative – that I had no desire in any way to teach. I just wanted to correct a mistake I said, the sum of what is invested in Europe from the state pension fund abroad. The point of Tybring-Gjedde was not that the state budgets went to zero, if you put them together and subtracted, and that was probably what I solved. In the case of foreign, European, workers in Norway, the reality is that there are many of them today. They come here because we have an EEA agreement, and they do jobs that are very important for the Norwegian economy to go as it goes. You get the impression here that it's a phenomenon that doesn't exist -- it's a phenomenon that actually exists to the most extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1354	The next speaker is Laila Gundersen. The President will recall that there is a foreign debate in itself, and that there will be reasonable opportunities to continue a debate on a number of future occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1359	President! The representative, Gustavsen, would like to answer the criticism of Tybring-Gjedde. I would like to say that Tybring-Gjede should perhaps take a trip outside Oslo, for there we enjoy to those degrees the good smell of newly created asphalt. My point in my post was that we have done it in a different way than the Progress Party thinks we should. Their attitude has been to cut taxes and stimulate economic growth. What we've done, and the way we've dealt with the financial crisis, is to allocate targeted money to refurbish schools and town halls, to expand the care of the elderly, to build roads, to lay asphalt – the type of active instruments. My point is that through that we also put people into work, not only Norwegian citizens in Norway, but we also get some of what has been the potential in Europe. Then they come here under Norwegian wage and work conditions and not through social dumping that the party that Tybring-Gjedde belongs to would stand for. In policy – including in foreign policy and economic policy – everything is related to everything. I believe that the Progress Party then until those degrees are wrong with their way of arranging these things. In addition, the Progress Party has largely opposed all that is involved in the liberalisation of immigration into that country. So sung in the glare of an immigration policy that you have also been against, I think is quite daring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1371	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1389	Myanmar is a country that has been one of the world's toughest dictatorships for a long time. The approximately 60 million people have more than 50 years of experience with a very brutal and oppressive regime. On 18 July 1996, Norway promoted proposals for boycott in the United Nations of the country, as it was then called Burma, through a contribution to the UN Economic and Social Council. Not only has the name changed in Myanmar in the last two and a half years. If we call the development in North Africa and the Middle East the Arab Spring, maybe the awakening in Myanmar can be for a sunrise to count. It's time to discuss Norwegian policy towards Myanmar. Let me start with some considerations, first when it comes to choices. We know the story: the National League for Democracy, NLD, and Aung San Suu Kyi won the election in 1990, but never took power from the military regime, which instead put Suu Kyi in house arrest and drove the country iron-handed until last year's elections. After a elections last November that were definitely not free and fair, the situation ahead of the upcoming supplementary elections is very uplifting. The NLD went in last Friday to re-register as a party, after they were officially dissolved by the then military regime in Myanmar because the party boycotted the election that year. At the same time, electoral laws have also been amended so that so-called previous convictions – as they are often called, political prisoners – can now make choices. This also opens up so that Aung San Suu Kyi can keep quiet. In this way, the regime follows up its commitments from October last year to change the electoral laws so that the Peace Prize winner can once again take part in the policy. At the same time, this also opens up so that other dissidents can participate. There is a broad opposition in Myanmar, and more people can eventually also take up the legacy of Suu Kyi when it becomes a reality. Many have been imprisoned, but can now make choices. The regime has surprised us in many ways with reform measures. Hope is now that a democratic process is in place to ensure free participation in elections and social life. Myanmar is now very far behind for its neighbouring countries, e.g. China, India and Thailand, after 50 years of mismanagement. While we're going to enjoy development, it's very important not to be naive. Human rights are universal and must guarantee fundamental rights for all people: freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, social and economic rights and the rights of indigenous peoples – to mention something. On the other hand, there is one way to ensure that the entire population of Myanmar has fundamental human rights. 40 pst. of the population belong to different ethnic groups. Many of these, especially in border areas, have been subjected to systematic abuse of power and lack of protection over 50 years, with the result that many have fled to neighbouring countries but also entered the jungle. The situation of ethnic minorities is still very difficult and, of course, the international community still needs to press. So a little bit about the release of political prisoners: the regime has announced the release of 6,300 prisoners. Many have been released, and many have moved to prisons closer to home. But there are still too many to be allowed to visit from the family. The number of remaining political prisoners has actually become a matter of disagreement, and there is a debate about it in the country. Thailand-based AAPP, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners – which has long been the most important one when it has been pointed out on the subject of political prisoners – believes that it is about. 1 700, while last week the list of the National League for Democracy, NLD, showed 525 prisoners dissidents. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, is now also planning a visit to Burma. The resolution of political prisoners is still one of the most important issues to put pressure on. One can ask questions: What are the drivers for the changes? Is it e.g. Economic growth in China and Asia in general — which is absent in Myanmar — is therefore a strategy to promote economic growth? It's because the regime fears an internal uprising, as we've seen, for example. in the Arab Spring? Or is it short and sincere concern for the people and a will for democracy and a desire for change? I don't have a fasit, and it's hard to say what's the fasit. But maybe it's a combination of different reasons. Myanmar is now a slowdown measured against the social and economic development of neighbouring countries. It's natural that they want to fix it and, of course, stick to the enormous economic progress in Asia. A good and balanced relationship with both the West and China is important to promote, for example: investment. The country has so many opportunities, and a lot of resources, if it is given to investment and economic growth — opportunities, for example. in the case of gases, travel life and minerals. The role of Norway has gained increasing interest in recent years. We have been loyal to the international community and to our own proposal, to the UN and the EU. We have had contact with both the opposition and the regime in Myanmar. Our political visits and our diplomacy have now given us an international position to listen to. Of course, positive developments may reverse, of course governments may return to isolation, of course a military coup can destroy everything. But for the time being very many arrows point in the right direction: political prisoners are released, a Chinese dam project we know about on the other side of the border, was stopped because the people protested. The new government – which is formerly generals – has thrown its uniforms and suddenly talks about democracy and openness, and they show it in action. For example, the authorities have: – almost overnight – introduced some of the best employment laws in Asia. At the same time, they talk about environmental protection and sustainable development. Aung San Suu Kyi now urges the opposition politicians to stand behind President Thein Sein as long as he moves in the right direction. The question is how the world community can respond positively and support the new policy in Myanmar. It was basically a tragic event that caused us to get the foothold we have now got in the area – an enormous disaster, a cyclone that killed at least 140 000 people in 2008 – and that at that time we finally gave 100 million. kr in assistance, with the conditions that auxiliary workers were given access to the area, which in a way allowed the door to open. It gave room for political talks, and I think it's a room that both parties have taken advantage of wisely. The Burmese people are the ones who have suffered the most. A brutal regime and the consequences of international sanctions always go beyond those who have no other option than to stay in the country. It is therefore very important that we and the rest of the international community in the future are willing to discuss, and possibly when, we should ease the sanctions against Myanmar. I see mainly four different action options. One is the wait-and-see attitude, i.e. do nothing now - keep in touch, but do not make any changes. The second may be to lay down conditions for the abolition of penalties, e.g.: that we can lift sanctions when all political prisoners are released. The third is to cancel some penalties on its own behalf, i.e. walk in front of e.g. with regard to the lifting of investment bans. The fourth option of action is simply to cancel all penalties. Then we also have the question of whether Norway should go ahead, whether we should do something alone or whether we should do something with the others. Should we really wait for the others? Many Western countries say that releasing all political prisoners should be a prerequisite for facilitating sanctions against Burma. However, I believe that the time has come for Norway to facilitate some of the sanctions against Myanmar. In particular, I think it is important to discuss whether we should facilitate the sanctions against investment. We know that investment is one of the causes of economic growth, which is very important for the development of a country. I'm very excited about how the Minister of Foreign Affairs views the situation in Myanmar, how the government views further development of the country, and how Norwegian policy can contribute in a positive way to continue the recent positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1429	As the interpellant explains, recent developments in Myanmar are uplifting – and in my opinion more uplifting than in more than 20 years. The 2010 elections were neither free, fair or democratic, as the interpellant said. Nevertheless, it provided the basis for the establishment of democratic institutions and processes that have been crucial for the positive changes that have now taken place in the country following the accession of the new government in April 2011. In an inter-pell debate on Myanmar on 18 January this year, I said that a new political landscape had been created, that we would follow developments closely and evaluate policies and instruments in relation to it. We now see that the changes have been more frequent and have occurred at a faster pace than we could expect. The country has been given a functioning Parliament in which representatives from different parties have been able to openly ask questions and make proposals. The opposition has had a political leeway that they haven't had before. This also applies to the ethnic parties, which, despite the shortcomings of the 2010 elections, have achieved significant representation in the regional parliaments. A number of sensitive issues have been raised in Parliament, including a proposal on amnesty to political prisoners. The proposal was adopted and left the political basis for the release process we are now seeing. Furthermore, a new trade union law has been passed, a law which, according to the ILO, is the best trade union law in Asia. The sessions of Parliament are open to the public, are broadcast on television and are reproduced in the newspapers. All of this is completely new. Our impression now is that there are several social actors that contribute to moving in the same direction in Myanmar. Former opponents stand together. Aung San Suu Kyi has said several times, including to Norwegian politicians, that she is behind the President's reform agenda, and she is asking that the international community support him. There has been a substantive dialogue between the authorities and Aung San Suu Kyi and her party NLD. The negotiations have led to changes in the electoral registration law in line with NLD's terms and conditions, and the party has recently announced that it will take part in the forthcoming supplementary elections. So in a short time, NLD could be the largest opposition party in the country. The ongoing release process of political prisoners is important for its democratic development and Western confidence in Myanmar. In conversations with us, the authorities in the country have assured that this process will continue, which in that case will mean that the main demands of the West towards the authorities could soon be met. Then it is important that we stand by what we have said before, and that we do not move the target posts – to put it that way – in the future by promoting new demands before we respond. For the time being, Myanmar seems to be in a process of democratisation that has some of the same features as the history of some of the other ASEAN countries — for example. Indonesia. The changes have not come through regime collapse or revolution, but after gradual, controlled change and decoration from dictatorships and against democracy. As with the development of other Asian countries, Western countries must be prepared to do something in the process, and we must enable ourselves to respond quickly when necessary. The interpellant is quite right when she also points out that Myanmar is far from being something shiny. The human rights situation is worrying, especially in border areas, where armed struggles between the army and various groups are in progress. The civilian population suffers from the conflicts between the army and several ethnic armed forces. Still, there are deep differences between groups in Myanmar. Some places characterize this picture of conflict, some places we see a frailty that reminds us of subtractions from post-conflict situations. The ethnic dimension is probably the country's biggest challenge. It has never been solved, either under the British or after its independence in 1948. In meetings with the authorities, Norway is quite clear that the situation must be resolved by peaceful means and that violence or discrimination against ethnic groups is unacceptable. A solution here will require a lot of all parties, including the international community, to include Norway. We are committed to providing advice and expertise on reconciliation and conflict prevention if the parties so wish. It is communicated and will be followed up in the future. Interpellant asks what Norway can do to contribute to continued positive developments. Norway is one of the western countries with the most frequent political contact with Myanmar. The reason for this Norwegian commitment is that we want to contribute to positive development and ensure that we have an up-to-date picture of the conditions based on close contact with all actors. In my view, it is important that the international community meets the authorities, not unconditionally, but with a view to strengthening the positive forces of change. We now have a task of contributing to the President's reforms and leading to irreversible changes for the Myanmar community. So we have to see how we can somehow lock in the development of a further positive process. Norway is in line with the EU sanctions, and we want a common policy with the EU towards Myanmar as far as possible. In cooperation with the EU, we need to look at the whole common position and what areas we can adjust first. We also need to give ourselves enough flexibility to respond quickly to developments, both in a positive and negative direction. We have therefore started a discussion with the EU on the suitability of today’s actions for this. I discussed this with High Representative Ashton in Brussels last week. In addition to the EU sanctions, changing Norwegian governments have since 1997 encouraged not to go to, trade with or invest in Myanmar. Since Norwegian business appears to be essentially responding to the call, Norway has in practice Europe’s most restrictive policy towards Myanmar. As a result of recent developments, we removed our invitation not to travel to Myanmar. This was widely supported, including by the democratic opposition. In the future, we will continue to follow developments closely, not least with regard to the release of political prisoners, and we now have an ongoing assessment of cancelling the call to refrain from trading or investing in Myanmar. At the same time, we must realise that Norway cannot make the big difference to this country alone. On the other hand, what we do is noticed internationally and has been shown to be more and more interested from the EU, the United States and neighbouring countries. In discussions with other Western countries, we argue to engage in direct cooperation with the authorities. Only in this way can we effectively contribute to poverty reduction, climate and environmental work and other major demanding reforms that the country is facing. Capacity building is a keyword. Norway considers that international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as well as the United Nations and UNDP should be given the opportunity to contribute to the necessary capacity building, such as: In view of all the necessary economic reforms. As regards forced labour and extended democratic rights, it is necessary to give a more comprehensive mandate to the work of the ILO in that country. At the same time, we continue our humanitarian work within the country and support for environments outside that are working to promote democracy. We see that it is increasingly possible also for representatives of exile environments to return. We encourage the authorities to step up such developments and constantly assess how our support can best contribute to the building of democracy. So inside Myanmar, there is a lot of evidence that many now have confidence in the president and his reform agenda, but internationally there is still a lot of scepticism. This is not unnatural either when we see that a large part of the members of the government also had central positions in the previous regime. Furthermore, the new management has much to do to consolidate the positive impression that has been created. At the same time, I think it is wrong, as some people do, to maintain that it remains to be seen whether the authorities are serious, or only to show that positive signs have occurred earlier without any particular results. The current rulers have shown through words and actions that they are genuine in their will to change. Now they have to make the changes irreversible. And we have to contribute to that. Nor is Norway alone considering recent changes in Myanmar as positive. All of those we met in Myanmar thought that the president needed international support to show that the reform line is bearing fruit. This is a vision that also gets stronger hearings in other countries. In the United Nations Group on Myanmar, where Norway is a member of 16 other countries, including the EU, there is a growing understanding of the need for international society to engage and respond to positive steps. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, visits the country in December. High Representative Ashton came last Friday with positive opinions following the decision of the NLD to take part in the supplementary elections, and it is now also being discussed in the EU how to make the first adjustments to meet Myanmar. Norway has given particular attention to consultations with the management of Indonesia in its contacts. In conclusion, of course, it is not the case that only the authorities of Myanmar deserve recognition and reward in the light of the positive changes that are now taking place. The democratic opposition, too, and not least Aung San Suu Kyi himself, have stood and will face difficult elections. Many have made great sacrifices to promote democracy in Myanmar. It is also high time — and perhaps most importantly — to reward the country’s approximately 60 million inhabitants. Many live in deep poverty, and their interests must also be cared for by the outside world. After two decades of isolation and sanctions, Norway wants closer cooperation with Myanmar, precisely to enable its population to participate in the democratic and economic development of the region. Myanmar has both a resource base and other positive assumptions to achieve this. But now that we see that the political preconditions are also beginning to change, we need to make our contribution to speeding up such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1490	I want to start by thanking Minister Gahr Støre for a very good review and for what I say is a very positive and offensive attitude about the development of Myanmar. It's not an attitude he has only here today, but one that the whole government has had for a long time. I think the concept of locking in the positive development is very good. We're kind of in a phase in Myanmar where we're rebuilding our society. It is a well-known quotation in this room that ‘law is to build the country’. Making laws that benefit most people is what Norway supports, and of course we should support them in the future. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that Norway, in practice – for Norwegian businesses, has responded to the call for not investing, for example. in the gas sector – has had the strictest interpretation of sanctions in Europe. The United States has the strictest sanctions regime, and Norway has the most severe in Europe. I think it's a good place to start where the government has started, by encouraging people to go to and spend their holidays in Myanmar. Maybe we could also not encourage too long to invest in that country. We're really looking at it from a lot of situations in the world. Building a new state that stands by, based on principles of democracy and human rights, is a long-term work. At the same time, it is important that the ‘medium class’ — in order to use that concept — participate in it. How we create a stronger middle class depends, among other things, on how we create a stronger middle class. together with what opportunities people have to both feed themselves, secure themselves through education and work. So that project, if you can call it that, building conditions for people most and middle class in a country like Myanmar, is very directly affected, for example. of penalties. I am curious about what the others in this Chamber think about this debate. I thank you for an offensive position and look forward to the debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1503	As a starting point for the debate, I would like to make it clear that, on the action side, we in Norway stress that, in terms of penalties, we are joined by EU sanctions and are in close dialogue with the EU on them. Then we have this peculiar Norwegian call from the government of Bondevik – I remember well when it came, it was well in 1997 – that there was no desire to impose its own Norwegian sanctions that allowed restrictions on investments, but where the Prime Minister expressed strong advice to the Norwegian business community not to invest or engage in Myanmar. It's a line that successive governments have followed. What I'm warning you today is that the government is considering lifting that council. It will be made very clear to Norwegian market players when we do. However, we believe this is a one-sided Norwegian response that has sent a clear signal, and as it will now be possible to change for two reasons – both to meet a positive development, and to send a signal to Norwegian business, which deserves to be able to prepare and think of Myanmar as a potential area for investment, and where Norway should have opportunities, perhaps especially on the energy side, to play a role. And then there's the second: it's that, as an extension of our humanitarian commitment, we want to see the United Nations development organisations, like the Bretton Woods system, engage in Myanmar, because it's a country with great poverty, with great ongoing conflicts. We often don't think of Myanmar as a crown example of modern conflicts today, that they happen internally in countries and not between countries. But they're just as demanding to play with any peace. Today there are still fighting inside Myanmar between groups. A way out requires external involvement and support. This will also be supported by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1515	I thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. There's no doubt that there's movement in Myanmar. With regard to the development that Myanmar has left behind, there is a positive movement in many areas. Nevertheless, there is still a worrying situation, in which both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the inter-pellant were involved. According to Human Rights Watch, there are still nearly 1 700 political prisoners. Only since June this year have 30 000 people had to flee the Kachin province because of the intrusion of the Burmese army. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was quite right in addressing challenges related to several ethnic groups in border areas, where there is a very difficult situation that is not close to being resolved. In today's edition of the Daily Newspaper, Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim has a chronicle about Myanmar, and he concludes with one sentence: "We should give them what they ask for." This is a summary after portraying a relatively good picture of the development. Now I don't think that's the way to go giving someone everything they're asking for – maybe not a country in such a challenging situation as Myanmar. But when it is said: I agree that we are going through the sanctions we have, the sanctions we have with the EU, and that we are moving, not least – as the Foreign Minister said – to consolidate the positive developments we have, making it irreversible. With regard to measures — which have been mentioned to open up to investment, other areas — I await the discussion that will take place between Norway, the EU and other implicated countries, thus putting an active pressure on the authorities in Myanmar, and at the same time signaling that there will be more relief as these developments are confirmed. We hope that the authorities this time are serious. Nevertheless, we are concerned in many areas and are a little anxious to rejoice too early that Myanmar has taken seats among other democratic countries, as it is quite natural – and as we hope – that Myanmar will do in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1529	The representative, Gustavsen, has put an important interpellation and theme – Burma, Myanmar – on the agenda. However, there is reason to recall that in Myanmar there is still one million internally displaced persons; there is about one million internally displaced persons. 135 000 from the male population alone in refugee camps in Thailand. And it's still so that there are burnt villages, there are ruined crops in ethnic areas. It might also be nice to remember that the junta uses over 25 pst. by the state budget for defence and military upgrading, and I think that the words are comprehensive when I say that this is an unparalleled upgrade. This is also possible because the sale of natural resources does not benefit the civilian population, but rather the junta itself and trading partners such as China, India and Thailand. It is very important that Norway communicates with the democratic movements in Myanmar. However, I will also indicate that there is a need for cautious optimism, and that we also support the line on which the government has taken in the matter of further involvement – without being taken as a hostage for what, after all, can still be a process that does not lead. It is important that Norway has a line where we are critical but at the same time able to be constructive in the interaction. It is also important that we follow closely what representatives of the military regime do – follow closely their actions and not just what they say. We don't think it's time for a Norwegian alone. It is important that we act, but also interact in coordination with what is the international community, especially in the EU. Political prisoners still need to be released, and armed ethnic groups should also be established. The laws have been numerous, including the electoral laws that are now written about, so that former political prisoners can make political choices. This is what has also made it possible for the NLD and Suu Kyi to take the step back to Burmese politics, and this is probably the largest opposition party after the elections. There's a reason to enjoy. In summary, I think there is a basis for cautious optimism, that Norway must maintain the pressure on democratic development, along with other countries, and not ease it until there is reason to do so. It's not today. It's been a choice. It can also be a shell cover for both trading partners and junta to hide what is really going on. There may also be reason to recall that of these 30 state councils that are now publicly nominees, approx. 26 former generals or former ministers. So, unfortunately, the choice has meant several generals in several positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1542	I would first like to thank the interpellant very much for raising a very important topic for discussion, at an important time. As many have been involved, Burma has for a long time been one of the worst and most brutal military dictatorships in the world. Now we are in a very exciting development: the government has in principle become a civil government, we have seen some openness towards the outside world, we have seen considerable relief in censorship, there is a dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi, there are some political prisoners released, and we have seen some very important and positive changes in laws in different areas. At the same time, we still have a government that is not democratically elected. On the contrary, they are responsible for serious violations of human rights, both before and after last year's elections. They have an undemocratic constitution. Most political prisoners are still in prison, probably a four-digit number, and aggressive warfare is waged against their own populations. Nevertheless, we have to sum up that there is reason – let me call it – for a cautious enthusiasm and great optimism after a long period of standstill in Burma, while we are going to have a closeness with us. The Council of State is very clear that he perceives it so that President Thein Sein is serious. Yes, I will agree with that, but I will ask a question that none of the others have previously been asked: What is the president's goal in this development, and how far will his friends-in-law allow him to go? There is an important element in the discussion here that when people in different parts of the world shake off authoritarian regimes, like us. Now, looking in the Middle East, we in Norway have a tendency to believe that they have Western democracies as role models. That may not be the case at all. It is perhaps more likely that Burma looks to its neighbouring countries in the ASEAN region, which are far more open regimes than Burma. They have different variants of electoral arrangements and democratic arrangements, but few can be called well-functioning democracies. Vietnam, for example, is a more open and stable country, it's dealing with the outside world and is far less brutal than the Burmese regime. They do not have democracy; they do not allow real opposition; they do not have real freedom of expression and freedom of belief. China is another variant that has electoral arrangements and civil rule, but with great restrictions on democracy and freedom of expression. What is President Thein Sein's reference framework in this development, and what is the goal of the process he has initiated? It's an important question to ask. That's why we have to be positive about the developments that are taking place, but at the same time we have to ask critical questions, we have to challenge the regime to continue progress. And we're going to say that there is a real risk of setback through the coup from the «hardliners», which can still have central positions. With regard to the instruments from Norway in the future, carrots and whipping policies remain the recipe, and this has been the subject of the Council of State and the inter-pellant. Then it is absolutely essential for an effective carrot and whip policy that you ensure that you still have carrots to give to create further movement. If you distribute the carrots too early, you've given yourself the opportunity to give incentives to keep moving. That's the key to understanding the situation. It is natural to demand both the release of political prisoners, the cessation of warfare against its own population and the ceasefire in the East. It is important that Norway coordinate its voice with the EU here, and it is important to have close dialogue with the opposition, Aung San Suu Kyi, to ensure that the instruments we use are coordinated, effective and can lead to development. The main question here will be dosage and timing. We will closely monitor the use of the instruments by the government, and I agree that we should give the government positive feedback on the changes that have been made, while not giving up the opportunity to continue to stimulate further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1557	I want to thank you for the debate, which I think has been very good. In fact, it has also in many ways made visible the dilemmas involved, through various examples, both gross violations of human rights and positive developments. It was the representative of Hope who talked about dosage and timing, and I almost perceive the debate here today as if that's exactly what it's been about. I feel that everyone here today has stated that they are willing to look at and discuss the sanctions, and the relief in them, towards Myanmar, but that it is more about going alone or waiting for the EU to change its policy – and how should we do it – than about disagreeing that it is actually being done. Personally, I guess you never do things completely independent of other countries, even in this case. However, at some point this could be a country that, at the initiative of Norway — with the position we have managed to create over the past six months — could go ahead or give some clear signals to help other countries make changes, of course in a collective understanding. I agree with the representative Ingjerd Schou that there are many things that are very wrong in Myanmar, and we are not guaranteed overnight that just because we're going on e.g. penalties, distribute the goods fairly in their country. There will be an internal discussion in every country about how to develop that country. It's one of the challenges we're always facing when we're engaged in development policy and foreign policy. I just want to say that I think it has been a clarification debate. An interpellant debate is always so that we vent a little bit, and we think a little bit loud, and I think it's very positive that at least the parties that have spoken have been willing to discuss how we have sanctions against Myanmar. I still believe that this could be a country we can at home light up sanctions against, but of course not in a vacuum of our own, and of course to contribute to a positive development, as Mr Höglund spoke about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1570	This is the second debate we have on this this year, and I feel that the Storting and the Government are in good dialogue to follow this development closely. The representative, Håbreek, said it very well, that we experience a cautious enthusiasm. That, I think, is a good combination – to be the keys to the way forward. I think from the Norwegian side we're going to focus on following developments on the ground, as it's called, looking at it and seeing what's going on. Then we must also be able to see what has happened to now, since the previous debate we had. The development has led the country that may have the strongest critical look at Myanmar, U.S.A., to the fact that President Obama has sent his foreign minister on the first visit in decades to Myanmar. The question was raised about what the President wants. We can't really know that. I think he sees that without reform, there will be no development, that without reform, this people will be plagued in a way that creates more conflicts and more insecurity for any regime. I don't have any illusions that there are more or less democratic instincts in leadership in Myanmar, but I think we're going to guard against one trend, and that's moving the targets, as I said, as this development continues. If the reality is that Myanmar is in the process of implementing a social policy that is more in line with international commitments than with other countries in the region, to which we do not have sanctions, then we have a problem of being consistent with different countries. If it is that they adopt a labour law that the ILO believes is the most advanced in the region, if it is that there is a press freedom that can be measured and observed, and if it is that the choices they make are fair – well, then we have to find a way to answer it. I noticed that the Right Representative thought there was no reason to change our policy until now. We take that with us, but at the same time I feel that the majority in the Chamber are concerned that we too, together with our close partners, should be able to move and send signals back to the regime. So I'll say, as a last point: there may be setbacks, yes, and we'll be very aware of that. Therefore, we also have to be able to respond to setbacks. Now, if there's any signs coming in the direction of Myanmar that can stimulate a development, and there's any setback, well, then we also have to be able to rewind this back from our side. Thank you for a straightforward clarification and a good foundation for further policy in this area, which I believe brings together broad uprisings in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1588	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1615	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1624	The size is today invited to handle two issues related to our oil protection equipment. The Transport and Communication Committee of a Consultant shall meet in Prop. 133 S for 2010–2011 The European Parliament to agree in conjunction with the Protocol of 15 March 2000 on the preparedness, action and cooperation in the event of an accident of pollution involving dangerous and harmful substances. The International Convention of 1990 requires the Contracting States to be prepared for oil protection. The Convention also requires cooperation on research, development, technical assistance, warning and action to prevent and eliminate oil spills. Norway took an active part in the negotiations on the drafting of the Protocol to the Convention, which was signed in 2000 and entered into force on 14 June 2007. As of 30 May of this year, 26 States have acceded to the Protocol. When our country has not joined the protocol until now, it has its roots in organisational and economic conditions. It is linked to the transfer of responsibilities for emergency preparedness from the Pollution Control Agency to the Coastal Agency, and it is about the fulfilment of the equipment investments required by the Protocol. Both the organisational and the economic conditions have now been arranged, so that the protocol can now also be implemented for Norway. This Protocol strengthens the international regime for the protection of the environment by establishing a framework for the exchange of experience and international cooperation in the management of events involving acute contamination of dangerous and harmful substances. The accession of Norway will thus strengthen its ability to deal with such events. In a broader perspective, Norwegian membership and follow-up of the UN Maritime Organisation, the IMO, are important in itself, also as a contribution to the development of the IMO into an even stronger and more effective organisation. Our agreement to the protocol will be in Norway's interest, both as a coastal state and as a flag state. The second issue in the joint debate we now have is Document No. the 8th proposal from the Progress Party to strengthen oil protection. We have a vulnerable coastal environment, and it is important that we have as good a preparedness as possible in this area. With the activity we have along our coast and out and in and out of our ports, from time to time critical situations arise that, when the accident is out, must be managed quickly and efficiently. Another very important element is the changing and sometimes difficult weather conditions along the coast. In the summer, a holistic environmental risk and preparedness analysis was presented. This is a thorough analysis based on analyses of the likelihood of oil spills from shipping and environmental risks of acute pollution. Experience from previous actions is also an important basis for the analysis. The preparedness analysis assumes that the whole coast should be covered by a basic preparedness to deal with coastal emissions. In areas with a particularly high environmental risk, a higher level of preparedness is provided to manage more serious emissions. The main recommendations in the preparedness analysis are: strengthening IUA and municipal preparedness through the establishment of a level playing field in all response regions. The government's budget proposal for 2012 is a follow-up to this point. material investments to complement oil protection systems establishment of preparedness to call in bilge breakdowns by means of the rescue services of their vessels and pilots increasing the depot capacity increase through courses and exercises linked fishing boats and other owned vessels to the state depot investments in equipment suitable for use under ice conditions; According to my opinion and the Labour Party, the intention of the representative proposal is best followed up in the follow-up to the environmental risk and preparedness analysis announced by the government. It would be natural for the financial cost recommendation to be included in the annual budgets. At the same time, we see clearly that oil protection equipment and equipment have been much better through the red-green government's budget in recent years. I make my proposal with this minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1670	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1673	I'll begin by including the majority's proposal in the vote. It is important for Stortinget to stress the importance of good oil protection. Our coastal environment is vulnerable and must be protected from the damage that might result from oil spills. The negative consequences which may arise from the precisely petroleum activity and the shipping traffic along the Norwegian coast must be addressed in the best possible way. Our oil preparedness is therefore an important tool that must be of high priority. The precautionary principle must be taken into account in environmental policy. Targeted work is needed to prevent pollution and emissions. Nevertheless, it is important to have a short-response oil protection system and modern equipment to control acute contamination, if the accident is first out. On 19 August this year, the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast was presented with an analysis of oil protection. This analysis indicates that a rapid response to oil spills has a significant impact on the potential to limit the spread of oil and, consequently, on environmental damage. The analysis shows that good basic preparedness in the various response regions, proper access to ship resources, sufficient competent personnel and good management are important success criteria in oil protection operations. In this analysis, evaluation reports from actions carried out on the loss of MV ‘Full City’, MS ‘Server’ and MS ‘Rocknes’ and ‘Godafoss’ have provided important experience. During the “Godafoss” Sea it took six hours before oil lances were in place. Special attention has been paid to the importance of putting in place so-called speed electricians, so that the response time for oil spills can be reduced. Swedish marine rescue has invested in 25 speed barges that can be towed for up to 30 knots. In Norway, the Rescue Company has tested such speed electricians and established that the response time of the ‘Godafoss’ loss could have been cut to a third using such lighters. There is still a great need to improve oil protection in Norway. In the government's proposal for the 2012 government budget on aid for the operation of the rescue company, the government cuts. There is uncertainty about safety at sea and at sea. The integrity and security are left to membership quotas and lotteries. The safety of the sea is thus to be tolled and subjected to a jojo financing. The rescue company applied for a grant of 75 million. kr from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast for 2012. After pressure from opinion, from different opposition parties along the coast, from many environments, the government has granted 10 million. kr. This will mean that the two skaters in Egersund and Skjervøy will be in operation also large parts of next year. Of course, the rescue company and the coastal population are very pleased with this – including us. The rescue company needs to find another 20 million. kr. for existing operations. The rescue company will have to reduce its costs significantly. This goes beyond the prevention work of children and young people, manning reductions and the reduction of resources used to increase future income. The heading remains: uncertainty. The question arises as to whether there is a single additional allocation or whether there is an increase in the framework for years to come. The Government is responsible for the safety and rescue facilities at sea. This responsibility is also demonstrated by the reduction of the annual compensation to the rescue company from Norsk Typing by 8.6 million. kr. Additional uncertainties have been created. Such a reduction in overall coastal and offshore preparedness will also weaken oil protection. The government has made a lot of progress in the Northern Region Communication. If we're going to have a high activity in the north, we're going to have to get a complete investigation of the oil protection equipment. The northern regions are very vulnerable. The level of activity also requires better preparedness. An overall review of the entire oil protection system is important, in view of the objective of more goods from road to sea. If we want to move goods from road to sea, it means increasing ship traffic along the coast. Increased ship traffic means a significant increase in the risk of shipwreck and oil spills. We need to see oil protection in the context of transport policy. That is why we need a completely new plan for oil protection. The rescue company is an important part of coastal preparedness. What is their place in our readiness? We need a big and comprehensive investigation, a review of this, and that we get appropriations that don't fluctuate from year to year. It is difficult to build a good preparedness when there is so much uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1701	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1704	All know that coastal traffic will increase sharply in the coming years, due to increased international activity and increased oil and gas activities, among others. from Russia, but not least because it is a desired goal both in this room and from the Council of State and the government to move more goods from special road to sea and rail. Then it is also important that you actually set things right and that you ensure that you have a proper and good preparedness. The Progress Party and I believe that it is important to focus strongly on prevention, which is, of course, done. by having a proper standby both in the case of tugboats and in the case of having depots readily accessible and easily accessible in the event of an accident. I am convinced that everyone in this room, and everyone else, wants to see as many accidents as possible happen, that we should not experience the accidents we have seen with both ‘Godafoss’, ‘Full City’ and ‘Server’ and other marine emissions. But then it's incredibly important that we have the preparedness in place, that we make sure that we have enough depots, and that we have well-trained crews to be able to handle it when an accident occurs – and there's discharge into the sea. I think it is gratifying that the government has finally taken on board that the rescue company needs more money, because the rescue company is a very important part of oil protection in this country. I think it's good that you now managed to find 10 million. kr. But the rescue company has said that they really need $30 million. kr to maintain the preparedness that we now have along our coast. The 10 million. In any case, kr means a slightly less reduction than what was actually achieved with the Government's proposal. It shows that when most people, when the Rescue Company as an organization, when the opposition together and when people in the government put a real pressure on the government, you actually manage to get something, and I'm very happy that we've managed to get 10 million. kr more to the Rescue Company. But, as I said, there's still 20 million missing. kr. This means that there will be less training — probably — and there will be a worse preparedness than what you could have had if you had followed the wishes that the Rescue Company actually had. So to our proposal. The majority want to get a proper review and make sure you get a stand-by that will make us well equipped to prevent disastrous consequences when the accident is over. I think it's good that the Council of State points to the analysis, how many people go into the oil protection system, and some of the things you've done. But you say very little concretely about what's actually lying there. We want to know a little bit about what's going on in that analysis, both in the short and long term. Maybe you should even let some outsiders, and not the Coast, make this analysis, so that you could see things with new eyes and maybe new opportunities, in an even better way to ensure good oil protection in the future. One of the examples that shows that when several heads get together, you can do even more and get even more, is actually the Rescue Company and the desire to put in place lighters that allow you to get out oil protection equipment very quickly when an accident occurs. Because, as the Coast Guard also says, it is important to be quick on the plate if there is an accident, and then high-speed boats that can get the equipment out are very important. I find it sad that the majority in this Chamber will vote in favour of the majority of the committee. I actually think it would be very good to get a proper review, get a review that also takes care of the economic challenges, and make sure you have the world's best oil protection equipment in the world's second best country to live in, it was well. We've been the world's best country to live in, but we should afford to have the world's best oil defense, to go in the spring and water in oil, nobody likes it. That is why I hope that the majority in this House will now make sense and support the majority of the committee, so that we can get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1717	Maritime transport represents both environmentally friendly and cost-effective transport, but can at the same time pose an environmental threat of accidents. At the same time, however, government parties – the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party – want maritime transport to be strengthened, as today's national transport plan states. We want to stimulate growth in maritime transport, and we want to ensure both maritime safety and prevention of adverse events. There is an increased budget for oil protection, but at the same time there is a need to further strengthen State oil protection. This is why the Swedish Coastal Agency has developed an environmental risk and preparedness analysis, which came in the summer, with particular attention to acute pollution. The rapporteur has carefully explained what lies there, so I shall not go into detail about it. It is clear that this is important for the further work to be done in this area. Coastal sailing managers are established. First came the Kirkenes–Røst, and from 1 June 2011 it was placed off the coast of the South and the West. It is important to ensure a good and proper transport corridor. A reinforced towing boat stand is also in place, which is also important in the case of oil protection. A part of the further work must also be the development of new equipment. Therefore, interaction between maritime industry, R & D and development actors needs to be strengthened. Better cooperation between all actors on the maritime side is important – whether they have their daily work at sea or whether they are the public operators or the more involved in civil activities and the link there. The rescue company is clearly part of this cooperation. The centre party, together with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, has strengthened the company's appropriations, which are also clear in this room. More goods on the keel is our goal. Therefore, this theme will be central to the roll-out of the national transport plan. That is what this debate is going to be about too fully. We must interact well with many different actors to achieve the objective, because it cannot be achieved only by enhanced preparedness. We have to get all the actors who have the opportunity to transport goods on the cold to help us make that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1732	It is a very important matter that today's two issues are addressed. Let me start with oil protection. I fully agree with the Committee's overall observation that oil protection is an important tool that should be of high priority. I believe that this government has given this area. Over the last few years, we have significantly increased the appropriations for emergency preparedness. As a follow-up to the Coastal Works' 2006 report on the proposed replacement plan, the Coastal Works have been provided with increased funds for upgrading and renewing the State oil protection equipment. We have now put in place modern and efficient equipment in the depots, and a coastguard vessel has been equipped with oil protection equipment. In 2011, the budget increased by 25 million. kr – this in order to follow up the experience of actions in recent years related to the need to strengthen preparedness for acute contamination. In particular, efforts are now being made to strengthen coordination between actors involved in actions, including through: increased course and exercise activity and focus on action management. Furthermore, in 2011 the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has been given the means to conclude contingency agreements with fishing vessels and other suitable vessels. The increase in appropriations in 2011 was continued in the government's draft budget for 2012. In addition, for 2012, we have proposed further strengthening preparedness by increasing the allocation by 15 million. kr. In doing so, the government will ensure that the municipalities and the inter-municipal samples have access to the necessary equipment so that they are better equipped to assist quickly during state action. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important that we regularly assess the level of preparedness in relation to the development of the risk picture. The coastal body has therefore recently submitted an updated overall environmental risk and preparedness analysis related to acute pollution from ship traffic. This analysis assesses inter alia: current readiness in the light of traffic development, actions implemented and experience gained from actions. In my opinion, the analysis of the coastal works provides a very thorough investigation that provides many good input and a good basis for further work in this field. The preparedness analysis will be an important basis for further government work on preparedness for acute contamination. Viewed in the light of that and the thorough review we have received, I do not see the need for further investigation. In the future, I will focus on how best to follow up the recordings and recommendations given in the analysis. Follow-up activities that have economic consequences will, of course, be presented in the ordinary way to the Stortinget. So a few words about the OPRC-HNS protocol, which deals with preparedness for accidents with dangerous and harmful substances at sea. The Protocol establishes a framework for exchange of experience and international cooperation. It also requires the national emergency response system in this area. The Nuclear Preparedness Crisis Committee, led by the State Radiation Protection Agency, is responsible for the preparedness for radioactive discharge accidents. The Coastal Plant is responsible for state preparedness for accidents involving other hazardous or harmful substances. The operational standby shall be based on the fire services special groups for rescue operations at sea, the RITS groups, in Oslo and Bergen. The OPRC-HNS protocol strengthens the international regime for the protection of the environment. It is part of the Code of the IMO of the United Nations Maritime Organisation, and in a broader perspective, it is in Norwegian interest to contribute to the continuation of the IMO as a strong and effective organisation. Norwegian accession and follow-up of the Protocol are important in this context. However, the main argument to accede to the Protocol is that it will strengthen Norway’s ability to deal with marine accidents with dangerous and harmful substances. On this basis, I recommend that Norway join this protocol. Then there's been a lot of talk about the Rescue Company in the posts before me, and I really appreciate that. I am very pleased with the solution that we found, that we found more money for it and propose it to the Storting in budgetary terms. But now we are discussing oil conservation. The State grants grants to the Rescue Company – it is related to saving life. These are two very different areas. As far as oil protection is concerned, there is a business relationship that they are of course discussing with the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, but we do not grant it. That's what's important for me to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1773	In several of the accidents we have unfortunately experienced along our coast, the lack of competence and equipment have become visible too many times, with regard to both preparedness and clearance. In the Gulf of Mexico, we think that this issue came out clearly. During a visit to what we can call high-skilled companies in oil protection, such as Germany. Also located in the northern states, we feel that there are equipment and competences that are not being used. The question then arises: What will be done within the departments responsible for keeping up-to-date with what is available equipment and knowledge in order to have the best possible preparedness, and when accidents are out, to be able to pick up as much of what has been released?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1783	The fact that we have equipment that may not always have achieved goals, especially when the northern regions have been brought forward, I think we can quickly agree on it. Then we talk about weather conditions, wave heights and such, where the equipment that is – let's say – well enough, still does not exist. However, that there should be equipment that someone is not familiar with by those who are responsible for the overall oil protection equipment, at least I do not have an overview of. I assume that all the actors responsible for oil protection – and what we are discussing now – are the cases where there is State action that is in place, because there is the Coastal Agency that is responsible – at all times of course know what equipment is there. What has been pointed out is coordination and competence. That is why we are now proposing to grant money, in line with the findings of the preparedness analysis, which also points to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1790	The Council of State describes that the rescue company does not necessarily have anything to do with oil protection, and I hope that is not the situation. The country organisation has underlined the continuing need for a marked strengthening of the overall oil protection response along the entire Norwegian coast. When the fast route needed help in Ålesund, it was the rescue company that was first in place with drag. The coastal work's own boat was neither called nor used in the first time. The question to the Council of State is: Is the addition of the rescue company of 10 million. kr is a one-off sum, or is this something that will continue in the future? In practice, the rescue company is actually involved in preventing and preventing accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1799	Now, what I was clarifying instead was that we were talking about two different things. What we, the state, granted funds to and grants to, is lifesaving. When we discuss oil protection, we're in another area. It's important to me – and I think it's equally important for the Rescue Company – that we separate the two areas, for different reasons. At the same time, of course, the rescue company provides assistance by holding boats. It is true that those who are closest to the sea are the ones who like to go to – and that is the Rescue Company very often. They were in Ålesund, where we have received a report from the Head Rescue Center that it was possible for them to get in place as quickly as possible. It could certainly be the case to save lives when the fast route was in fire, and it would take longer with the boat lying at the dock in Ålesund. As far as the budget is concerned, we come back to it naturally – as usual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1808	Two things: During a consultation on the 2012 State Budget, the Landsorganisatione (Landsorganisatione) stated the following: ‘LO will stress the continuing need for a marked strengthening of the overall oil protection response along the entire Norwegian coast.’ Do they make mistakes when they say there is a need for a'significant strength'? The second concerns this risk and preparedness analysis carried out by the Coastal Agency and referred to by the Council of State with regard to the proposal of the Progress Party. The question is then: To what extent has the Coastal Plant used external forces to look at both risk and preparedness? There may be other glasses than the glasses of the Coastal Works. Some of the previous accidents have shown that there has actually been a great need to see with some new glasses on the oil protection system. Has it been used, and why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1820	To the question of a marked strengthening of the oil protection system: Yes, that's exactly what we're doing. We've done it year after year. We have followed up the proposals and the plan that existed from the Coastal Works, to the point and the point. We already started to follow up the report they came up with this summer in connection with next year's draft budget. We got it in July, as far as I remember, and as early as next year's draft state budget, we're adding money in line with what they're proposing there. To the question of external forces has been involved in the assessment, – as far as I have an overview of here I am now standing – is the analysis presented by the people of the Coastal Agency. There I feel that we have those who are tested, and can give us good, professional contributions, which in the next round we follow up the point by point. But if someone has other suggestions, we'll of course discuss them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1827	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1832	A strong and dependable oil protection system along the entire coast of Norway is important for further legitimacy for an industry that provides great income and incentives to keep one of the world's best welfare societies at bay. We also know that the traffic along the Norwegian coast with environmentally hazardous loads is high, and he is going to increase sharply in the future, for example. due to international trade and increasing Russian oil and gas industry, where there are also high expectations of findings, also on the Norwegian side now that the part-line agreements are in place. As is known, Norwegian oil production is exclusively based on offshore installations, and Norway should have a particular interest in further developing the best technology in the field of emergency. The Norwegian State, through its ownership of Statoil and Petoro, also has a special responsibility to contribute to the development of technology in the field of oil protection, and to the rapid escalation of preparedness. With the precautionary principle as the foundation, the Progress Party sees that there is a significant potential to improve preparedness along our long-range coast. In previous debates on this topic, proposals have been made to the government to take initiatives towards the oil industry and to set up a technology development programme to deal with leaks also on deep water, and that the petroleum industry must be silent with resources in the form of capital and competence. In addition, it has been argued that participation in such a programme should be required to operate on a Norwegian base. This initiative has been taken in other countries as a consequence of the Deepwater Horizon emission in the Gulf of Mexico, and one will emphasise the importance of Norway’s role as a driver in this important work. Experience shows that huge resources are required to deal with the consequences of the type of oil spill witnessed in the Gulf of Mexico. The clearing work following the loss of ‘Full City’ outside Langesund in Telemark in the summer of 2009 was also a thought-provoking exercise in response time and the availability of crews to clean up oil spills in the spring. On 17 February 2011, the basic support container ship ‘Godafoss’ outside of Whaler, with 800 tonnes of crude oil on board. There were recorded leakages from two tanks in the middle of the ship, each containing 250 tonnes of crude oil. In retrospect, it appears that an agreement has been reached with the Rescue Company on the use of their resources to increase preparedness for the acute contamination. And that's very good. But we still can't say exactly. The party of progress believes that there is still a great need to improve oil protection in Norway, and that the government has a piece to go before she can say she's quite satisfied with her preparedness. It is against this background that we, as proposers, make the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose to the Storting how oil protection can be strengthened along the coast, in the light of the experience gained from the baselines of the ships ‘Godafoss’ and ‘Full City’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1859	I think we should all be aware that regardless of how we organize, it is very difficult to protect ourselves against major damage if a major accident occurs. That is exactly why it is very important that we give this high priority, and have the best possible pre-war preparedness. So we can ask ourselves, do we have that? We can look at the accident in Biscayabukta with Prestige. There were 20,000 people cleaning up the beach for months to get it pretty good. There's a fair temperate sea. What do we have in the north areas if such an accident would happen there? You can draw a comparison with when the fast route came in fire in Ålesund. What preparedness would we have had in Finnmark if this were to happen in Berlevåg or in Båtsfjord? We do not have any response groups in Finnmark that are specially trained to be able to board boats and extinguish fire at sea. Then we had to pick up crews from over 100 miles away. The reaction time we had in Ålesund would be many times longer. Anyway, this government says, here's everything very well, and no one's going to pinadao come and tell us something else. At the same time, it is said that this is an extremely important area in which we must have the best possible preparedness. But to be willing to go in and see what you can actually do, you jump over it. Norway as a coastal nation is much more closely related to the sea than, for example, our neighbouring country Sweden. Our dependence on the sea is much greater. Nevertheless, we see Sweden going to the purchase of 25 speed lighters, just to be able to reduce the response time and become much more effective in absorbing oil beer. What do we do in Norway? In Norway, we assess whether we should go for purchases. We're assessing. I remember that in the context of the 2010–2011 state budget, I asked a question about the money that had been allocated for oil preparation had been spent. When we got halfway into the year, it was $71 million. NOK 105 million. kr still not used. [[The President clubs.]] It's not a healthy sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1872	At least the representative of Fredriksen has used up his speaking time. The President would just point out that 'pinadø' is an unparliamentary expression in this Chamber. It is possible that it is valid in other parts of the country, but not in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1877	It is a pleasure that the representative Hoksrud thought it was a pleasure of ten million. additional NOK to the Rescue Company. It's not everyday food that the representative Hoksrud boasts of the red-green government, so we're going to take that with us. But it shows that the government listens to the highest degree, that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are listening here in the Chamber, and that we are not living in a political vacuum. The word “trist” tends to be the mantra of the representative Hoksrud, while others use the word “shock”. It is therefore gratifying that the representative, Hoksrud, only used the word ‘trist’ once in his statement. Otherwise, this debate has been a good one. We have a high pressure, and I think we'll continue to have a high pressure on oil protection. And the last words are guaranteed not to be said with the debate today. I think that's good, and we think that in the red-green crowd is good. Since we took over, we've had increased focus on the area. We have increased the appropriations considerably. We've strengthened the Coast Guard, we've been given new sailing routes and better equipment. We're working on coordination, but there's obviously a potential there. I'm from Southland myself. We didn't have any up-to-date, good enough oil protection, but it fixed the red-green government. That happened a few years ago, so now we have a tugboat in place in South Africa. It had to be a red-green government to fix it. The fact that it is presented here as if nothing has happened, that is not true. A lot has happened, but this is an area that one has to follow carefully – and as I perceive the government is following closely – and we have to constantly stretch to get even better. That we have a high level of ambition and a high pressure, I think is positive and good, and we're going to keep having that. I thank you for a good debate from both the opposition and the position here. It is very gratifying that we get such brilliance from the representative Hoksrud, because, as I said, it is not everyday food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1888	There is no particular doubt that oil protection has improved somewhat over the last 20 years in Norway, which has also been imperative. If we think about some of the last disasters we've had at sea, the result is serious. With the focus on environmental protection that we have around us, both in Norway and in the world, today, I think that the focus will only be even stronger if we have oil spills along our coast. Now, oil protection is an important piece, but what is it ready for? Well, it's ready for us to avoid accidents at sea, and especially at us along the coast, because we have a very vulnerable coast. Several people today have pointed out that coastal traffic is going to increase significantly if, to put it that way, we get what we want. And if we don't get what we want, it's going to increase anyway, because there's going to be a lot more oil traffic along our coast, especially in the northern part of the country, which is particularly vulnerable in this context. I would like to point out that there are several basic elements in this. One thing is the unloading service, which today is expensive for some companies – so expensive that some owners choose to choose it away. It's very unfortunate. Perhaps it is that we would rather get a few more fairway vouchers and get the price down for those who really need the losers. Then we will avoid getting accidents associated with it. Another thing is the ropeboat readiness, which is kind of the same thing, because when a ship has come into the situation that it risks going ashore, you can avoid going to the step of using the oil protection device, as long as you have a good towing boat readiness. Here I would like to point out that we have got it well in place in the South, we have got it well in place in North Norway, but in Central Norway, and perhaps in particular near where the Council of State itself comes from, it is not very good – and it is a very strongly exposed area, where it will have great consequences for the particular operation of the coastal area if anything happens. Now something has been said about the rescue service here, and it's clear that it's not a direct part of this, but it's a service that means a lot to prevent us from needing oil protection. That's why it's nice that we got some extra money, and I hope that the Council of State will take a good look at it and make sure that we get funding that will keep us running it. I very much appreciate the fact that the Coast Guard has now been assigned to make an overall assessment of the state preparedness. In addition, the Council of State also sought to coordinate services. I think that is very important and should be included in exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1904	These speeds have been discussed for a while, and it is true that Sweden has ordered 25 pieces, but then there is something about Swedish waters being something different than our waters around the coast. However, the new emergency analysis underlines the importance of rapid response time and the fact that fast-moving oil protection lighters – speed chargers – which are pulled by rescue skates or pilots can help reduce response time when weather conditions are favourable. The Coastal Agency and the Rescue Company are now working together to test out the concept of such lecturers and adapt the equipment to Norwegian conditions. The proposal to build a standby based on fast-moving lecturers will then also be considered here. But, as I said, one has to test this out, because it's clear that if you have to drag this in 25-30 knots, what you're dragging can not be very heavy, and if it's just light things, it's not that easy to pick up oil and prevent emissions – it's spreading if it's too easy. So I think it's very important and right that we now have to test this in a proper way, before any one goes to larger purchases. And in any case, it will certainly only be part of our coastal areas that are capable of having this material. I would also like to show that exactly two weeks ago the Committee on Transport and Communications was on a committee trip to Ålesund. It was a fantastic place – 16-27 degrees, brilliant weather – and we met with the Coastal Agency and the Director there. She said she had been in that job for four and a half years, and at that time her budget had increased from 1.4 billion. DKK to SEK 2.7 billion kr. And well, it was nice where we were, but they didn't have great money and spent the money in their offices. No, that increase has gone a lot to upgrade what's going on with the themes we're talking about now, and to strengthen the operational services. So I think we're very good at seeing. That LO is impatient, some of us are used to it. To build up the oil protection equipment even more, we also have to work with and probably also find even smarter ways to do things, where other actors too can be more involved in this fissure layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1915	Questions have been asked about external assistance in the development of the preparedness analysis. Since I could not answer the reply, I allow myself to do so now, because I have now been checked for the facts. This environmental risk and preparedness analysis consists of three parts. One is a probability analysis, which deals with the likelihood of ship traffic discharges. There the Norwegian Veritas have been contributors. It is an environmental risk analysis, which Norske Veritas has also participated in, plus the Directorate of Nature Management. And it's a preparedness analysis, as the Coastal Agency stands for alone. Then there are questions related to new investigations, new analyses. There is a very detailed and broad review of the preparedness for risk in that analysis and in the report presented this summer, including key points. strengthening IUA and municipal preparedness through the establishment of a level playing field in all response regions. It's a matter of material investment to complete oil protection systems. It is the establishment of readiness to call the Havarist with bilges by means of the Rescue Service, vessel and pilot ship. It's an increase in the depot force. There is an increase in competence through courses and exercises. It is linking fishing boats and other suitable vessels to the State depots and, in particular, investments in equipment adapted to use under ice conditions. I am very much in favour of a knowledge-based policy design, but I am also very happy to act. I feel that we have a basis for doing business now. That is why the government in its draft budget has already committed funds for next year. So I could, like more, have gone through the list of what's done. I'm not going to do that. But the representative Fredriksen was inside what would have happened if the fast route had been set on fire in Finnmark. Here it is that calculations have been made for the most part, also in terms of the probability of fire both on the fast way and on other ships – unfortunately I am a little poor at remembering numbers, but there is a very small probability of that. So we could have wanted 100 pst. provide absolute preparedness anywhere. This is why it is important to do what the Swedish Coastal Agency recommends, namely to strengthen local preparedness, to strengthen local IUAs, and not least to coordinate the various agencies we have in the field of preparedness. These included: the background to the establishment of an oil protection forum by the government, in order to facilitate good interaction and cooperation between public and private oil protection operators. That's what we have to do all along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1928	I am recording that the representative de Ruiter thought it was nice to be proud of the government. If that's something you think is very good, I think you should say it, and then you should take up what's not quite that good. I think the representative basically just heard what was positive, and that he didn't want to hear so much about the other. That's okay – it's not safe for him to experience it so many more times. But I think a lot of good things have happened when it comes to oil protection. That's not what it's about, it's not a disagreement about it, but it's actually the way that some of us want more, and we also want it to happen much faster than the government is now adding up to. We know that part of it, among other things. the equipment has not been purchased in the past – you are in the process of purchasing it. In the past, we have, among other things, asked questions as to oil protection preparedness. Then I see that the council did not think there was any nice question, but I know at least that we have asked questions about it, and expect that it is now purchased, and that all that is in order. When, both in the guise of the throne and in the presentation of the budget, you brag about everything that's added in terms of oil protection, and that it's a bet area, I have to say that I'm not quite sure it's how it feels out there. That's good with $15 million. kr to IUA to make them better and to do more. It's very positive, because I think it takes a lot out there to be able to have better oil protection when something happens, and that you're prepared for it. But we also know that several of the traffic centres have had to replace parts of the equipment you now have, because it is getting quite old more places. So there are big challenges to this, but you want more. We are pleased with what the government has done, but we also know that there is a lack of towing boat standby in some places where it should have been more and strengthened towing boat readiness. That is what this proposal is about. I think it is good that the Council of State should explain the analysis that has been made, but we should like to see it come from the Council of State – and also a little more thoughts about what you want with this, and how quickly you want to move forward. Because we have old reports that prove that there is still a great need to strengthen oil protection in large parts of our country. But I think it's good, it's been a good review, and it's been a good debate and a good discussion. Then we get to hope that the government continues to follow this up – and even faster, because that's what the Advance Party wants. We're dedicated to having a proper oil protection system. We want it to be in place all over the country. We don't want to go around in oil beer because you haven't had a good enough preparedness. I am convinced that the whole House agrees with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1939	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1955	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e1966	That is the time to deal with the annual monitoring notification of the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries for 2011 and the fishing activities under the agreements in 2009 and 2010. Last year, I would like to point out that this communication is important and provides a good and comprehensive description of the work of the Norwegian authorities and underlying agencies to ensure Norwegian fishing interests internationally and a sustainable harvest of the resources. As a significant port, Norway has a great responsibility for and important interests in the development of the international community’s relationship with the use and protection of the sea. In this picture, it's important to be clear that 90 pst. of the resources we harvest are populations we share with other countries. The main challenges are to make use of the precautionary principle and the principles of sustainable use of ecosystem-based management. Norway has large and productive areas and significant knowledge of management of the marine environment and fishing resources. It is therefore important to have a comprehensive Norwegian maritime policy and to have an international impact on Norwegian policy. At the bottom of this is the need for Norway to contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources internationally. It is therefore good that Norway has established long-term management plans for all our important common stocks and welcomes the fact that the ICES plans have been confirmed to be in line with the precautionary principle. It is very positive that the Communication confirms that a major element of cooperation between Norway and Russia on the management and control of the Barents Sea was also last year to strengthen control of the withdrawal and transhipment of fish in this maritime area, and that countries agree to ensure sustainable management of resources. The notification also shows that there was no recorded overfishing or illegal fishing of cod in 2009 or 2010. It also appears that cod stocks are in very good condition in the north and that cooperation with Russian fisheries authorities has produced good results. In this respect, I cannot fail to mention that the first summary of the year's ecosystem tax in the Barents Sea shows that most of the large fish stocks are still in good standing. There have been measured large quantities of cod, solder and haze, while little herring has been observed. In the negotiations with the EU, there was agreement to reduce the quota on cod, in line with the revised recovery plan. However, it is worrying that Iceland and the Faeroe Islands both in 2010 and 2011 have established significant mackerel quotas outside the established administrative regime, as this could threaten the population. The notification also shows that Norway was active in different international organisations, both in the field of multilateral fisheries cooperation and in regional management organisations. In these years, the development of fish has also continued, both nationally and internationally, and the fisheries management prioritizes international cooperation on resource control. It is also very interesting to note the great effort made to establish an international framework for port State control, and the Food Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, adopted an agreement in 2009, on the initiative of Norway. There are three overall objectives underpinning Norway’s involvement in the various negotiation processes and the international resource management forums: promoting Norwegian principles for the management of living marine resources, primarily the principle of sustainable management based on the best available scientific knowledge and the principle of ecosystem-based management to ensure a fair share of Norway in the allocation of allowances for common regulated stocks, primarily based on the principle of zone ownership to ensure satisfactory control and enforcement within the administrative regimes in which Norway participates; The issue we are dealing with today shows that Norway plays an important role in fisheries negotiations with other countries and that Norway's role is significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2008	Initially, I will be allowed to give the Council of State and the Department a favourable opinion on the communication that has been submitted. The communication has provided a very good basis for the debate we are going to have, and not least the position put forward by the Committee in this matter. This is a communication to the Stortinget on how the fisheries agreements that we have concluded with other countries for 2011 have gone along and fished for the agreements in 2009 and 2010. So it's in many ways a historical reflection, but it's important to have it at the bottom in order to be able to learn from this in the new agreements that we're entering into. The rapporteur has given a good account of the number of agreements and the proportion of fishing activities carried out by Norway in relation to common populations with other countries. It is very important to bring with it when we are now going to discuss this, and not least the future of the Norwegian fishing industry and how we are going to behave internationally. I'm going to go into several different points that it opens up in these agreements, because the message is also about international organisations that we're members of, and how we act there. I want to start with an area that has been discussed far too little in this room in recent years. It's connected to sales and self-anxiety. Unfortunately, we now see a trend where fewer and fewer shots go into the ice to catch. This makes the harness grow in number. This also means that the danger of getting new selinuations into our coast is increasing, with the result being poorer quality and diseases of the fish in the near coastal zone. In addition to this, the harness eats extreme amounts of fish, and the big question we're about to have to start asking ourselves is, who's going to be at the top of the food chain? Is it the selenium to be at the top of the food chain, which some abandoned actors and others in some other countries seem to think, or is it the human being to have food? I am going for the last time, and I expect the Norwegian authorities to act on that basis. That is, we have to do a significantly larger international job related to understanding why we're catching sales – not just the fact that it eats a lot of fish, but also the fact that if we get it along our coast, it will affect the quality of the fish. Of course, on the part of the authorities, this is a matter of facilitating the conditions for these shots to go into the ice. There has been a lot of back and forth – we have seen problems related to the reception situation, which shots qualify to go into the ice, etc. I hope the Council of State will follow this matter carefully and make sure that we have an upward self-afraid environment that can just make sure that the human being is still at the top of the food chain in this field. The case rapporteur was involved in the Port State Control Act. It is a matter on which there was unanimity in the Storting, which is a sensible measure and an important measure, because the fish landed in different types of countries can then be better controlled, just to see if illegal, unregistered fishing occurs. But I don't think we should be blind to the fact that the agreement is now at the bottom, and then this will solve itself. So it doesn't. This also has to do with how we follow up ships that do not fish under the legislation. In this context, the undersigned has previously addressed the ‘Black List’ system for vessels engaged in illegal fishing, where we focus exclusively – that is to say exclusively – on the ship, that is, the ship and the history of the ship, and not on those who are the owners of the ship behind it. The reason for this is that they have said that it is very difficult to find the ownership of some of these boats. Then it is all the more important just to spend some resources on it, so that we can get rid of the illegal backers, who just switch between other ships, re-register ships, etc. Actually, we can't have it like that. These things must be persecuted. In this context, the Port State Control Agreement could also be used – precisely as regards the type of information flows we have between the individual nations ratifying the agreement. Now I do not know if there are enough nations that have signed the agreement. That is what I believe the Council of State will intervene in, because it is clear that the agreement does not mean anything unless a sufficient number of countries – and the important countries – ratify this agreement. It does not therefore hold that small nations, which are not even fishing nations, sign and ratify the agreement, unless the large, heavy fishing nations go ahead and sign it. That is how the agreement on port State control, and what we have adopted, could be effective. So I hope the Council of State can say a little about how many countries have ratified — not least which of the big, heavy and important fishing nations, next to Norway, which has ratified — and when this agreement will come into force. If at least I, as a representative of this assembly, do not feel that we have not been kept constantly informed about how things work that we have dealt with here – with almost a great deal of joy because we finally have an important instrument in place. But then we don't know if the agreement has been ratified, if it has entered into force. It is very important that we get an answer to this, and we expect to get an answer to that today. The next point I'm going to get into is the fight that's going on in these days. We have continued to try to establish a negotiated agreement between Norway, the EU, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands relating to mackerel. Here, it looks like you've been running up a corner. Iceland has set on its own initiative a quota for what they choose to extract, without deterring that these are common populations, as has been the case in the past, and without demarcating the extraction of biomass from the mackerel stock by other nations. Then it remains to be seen whether you come to an agreement. I have noticed last week – if it was not this week – the article in the FiskribladetFiskkaren that we have to take care of ourselves in these negotiations. On the Norwegian side, we must not be pressured to grant concessions to, among other things. Iceland, so there are Norwegian fishermen who have to pay the bill for what we see now. Here you have to use the possibilities you have. I expect further initiatives to be taken towards the EU, because the secret here is that we get the EU with us when it comes to imposing restrictions, among other things. landing. The EU itself has said that an assessment, and one looks at, ban the landing of mackerel. But that is as far as I have understood, not yet a regulation has been put in place. Here it is important that we play on the ground, because it is clear that, in relation to Iceland and Iceland's relationship with the EU, they are actually in negotiations on possible EU membership. If you get to that, it brings us new challenges. Therefore, it is important that this conflict finds its solution, so that we can get an optimal extraction of biomass related to the mackerel. The same is important for herring – not least in the spread of herring. The treks up in the Barents Sea show good populations of both cod and haze. I guess we've also seen that we have good seismic populations. But as far as coastal cod is concerned, there is a chapter with major challenges that we also need to find a solution. There are many fishermen down the coast who are just dependent on this population. Then we have to look at how we also take care of this in order to get profitability in the fishing. I am very happy that we have good populations. I am very pleased that we have a good cooperation with Russia. But it is quite obvious that you see challenges related to the Barents Sea, related to possible dumping of fish and how to deal with what you get on board the ships. I'm sure there'll be more challenges here. Let us all hope that the EU will make sense when it comes to dealing with the final fisheries policy – that they will go against a draft ban. Let us hope so, because many of the proposals that the EU itself has made – the EU, which is a very important partner for Norway in the fisheries policy – are very good. You take a step in the right direction. But the question is all the time: when will this agreement come into place, how will it be followed up by the individual nations, and how will this come about when we are going to start negotiating the stocks? Clearly, several of the countries with which we compete are struggling financially. They have great challenges related to unemployment, to make ends meet, to say the same. In this context, it is important to think that they will make maximum use of the resources available to them. Then it is important that in the exchange relationship between Norway and the EU – because we have a quota exchange system in each other’s waters – we focus on the fact that what we do is not in paper fish or in stocks where it is difficult to fish, but that there are real values we exchange. We have seen that from Norway we have retained a certain proportion of cod-related issues — including the EU in the last year. I think it is an important signal to send to Norwegian fishermen, that to the extent that we make these exchanges, it should be linked to the value and the ability to fish – not just to the values that are on the paper. It is easy to fish the Norwegian cod in the Barents Sea and other places, while it is very difficult to get some of the fish we get back. I've been into many themes, but what's the carrybar related to control, is what I've been going to get into in the end. Of course, this applies to the ability of the Coast Guard to carry out the checks necessary to safeguard Norwegian interests – but not just Norwegian interests – and to ensure that the extraction of the various stocks takes place in such a way that the stocks are not built down but that we get an optimal extraction. It is also important to implement these control measures at the same time as we have a significant research effort, just to look at: How strong are the individual classes of the year? What kind of fish is it that eats what fish? That's why it's important to do stomach tests, so that you can control the food chain of the fish, just to be able to put together optimal withdrawals of the different populations, because it's quite obvious that these populations eat each other, and then we have to have control of these things. I hope then that the Norwegian side will ensure that the Coast Guard receives the resources to which it is going, precisely to take good care of Norwegian interests – and not just in the north. It is also important that we intensify that control in the North Sea, just to ensure that, in particular in relation to pelagic fish in the case of herring and mackerel, there is control over how much fish is taken out and, if necessary, also how much fish that can actually die in the tail in the case of this industry. The Norwegian fishing industry is today on a good footing. We have a business that is characterised by good profitability in many areas, but parts of the industry also have considerable economic burdens. In this respect, I ask that we focus on these things, ensure that we have a maximum extraction of biomass, ensure that we have good control of what is being taken out, and give priority to these negotiations. My heartfelt appeal to the Council of State relating to the mackerel negotiations is as follows: Let's rather spend a little more time on the negotiations than giving in. Because if we give in and give back the opportunity to fish in Norwegian waters, to try to calm down and to get a quick deal, this could cause us to lose in the long run financially. So I ask the Council of State to be bold in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2046	For Norway, fishing agreements with other countries are of great importance. For one of our most important industries, it is absolutely essential that we be able to negotiate and manage a good contract work together with the nations with which we are going to cooperate. The fact that we are given an annual report to the Stortingen on this also shows that Parliament values the importance of this work. In fact, the fisheries agreements we have with other countries are the subject of a very separate notification, which is not all the other agreements we have with other countries. So this is an image that you see from Stortinget's side this as an important work. The message also shows that we are working very well on this. The results shown in the notification confirm that Norway is also one of the world’s leading countries in this field. Nevertheless, it is in its place to point out that this is a continuous work, and a work that is becoming more important and important in the future. Here I want to refer to the world's growing need for food and greater anticipated focus on the wealth of our oceans. Therefore, Norway’s participation in international commissions must be constantly assessed. In the opinion of the Right, it was right for the Norwegian dealers to indicate that a fishing ban for whales south of the equator could not be accepted. Management of marine mammals is one of the most difficult and fundamental issues facing Norway. There's no reason here to deviate from the principles we have. I repeat that right-wing support the marking the Norwegian dealers did in the International Whaling Commission. The rapporteur noted that there was a broad consensus in Stortinget when we dealt with the notification of marine mammals. I have to admit that there were also clear warnings from the Right and the Advance Party regarding the catch volume and intensity in relation to looking at it as a multi-stock management and regulating the amount of marine mammals. The fact that there is a broad consensus is correct, but it was a recommendation to the Council of State to ensure that this was properly managed. In the case of fish, the vast majority of the population estimates are very good. We work well with our cooperating countries in many areas. Then it is all the more important that we keep pressure on the areas that are problematic. The battle against mackerel in this Chamber has been dealt with thoroughly by this pulpit. The right agrees with the Progress Party and the representative of Nesvik in it. We also think there were good questions, and the Right looks with excitement up to the answers from the Council of State. From the Right, we're also going to shoot in that even though we like to say that the UUU fishing in the Barents Sea has stopped, that's not exactly right. Recent headlines in the media show that there is every reason to operate a strict control regime, and that there are probably actors who don't do everything after the book up there. The government should be commended for the good work it has done on this issue, but the image that this is an event from a past time will be wrong. It is also with concern that I heard the news on NRK Nordnytt on 10 November, where the First State Attorney at Troms, Lars Fause, is out and believes that the recently negotiated agreement between Norway and Russia regulates the draft issue in such a way that it is now impossible to provide evidence of fish dumping. I record in the same newsletter that the Council of State disagrees – fortunately, I would say – but I want to add that Lars Fause is actually one of our most experienced sizes in this area, and well worth listening to. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State to be extra awake here as well. The evidence base used by Norwegian traders when out making agreements with other countries is based on Norwegian marine life research, which is among the world's leading. Therefore, I would like to end by pointing out that it is also in the future that stock research is in place. It is also appropriate to use a lot of resources to carry out population research. It will be no less important, but more important in the future that we have good figures on the state of the sea – the state of our fish stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2069	The message we're handling today is history. It is interesting and instructive to review quota agreements, fisheries cooperation and regional management organisations. We get a good overview of the state of the population, different management plans and control cooperation with other countries. I just want to go into some of the points in the setting. I would like to start by saying that it is positive that Norway has good cooperation with Russia. It is very positive that we have strengthened control of the withdrawal and transhipment of fish in the Barents Sea, and that there is no record of overfishing or illegal fishing of cod. Efforts have also been made to exchange tracking data with Russia in order to maximise the transparency of the overall fishing activity. Then, as my predecessors have said, there is less joy in the disagreement between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands on the one hand and Norway and the EU on the other hand with regard to our common stocks of mackerel. Fishing around the Faroe Islands does not take into account the fact that this is a common stock but fishes on the basis of its own quotas. The parties do not agree on stock distribution and zone access. I brought this up with some representatives when I was an observer in the Western Nordic Council. They agreed that we should manage the stock in a sustainable way, but there was no understanding that they were fishing on a common stock. What was positive was that they wanted and thought the parties would agree. Then we'll see if it's still will when the parties meet again at the negotiating table. Here you have to have faith in what you do and be persevering. Six negotiations in 2010 that continued in 2011 without results show that one must have that will. Norway, together with the EU, must stick to its requirements, and it is also very important that the EU take this pressure on the disunity in the management of the mackerel in various negotiations with Iceland. Measures to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are important. I agree with the EU Commissioner for Fisheries, who says that these are criminal activities that have more consequences. It undermines the objective of sustainable management. It prevents fair competition in the fisheries markets and harms law-abiding fishermen. Having fished UUU is very important, and I therefore agree with the comment on the Right and the Advance Party. If we are to get 25 countries to ratify the agreement so that the agreement can enter into force, there must be greater pressure with possible sanctions against countries that choose not to ratify the agreement. In the fight against UUU fishing, satellite tracking of fishing vessels is important and that tracking data can be shared between different fishing nations also outside the EU must be an objective in the future. Finally, Norway is an important port, which contributes to providing leadership in fisheries matters beyond Norway’s borders. We have always done that, and that is why we have a great responsibility. Many look to Norway in our administration. It is therefore important that we continue to have the precautionary principle in different negotiation processes, as well as in our meeting with the International Resource Management Forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2082	Let me first of all thank you for the positive feedback on both the message and, as I see it, some of the government has done. Let me begin by saying that I fully agree with the Committee that it is worrying that we have not established a coastal state agreement on the management of mackerel. Then I register that a minority in the committee have asked questions about Norway's future in the IWC. Both of these points I'm going to come back to. It is a central objective of the government to base the management of wild marine resources on the principle of sustainable harvesting. This is central in all the fisheries negotiations we conduct with other countries and in regional fisheries management organisations. Measures against illegal fishing have been a priority for many years. We have achieved a lot, which I record that the committee agrees with. That is why I am happy to say that for the second consecutive year we have not registered illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. It shows that the measures work, and we will continue to prioritise this work over time. A direct result is that the cod in the Barents Sea is in very good condition. And then we're going to include that the temperature is enough on our side right now, the 2012 quota is at least 751,000 tons, an increase of 8 pst. from the quota of the year. Getting a coastal state agreement on mackerel is a demanding thing. The government has been very concerned about setting up an agreement, but it is nevertheless important — and I stress this — that Norway receives an acceptable share of the mackerel quota. To put it like this, we're not going to get an agreement that costs what it costs. So I don't want to wonder how long it takes to reach consensus. What I can assure the Storting that we have close and good dialogue with the European Union. Commissioner Damanaki was recently visiting Norway, and then the mackerel question was one of the main points of our conversations. We also have very close contact at the office level. We have developed closer cooperation with the EU over several years. In its proposal for a new fisheries policy, the EU has proposed to introduce a ban on discards over a period of three years from 2014. While we have a draft ban, the EU has had a draft directive. That is why, of course, we want to welcome the new EU draft policy. Then, from the Norwegian side, we will actively contribute to our dialogue with the EU Member States in order to contribute to knowledge of how a draft ban actually works. It's a part that's in doubt. We're going to tell them that. Then I have a good dialogue with my Swedish colleague and my Danish colleague, who I will meet tomorrow, who is also on the agenda. It's a theme that we address wherever it's possible. Exchanges between Norway and the EU have become more difficult to make. The reason for this is that there has been great growth in the cod quotas we offer the EU, while there are reductions in quotas that the EU has traditionally used as a means of payment for us. Negotiations with the EU for 2012 have not yet been concluded, so I cannot forge any results, but I have a close dialogue with the industry about the EU's quotas. The situation in the IWC is difficult. There is a clear need for international cooperation on whaling research and management. We will therefore continue to act responsibly and contribute to the normalisation of global cooperation. The position of Norway in the IWC is clear. We stand on a safe footing in international law and in science, and our whaling is on such a factual basis hardly controversial. For 2011, the government set a wave whale quota of 1286 animals and 533 whales were caught. In other words, well under half of the quota was taken. For Norway, in other words, the situation in the IWC is not an administrative problem in isolation. Finally, I would like to say that our main challenge today is that we lack a coastal state agreement on mackerel. Anyway, we have to do everything we can to get to a good solution. The next round of mackerel negotiations is in December this year. Then I can immediately try to answer the question of how many have ratified the port state agreement. Overall, there are only four yet, unfortunately, including the EU. Obama just sent it to the Senate. As I said, we need 25, so we need a lot of international work here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2112	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2115	I want to go a little further on this with port state control. If so far there are only four who have signed, it is remarkable that more countries have not been able to bring this about so that the agreement could be ratified. That's what I think is alarming. It was said that they had worked well internationally to get the agreement ready. Then my question is, well, how well do we work internationally to get the agreement ratified? That's the one question. My other question goes a little bit in the same direction, because it has to do with what types of information we're going to be able to exchange. Then my question is to the Council of State: to what extent will the Norwegian authorities work on the fact that it is not just a vessel and the part to be registered, but that you are also going for the backers? This is where the challenge lies, not on the ship. The vessel is only a tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2122	As for the number of ratifications and the number of signings: what I've been able to experience in a relatively short time, which I'm going to check when I get back to the department, is that there are a total of four that have ratified, including the EU, and as I said, Obama has just sent it to the Senate. What I was told is that it is 22 plus the EU that has signed. So here's a definition. You have to assume that those who have signed will also ratify. It's a logic. It's not always that politics and logic are the same, I'm going to be the first to admit, but at least, getting more people to ratify is quite obvious a job we still have. Then I think it is absolutely important that what the representative Nesvik refers to when it comes to the exchange of information. In Norway, we have put in place the analysis networks of the fisheries management. It's a model that I have great faith in, and that we also have to bring with us internationally, just to get the backers, because it's the ones that are interesting here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2132	Does the representative Nesvik want a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2136	Well, thank you. The Council of State itself was concerned about whaling and Norway's membership of the IWC, and the Council of State also showed that there was a relatively large gap between the quota set for whaling and the number of whales actually caught. Yeah, I'm not surprised at all. There was a problem that I raised with the Council of State relatively quickly after these quotas were set. It is precisely related to the area limitations — in which zones this whale can be caught. You got a limit on the catch in the zones where the whale was actually located, and then you had to get out of that zone to catch elsewhere, where the whale wasn't, because it had to do with agreements and divisions. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State – now that you have even put in place a DNA system connected to the whale, to see what kind of population it is – seize this and make sure you can catch everything in the same zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2148	The representative Nesvik is right that we've discussed this before. I've not least discussed it with the industry, just about this division into zones. I had a meeting with the industry before the season of the year, where they took up that question -- about being able to take more in the one zone where there is whale. It was opened for this year, but then with billing over several years. Again, keeping us safe within the framework of the IWC Agreement and that legislation is important to us for many reasons. But it is quite obvious that we have to view it as the prisoners and what many are addressing – there are several tribes, aren't they? – and find good solutions for the catch. I also want to say that one is the fishing side of it, but the other is probably just as demanding, and that's making people eat whale meat!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2157	I want to look at the new legislation, the agreement between Norway and Russia, in terms of fish dumping. First-State lawyer Lars Fause goes out and is very critical of the new agreement. He believes that it will be impossible to prove whether these are fish that have been dumped, whether there are fish that fall out of the trawl, or whether there are fish that have been thrown from the boat. The council says this is about fish that it's impossible to get on board, that fall off, or that's already broken. And dumping fish from on-board production will still be illegal for everyone," she says. To illustrate how difficult this can be: It is well that if the Council of State finds me lying next to the line, it may well – regardless of my condition – be problematic for the Council of State to answer immediately if I have been cancelled by the train, or if I jumped myself!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2164	The representative Bakke-Jensen is clearly right lately – I think that would be very difficult anyway. I hope it's a little easier in the Barents Sea for those who're going to do the job there. Spooky side: Of course, it's about getting a legisla­tion that has legitimacy, because in the fishing operation it's obvious that things can happen – fish can get stuck, it can fall off – so having a code that is 100 pst, and where there's no doubt, is also difficult for fishermen. That is why one came up with the new wording of the agreement with Russia. What's extremely important to say is that in the context of a jet hall, things can happen that make it acceptable, anything else will be forbidden. So I'm going to be honest and admit that it requires some adaptation, and therefore it's important that all actors, including the Coast Guard, sit down and discuss the new legislation and its enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2173	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of State for an excellent answer to my question about the law on port State control, especially relating to the importance of our going after the backers. It brings me to Norwegian conditions. It's strange that we're going to work for this internationally, while in Norway we're not going after it. In Norway, we have a blacklisting system, where we go after the vessels we take for illegal fishing. I have mentioned it earlier with the Council of State, where I have just pointed out that what is being controlled and recorded in the system of the Directorate is the name of the ship and the history of the ship, while you do not go after the owner, because you say it is so difficult to get hold of it. What you're saying is that some criminal acts are difficult to investigate, so we don't want to investigate them. We can't actually have it like that, because it's just giving ground to new crime. Therefore, my question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State at least review its own department and directorate to see how we can extend access to ensure that the history and ownership of the ship are recorded?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2182	Before responding, the President-in-Office of the Council of State Berg-Hansen will only draw attention to the fact that we are over the regulatory time of the morning meeting, but the Council of State will be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2185	Thank you for that, President. As I said in my previous reply, we have established the Fisheries Management Analysis Network. That's exactly where it's appropriate to look at the contexts. There we have the Police Directorate, we have Økokrim, we have the Customs and Fees Directorate, we have the Coast Guard, we have the Coast Guard – we have all the actors that have a role to play. Of course, finding out as much as possible about the backers will be enormously important. And what the report so far has shown is that here are some contexts that we have to go after. But in the area of fishing crime, as in all other crime, it is not to hide that it is difficult. But that doesn't mean we're not going to investigate this and use the tools that are possible to stop them. That is why I have great expectations for the job to be done further in the analytical network, precisely to get the means to both reveal and punish those behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2192	I will pursue the answer that the Council of State gave here. It was referred to the analytical network, and it is important to know how to do it. The Council of State is the top organ and the top boss of this field. In the case of ‘blacklisting’, there is something to be done and the list is there and it follows the ship. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State work to ensure that the backers, i.e. the ownership, which shall also enter this system, so that the rear-view mirror itself may be shaken in order to avoid the benefit of changing the vessel and putting a new vessel into the Norwegian zone which may continue fishing without risk of not being delivered? My question is, and I repeat, will the Council of State help us to get the backers, too, by registering them in addition to the ship's history?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2201	The answer to that is: yes, in the sense that if we know that it is possible to find them, it is perfectly obvious that we must say that we do not want them into either Norwegian or international fishing industry. But again, given the difficulties: I'm not going to say this is easy, there is no quick fix response, and I don't understand that's what the representative Nesvik says, but quite clearly: everything that can be done to stop this, of course we will try. But again: I'm a little humble for the task, in the sense that there are demanding boys – possibly girls – we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2206	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The budget is now interrupting its negotiations. [[Fotation, see page 644]] The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.05. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2225	The size continues the handling of the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2239	I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from a fully-consensual committee. The case concerns the repeal of the Hermetics Tax Act, the amendment of the Law on the Fee for Research and Development in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industries and the amendment of the Fish Export Act. In 2009, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs sent several changes in regulations on exports of fish and fish products on hearing. The hearing also included proposals to abolish the Hermetics Tax Act and to include goods covered by the Hermetics Tax Act into the R & D levy of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Research Fund. None of the hearing bodies objected to the termination of the hermetic tax laws. The Committee notes that the introduction of the R & D levy to the fishery and aquaculture industries has changed the application of the Hermetik tax law. The R & D fee is a holistic and transparent system by paying R & D fees for all exports of fish and fish products. A single committee therefore supports the proposal to repeal the Hermetics Tax Code. Today's legislation has established a consensus to decide on the Board of Fisheries and Aquaculture's research fund. In an evaluation, it was proposed to remove the consensus requirement. The proposal has been being heard, and none of the hearing authorities objected to the proposal. Other research funding schemes do not require consensus, and the consensus requirement can lead to low dynamics and low forward-looking use of research resources. For this reason, the Committee has been consulted in order to remove the requirement of consensus and to require only the usual majority of decisions of the Board of Fisheries and Aquaculture Research Fund. The fish export selection has a name that is no longer covering the activity of the organisation. Today’s work is mainly the joint marketing of Norwegian seafood and work on reputation related to Norwegian seafood. Therefore, it is natural to remove the word 'export selection' from the name. To this end, the Committee agrees with the proposal to change the name of the export selection for fish to the Norwegian Sea wire AS. I therefore propose a unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2272	After a long and thorough process, our public pension system has undergone major and necessary changes. The Minister of Finance knows that better than most. Hopefully, the changes will give rise to no doubt about Norway’s ability to bear the obligations. Security for the maintenance of quality of life as a pensioner is one of the fundamental prerequisites of a welfare society. Our standard of living is increasing, and the individual's expectation of what retirement age will bring will be individual. However, with a reasonable degree of certainty, the expectations of the standard and the freedom to travel and enjoy life will increase. With the conversions made in the public pension system, each person will have to take greater responsibility for his/her retirement time. It is likely that there will be no correlation between the benefits of the future and the expectations of the individual. The size has, among other things, underlined this by making the occupational pension compulsory from 1 January 2006. As a result, very many additional benefits are saved, whether through occupational retirement provision, individual pension insurance or by other means. That's a lot of money we're talking about here. The development of client funds related to pension benefits in Norwegian life companies is now more than 700 billion. kr when one includes the Free Police. It is therefore also extremely important to focus on the conditions under which life companies can manage this responsibility in an optimal way and contribute to putting the conditions in place for good governance. This harvest has thus been thought-provoking. It has been called through media debates – mainly the Business and Evening Post – to warn that life companies are at risk of falling short of changing the framework conditions. It is claimed that current legislation results in them not being able to optimise the long-term return on the savings of the customer and the future pensioner. From 2013 onwards, the plan is to introduce a new solvency code in Norway, based on rules under the EEA Agreement, called Solvency 2. The signals are also that the framework conditions for Norwegian occupational retirement products are to a small extent adapted to this. If these claims bring trueness, they are both serious and challenging. I take it for granted that the Minister of Finance agrees with that. This is a challenge that requires political focus, because the challenge lies at several levels. There is, in part, hurricane in the financial markets. Debt crisis, lack of confidence in the future and ability to create work and well-being in many countries in Europe are behind schedule. We discuss that quite regularly in Stortinget as well. Interest and debt securities markets have been in a declining trend of return over the last 20 years. At that time, the return on the interest market was about twice the guaranteed return of the companies. Despite the fact that the guaranteed return is lowered from 4 pst. up to 2.5 pst. today, the return on interest rates has fallen much more. Risk-free interest rates are today lower than the interest rate guarantee provided by life companies. It is reasonably obvious that a period of difficult, not to say extreme, low interest rates and falling stock markets poses major challenges for life companies and their customers. This results, among other things, in: as a result of leaving defined benefit agreements in the private sector and moving to defined contribution schemes, while reading in the newspapers about municipalities facing major budgetary challenges because they continue to adhere to defined benefit schemes. Whether this is right or wrong is not my desire to discuss, but it says a lot about what a challenge it is to create security around the future payment of pensions. Management of savings towards retirement is a long-term relationship of trust between company and customer. Even small changes in long-term return expectations give a large impact on the present value of the future amounts. A defined benefit contract is immediately reflected in an employer’s payment claim, while a defined contribution plan will require more savings from the individual future pensioner if he wishes to maintain the same post-employment benefit. The big difference is where the risk and responsibility for filling out missing amounts lies. In a defined benefit it lies with the employer, in a defined contribution by the employee. The payment requirements received by many municipalities to meet their pension obligations illustrate this very well. It will hardly be the same focus around the consequences for those with deposit-based schemes. They either need to lower their expectations or increase their payments, as the question is whether the framework conditions here follow developments. Today’s restrictions on deposits mean that defined contribution schemes will not be able to reach the level of defined contribution. Both Sweden and Denmark have much more liberal rules on this than Norway. For life companies, there is a misunderstanding between the annual guaranteed return and the long-termity contained in a pension savings agreement. The intention behind a guaranteed return is obviously good. Saving must be ensured. But can it be that the good becomes the best enemy? Annual return requirements that need to be met will result in a short-term focus in a long-term management. It's unfortunate. The buffer capital of the companies may not be used to cover negative returns for a year. This must therefore be covered by the company and the risk is very great for the company and its owner. It should be possible here to assess guarantees which are multiannual or which are aimed at the termination benefits agreed, so that companies do not panic about selling, among other things. shares resulting from the annual return requirement. These are large amounts, and non-optimal framework conditions can easily reinforce the market fluctuations you see. The Norwegian state is rich. It provides both security, freedom of action and joy, which is repeated quite often in this room. But for a long-term private savings market, such as pensions, it also presents challenges. Life companies need a long-term Norwegian bond market. Government bonds, although the euro crisis appears to be so doubtful about the truth of this theory, will be preferred, secure locations for long-term management of life companies. In Norway, these markets are very small because the borrowing needs of the State are low. It presents special challenges for companies, but is also something the Minister of Finance should focus on. How can we create a sufficient and long-term Norwegian bond market, so that companies find positions that are long-term in relation to the long-term nature of the savings contracts? The management of life companies has been compared by some in the media with the oil fund, because they operate with a much lower share in their portfolios than the oil fund. In addition, the mandate of the Oil Fund gives the opposite effects of what we see in life companies. The oil fund actively buys shares in bad times and disposes of them in good, while the life companies do the opposite. This should in itself be enough to focus on the framework conditions of companies. Of course, the oil fund and life companies are not fully comparable, because the intention behind the oil fund is that it should be an eternal national fund, while life companies manage a lot of individual contracts with different remaining maturity for individual customers. The desire for optimal risk profile will vary from customer to customer and will depend on age and time up to retirement age. Therefore, the focus on the management framework of life companies must be to provide the customer with an opportunity to choose a profile from the management that suits the individual, but within a framework of what long-term returns and risks can be guaranteed by the companies. The recent media debate may indicate that incentives are being created in this area too, which are not optimal in terms of long-term, good governance and returns. Pension savings are complicated and difficult. I know that the Banking Act Commission has been given the task of adapting occupational pensions to the basic principles of popular security, but my interpellation has a broader focus than I perceive this mandate has. There is a saving to create security, and changes to the framework conditions must of course be made with caution, but the recent debate, the crisis in Europe with very low yield levels as a result and the knowledge it gives us should lead to an assessment of changes. Will the State Council take the initiative to assess a longer-term definition of guaranteed returns, so that the guarantee is proportionate to the long-term nature of saving? Will the State Council take the initiative to create a larger and better bond market and will it facilitate a more flexible use of buffer capital and portfolio profiles to ensure optimal management of long-term supplementary pensions for customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2302	The legal objective of life insurance corporations and pension companies is to a large extent versatile, but an important objective is that we have solid and robust institutions, which help us to have a good financial market. This means that companies should be able to fulfil their obligations, often far into the future. That is why we need funding, capital management requirements, own funds requirements and public supervision. In addition, it is important that companies be able to cover at all times the claims or claims which customers have against the companies. On the other hand, the legislation shall take into account the desire to offer long-term and good returns to customers. And it's true, as the interpellant says, that low growth and low interest rates are now putting pressure on the company's ability to achieve good and promised returns. This applies both in Norway and in other countries. As also pointed out, the Act on compulsory occupational retirement provision was adopted in 2005. The law requires that one can offer one of the two types of occupational pension, post-employment pension or pension. Then there is also a contract for the management of a life insurance company or a pension enterprise – an agreement that can be designed in several ways. It is important to stress that there is no coercion of return guarantees in pension legislation. The company must decide for itself whether a certain return will be guaranteed, but once the company has entered into such an agreement, the promise must be kept in good and bad days, as it says. This means that the company's promise of a guaranteed return is a risk to the companies. This risk becomes, of course, more visible when interest rates fall. Currently, there is a yield guarantee for about 90 pst. of the total liabilities of life insurance corporations. Because there is a risk of long-term interest rate guarantees, the authorities have set a ceiling on the amount of that guarantee. It is the Financial Supervisory Authority that determines the amount of guaranteed interest that life companies can use in their contracts. Companies are free to choose a lower calculation rate than the maximum interest rate in their contracts. But the experience so far is that there are few cases where companies have set themselves at a different limit than the maximum permitted limit. The reason for this is that the lower the return on life companies guarantees to get on the plan assets, for example. in a defined benefit pension, the higher the contribution the employer has to pay each year to ensure that the pension benefit is provided when the employee reaches the retirement age. So it's right, as the interpellant also said, that one has now reduced the ceiling, and from 1 January 2012 it's 2.5 pst. for occupational retirement provision. Once the companies have promised a guaranteed return, the legislation requires an annual fulfillment of the return in the form that companies allocate sufficient funds to cover the guarantee. This means that you have promised the customer an annual return of 3 pst., the customer's return should increase by at least 3 pst. every year. The reason why it is such a rule is that it should be possible to cover at all times the plan assets promised by the customer on the part of the company, that if customers wish to move an insurance, it should be possible to exercise it without receiving an additional payment bill to cover the loss or promised return, that the assumptions for future returns on plan assets are not too optimistic and that pension funds do not disappear as a result of the fall of the market or as a result of the termination of the employer, for example. in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation. To the extent that life companies assume a risk of fulfilling an annual interest rate guarantee, companies for occupational retirement provision have the opportunity to levy a separate annual premium on the interest rate guarantee. This was an important innovation in the new rules of operation introduced from 2008. This premium shall reflect the risk that the management of the capital of the company gives a return at least equal to the return promised by the company to its customers. Of course, the risk of the company will vary according to the size of the guarantee, how the company has invested in its portfolio and the buffer capital available to the company. This is mainly a matter over which the company itself has control. Companies have a large number of free policies, in which they have guaranteed a return on pension capital, and where they do not have the opportunity to claim such a premium because the free policies have been fully paid by customers. So here the companies have been paid for the commitment they have made. Then it is right to say that both life insurance corporations and pensioners should have a sensible investment strategy. It must be valid both during set-aside and during set-aside times. We often hear in times of recession that the regulatory requirement for annual compliance with interest rate guarantees forces the company to become too short-sighted a horizon for investment. It's a debate that comes up at regular intervals, and with which I'm not unknown. When things go well, we hear little about this. It is also important to stress that there is a responsibility on the part of companies to adjust the relationship between soundness and the risk they choose to assume. As mentioned above, it is important that life insurance corporations and pensioners have a sound investment strategy. Following the adoption by the Storting of new legislation on covered bonds in the spring of 2007, banks and credit companies have developed the offer of preferential bonds, so-called OMFs. In my opinion, it is – and should be – possible for the industry to further develop this market, so that OMFs become a more interesting investment object for pension providers. We have recently established rules on capital management in insurance by the Ministry of Finance. The new rules open to so-called infrastructure investments to a greater extent than before. This was a clear wish from the industry. But it is also true that investments in companies that own or operate physical infrastructure can also be an alternative to covering long-term obligations towards customers and contribute to the long-term and stable management of client funds. As the interpellant pointed out, the Banking Law Commission has been mandated to seek out a new pension product that has been better adapted to modernised public welfare than the traditional performance-based products under the Entrepreneurship Act. The Banking Law Commission has both good experience and is well aware of the challenges that life companies face in today's market and that the representative Gundersen addresses in his interpellation. When the Banking Commission is now preparing proposals for a new pension product, there are many issues to try to address: continued good customer security, consideration of the treatment of the pension scheme in the accounts of the employer enterprise, appropriate adaptation to the new solvency rules for insurance companies – Solvency II – the possibility of transition between current schemes and new schemes, etc. This is an investigative work that makes great demands professionally. But once again, I would like to stress that even if a person comes to pension products that are better adapted to the pension reform, the risk is not gone. Therefore, a core issue will be to assess who is to bear the risk, pay for the risk and make the decisions that result in the level at which the risk is to be risked. But I trust that the Banking Law Commission with the broad competence it has will provide the basis for the best solutions and find good and agreed solutions. I am concerned that current and future legislation will facilitate long-term and good returns for customers. At the same time, the legislation should contribute to solid and good companies. This is important in order to keep the promises made to customers, and therefore also for the confidence that customers should have in the insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2338	I think we can agree on that conclusion. There must be security around the management of such funds, and good governance should be provided. I thank the Council of State for a very good review of the market, and we can also agree that the risk in this is never going to go away, no matter what you do from the authorities. Clearly, low interest rates increase fluctuations in present value even if there are slight fluctuations in interest rates. It is quite natural that you may not hear so much from the companies when things go well, because then the obligations are not a problem either. It's in downtime you'll hear about this. One of my questions was, among other things: if you couldn't look at this a little bit with buffer capital, and because we have an annual demand for returns, if you couldn't solve a little bit about the use of buffer capital, because I think that buffer capital is typically built up in good times. I hope we can get a comment on that a little later in the debate. What's a reasonable investment strategy, it's not that easy to say anything about. We can agree on that, too. But I notice that the management of the oil fund and a lot of the practical adjustment you see out there with many of the companies are very different, and then you can't quite ignore the fact that the mandate of the oil fund is quite different from the framework that you give to the life insurance companies. Some of my main points are the problem that an annual return claim sets, when you have such a long-term profile of your investments as life companies have. It has to be a contradiction and can quickly lead to too short-sighted horizons in much of what you do. That is why one of the questions about going into a discussion about more guaranteeing the value of each pensioner's contract, and not having an annual return claim, was also one of the questions. But this is a difficult topic. It'll hardly ever be everyone's life. But I think there's a lot of money we're talking about here. There are many people who are dependent on companies fulfilling their obligations, and I think we should continue to have a continuous focus on the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2349	I think we can quickly agree that this is a difficult and sometimes a somewhat technical complex issue, but it is an area where the Ministry of Finance is very concerned – for several reasons. First of all, we're concerned about it because these companies manage so much of people's savings. They shall manage the savings over a long period of time, and then an attempt must be made to find the right balance between having solid and robust companies on the one hand and being able to rely on the companies on the other. I want to use my time to comment on two questions. It is today that the regulatory framework is flexible. One is the maximum rate of return, where it is possible to set a lower limit than the maximum level. At the same time, it is also possible that you can have five-year and not annual returns, i.e. that you can see it for a longer period of time. So the customer also has a right to move. If you are not satisfied with the company you have, you can move the insurance. It must be weighed against the fact that the company also has reserves, so that the right of movement becomes effective. But what is the situation today is that the possibility of having the flexibility over several years, which is in the regulation, is actually very little used. You can wonder why. The second question concerns additional provisions. Additional provisions are buffer capital that may be deducted from any surplus of income in each year. Additional provisions may be used to cover non-returns in a year when guaranteed returns are not achieved. The return profit would otherwise fall to the customer and the contract. In this way, customers contribute to the build-up of buffer capital in the companies. The industry has arranged on various occasions for additional provisions to be used to cover so-called non-return or negative returns, i.e. when the yield is less than zero in each year. It is such that when the Stortinge dealt with this issue in the draft law for new life insurance rules in 2004, Stortinget concluded that it should not be included in the law. I agree, because additional provisions are also the client's funds, and it should be such that if the return is below zero, it should primarily go against the company's own funds. There is this balance between security for the customer on the one hand and the need to have solid and robust companies on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2360	The representative, Gundersen, once again addresses an interesting and important issue and contributes to increased knowledge and interest in a field. Gundersen must have all the credit for that. I fully agree with his views on the prospects of future pensioners for their own retirement life and the economy of the future. That gives us some challenges. Life insurance and the pension fund are part of the future security of the North. It is therefore essential that the companies managing these funds be sound and able to discharge their obligations towards their clients. We cannot sit in such a situation that we risk not being able to pay the customer's funds. Therefore, safety requirements must be strict. As Gundersen’s representative correctly points out, today’s international economic situation is demanding and poses challenges in terms of risk and expected returns. This applies to life insurance corporations and pension funds as well as to other financial investors. However, today’s legislation takes into account some of this unrest, as the Minister of Finance described, among other things. there is a ceiling on the level of return that companies can promise. When we see that most companies choose to invest in this upper limit, we have to assume that the companies have also taken this into account in assessing the market risk and have assessed that they are still able to keep the promise of guaranteed returns. In addition, companies and customers have the opportunity to agree on a five-year return guarantee, giving them greater opportunities to adapt to the market situation. The customer also has the option to choose his/her own composition and risk profile, both within the performance-based and risk-based pensions. However, there should be good knowledge of the risks and expected returns. There are enough examples of savings products that are of great complexity, where customers have lost their savings. When it comes to pensions and life assurance, it is so important for people's safety that we need to be extra aware of providing a regulatory framework that ensures a high level of security for customers. One of the most important steps that companies can take is to ensure that they have sufficient capital so that they do not have to sell out during the expected short-term economic downturns. It's about saving money in good times to be better rusted in times of recession, just as we in Norway put the majority of oil revenues in good times to meet the worse days. This can be done, for example, through additional provisions in good years. If one is able to avoid having to sell on short term ‘dips’ in the stock market, the companies and customers will also benefit. The financial industry has wanted to expand its access to investment in new areas which they consider could ensure the long-term commitments of the industry better than they do at present. Infrastructure investments have been highlighted as such. With effect from January this year, it was possible to place customer funds in infrastructure. However, in the light of the general rules of the insurance business law on the nature of an insurance company's business, it is difficult to obtain authorisation to invest large amounts of money in such projects. I am pleased that the legislation is as strict as it is, although I see the industry's need to place funds in new areas, where you have faith in good and long-term returns. It is in everyone's interest that the companies we talk about are doing well – both the companies themselves, the customers and the state. You can't expect the state to step in and guarantee the deposits of the private companies. At the same time, customers should feel safe on their deposits. Then it is important to have legislation that provides for a reasonable investment profile with moderate risk and sufficient capital base in companies. Finally, I would like to refer to the Swedish Financial Crisis Committee and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s observations in the field of life insurance and pension schemes. The assessments have been submitted to the Banking Law Commission, as we have heard earlier this evening, for further investigation. I attend this investigation. I also think the Minister of Finance gave a detailed and good account to the interpellant, who should again be commended for addressing a current issue in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2377	I want to join in the range of those who boast that the representative Gundersen is addressing an important and difficult topic. At the same time, there is a debate that needs to be taken. It's all about the pensioners, who have based their future and their savings on these products. We cannot see that these funds are being lost in the future. Interpellant Gunnar Gundersen also pointed out in the debate that life insurance corporations and pension funds shall have annual and long-term guaranteed returns for pensioners and savers. It is a good intention, but as the international market has developed, it can lead to higher pension costs for the enterprise and lower pensions for the customers. Many media have pointed out the risk that life companies may end up. It is a warning that you should take a closer look at the framework. I support the representative of Gundersen in his initiative to review the framework, so that companies and customers can be secured in the future, and that a long-term return can be created. In such a review, a look at the framework should also be made in our neighbouring countries and in other countries where it is natural to look at and on which portfolio companies have the opportunity to have. Of course, such a review must not lead to higher risks. Although it is of course the companies that bear the risk, it is important to ensure that customers have a sustainable pension. Several companies are looking at the possibility of getting more involved in real investment. There have also been several mentions here. Then I think about infrastructure like gas line, line network, etc. – secure investments with long-term fixed returns. I hope that the Council of State will look at these matters further in the future and include them in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2392	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant, Gunnar Gundersen, for addressing a good subject, which I believe is being too little discussed in Stortinget, namely how the rules we have made affect both payments, payments and not least the possibilities for Norwegian municipalities to plan. In my contribution, I want to focus on the challenges that local authorities are now facing. The estimates made by KLP for the Municipal Report show that accounting pension costs will increase by 25-30 pst. until 2014. This means that pension costs in Norway are increasing more than twice as fast as compensation of employees. I would like to challenge the Council of State and ask him to include this in his calculations for the transfers to the municipalities. This could in the long term challenge the performance-based model in the public sector, perhaps earlier than the government and the parties themselves submit to an evaluation in 2017. It is not a question of whether this will affect other services to the population, but of how much. According to the Municipal Report of 22 September this year, it appears that, for example: In Rogaland, the municipality receives an increased pension premium of 43 pst, and their premium deviation increases by 600 pst. In the municipality of Gjøvik, which has a similar situation, the pension bill is expected to increase by 50 p.m., according to a survey in the economic life of today. Chief executive in KLP, Roar Engen, says to Kommunal Report that the company expects an average municipality to pay 26 pst. higher premium next year. The figures are actually similar regardless of the municipality's pension provider. Transferred to the whole local government sector, this means that next year's pension contributions increase by between 6 and 10 billion. kr. Since the Financial Supervisory Authority demanded that guaranteed interest be set at 2,5 p.m., it alone has resulted in an increase in premiums of 10 p.m. So the pension premium is how much money the municipality pays to the pension corporations each year, to set aside money for future pension payments. Then comes the regulatory premium, which the municipalities have to pay at the top of the ordinary premium. The government budget's expectation of 4 pst. Wage growth is not only a major challenge for the Norwegian export industry but also a major challenge for Norwegian municipalities – and an increase in pension costs. The pension cost is the amount recorded in the accounts, but it is in practice a relatively notional amount that has nothing to do with what the municipality pays in pension contributions. The aim has been to ensure that pension costs are fairly even from year to year, through the so-called premium deviation. By 2010 the premium deviation was about 20 billion. kr. I have seen forecasts now that the 2011 premium deviation is 23 billion. kr, while KS fears it may increase to 35 billion. NOK before the municipalities actually start paying off the amount. This is quite serious for Norwegian municipalities, because money is removed from the operating accounts for the year of the deviation and is hidden in the balance sheet. Instead, it is recorded in the operating accounts in the years to come. So while the accounts look great in the first year, it gets worse in the future. And so far, the premium deviation in Norwegian municipalities has increased and increased, so there will be a new record in 2012. If the individual cases documented by the Municipal Report are representative of the rest of Norway, then up to 7 billion. kr in pension expenditure does not appear in the accounts for 2012 and it should concern the Minister of Finance, the Financial Committee and the Storting. The total premium deviation is expected to be over 30 billion. kr, or close to 10 pst. the turnover of Norwegian municipalities. The Ministry of Local Affairs has announced that it is estimated to reduce the number of years from 15 to 10 and pay everything back again, but what is happening is that very many municipalities are pushing huge bills in front of them without adjusting their operations along the way. I believe that this is an area the Financial Committee must have a major focus on in the future – and the government needs to have it. The system must obviously be simplified in the future. The Head of Economics of Åmote Municipality, who is not of the largest municipalities in the country, says the following about Kommune-Norway: ‘It is unfortunate that complex theoretical solutions are difficult to understand for politicians and the administration.’ This can have enormous consequences. A system is created that sends the bill to elected representatives in the next period, to others in the municipality, and exposes the problem. This is suspicious and a scheme that no one has earned in the long term. I think the Minister of Finance has to look at the arrangements with the accounts for premium deviations, in addition to the general discussion we are getting now, about the future's defined benefit pensions and the level of defined contribution pensions in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2431	Security is important to all of us. Security and economic security are of particular importance for pensioners. I would first like to stress that what must be the most important security is the fear of the people. It is the pension for which the public has a special responsibility. I would like to stress the need to have sound rules for popular security, so that there can be a proper arrangement for ordinary people at their retirement age. I don't think I've come up with that very much here. Many of us want security beyond that, and many then choose to have a security related to private pensions and life insurance, and as it is said, today's economic situation causes major challenges in the future. It is also an option for young people to think about their older days that a person can simply save in values other than financial papers — one can save in real terms, one can save in houses and homes or in farms and land, as it is called out in the countryside. I will not fail to say this from the Great Council. There are still some people who have great respect for that way of saving. And honor them for it! What the interpellant is dealing with is a demanding technical code, and I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding what is really the interpellant's proposal for a solution. One does not ask for more government money, but rules that better get money from someone. This is coming up at a time when international financial capitalism is in crisis. It's low growth, low interest rates, and there's a great risk of loss. The history of this speculative capitalism is the history of crisis and bankruptcy. So we are in a much more demanding situation than what is described. We are therefore in a situation where pension savings – which I agree with the interpellant must be long-term and which are difficult in those times – become more focused, and I am very pleased that we have now got «long-term» into a concept. That's a good word. It is a word that hears carefully together with the security of future generations. Earlier, when capitalism and financial capitalism were at their height, there was very little talk of long-termity. It was about short-term profit. After periods of short-term profit, there is a downturn. That's what history shows. What is the issue now is a placement of large values placed by people most in life insurance companies and in other schemes, and there are questions about how one then should ensure both a reasonable return and what most now see as the most important, namely security of placements. There's much greater emphasis on security, and I'm very happy about it. I just want to end by saying that what should really be at the heart of this issue now is the real economy – it's the focus on the real economy. Thus, the State can facilitate more robust and more forward-looking production life and real economy in Norway, so that those who sit as managers of these plan assets can find good investment objects in the ordinary private business. There is currently a major weakness, because there are too few investment objects in the ordinary, private business – the productive business. When there's too few there, the focus comes naturally on whether one can't then invest in objects that it was previously natural to see that the state and the public should own. The centre party does not see it as natural that companies here should be more involved in whether it is in power plants, in roads, in school buildings, in hospitals or what is there. It's a public problem. Private pension insurance must primarily be placed within an offensive private business that provides framework conditions from this room so that one can make money in an ordinary, long-term manner. Here we have a destiny between the managers of the capital and those of us who are recipients of paid pensions – that we are facilitating better real economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2452	Thank you for the debate. It is not difficult to agree with the last representative, Lundteigen, that the focus should be on the real economy and address the underlying challenges. It's essentially saying itself. That's where the solution lies, so we can agree on that. I don't think you have to come up with solutions to all the problems in order to get an interpellation. I have realized that there is a call for help out there. If the problems in the real economy – as Lundtigen likes to talk about – are as big as you can smell, I think we've only seen the beginning of the challenges these companies face, unfortunately. There have been some rather dramatic headlines, among other things. Today's Business. It started with pension funds, it was ‘Pensions in Crisis’, and the Financial Supervisory Authority believes that the owners have to turn up. This – which I was in for – is about large amounts. There may be heavy burdens on both the companies and the owners, and there may be doubts about pensions, because there we all agree. There must be no doubt as to the sound management and return of those pensions at last. That's where I see everyone's in complete agreement. I don't have solutions to these questions. But as I said, I realized that there was a call for help out there, and would really raise the question to make sure that the Minister of Finance has a dialogue with the industry and has an open mind to find solutions to a challenge that I think is quite big, and that is quite important to people. In conclusion, I would also like to say that I appreciate the openness with which I felt the Council met the question, especially the three-minute insert as a comment. It's always very fun to have interpellations with the Minister of Finance, because I think you'll be met with an openness around the challenges being addressed. I'm really taking it as a sign that maybe it's the Hedmark dialect that's going through, and that there's going to be a good dialogue around it. But, as I said, I hope that the Minister of Finance has an active dialogue with the industry, because it is primarily between the professional bureaucracy and the professional apparatus in the Ministry of Finance and the industry that the good solutions must be found. I feel that the Storting is very much in agreement with the intentions behind how such funds should be managed, and thank you really only for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2469	I want to return the thank you, for this is, as I said before, an important discussion that we are going to continue in the future. I should just like to comment on three points. One is what Svendsen's representative raised, i.e. investments in infrastructure. That's a new opportunity, and of course we'll also see if there's any way to develop that investment opportunity. So far we have had one application. We have approved it, but we reduced the ownership share somewhat in relation to what the company wanted. It was in order to bring it into line with the legislation of the Insurance Business Act. But it's an interesting area that an absolute should work on in the future. The second was that of the representative, Mr. Kambe. Yes, I am aware of the challenges facing the local government sector in terms of pension costs. In a sense, the local government sector may now be some of the first to feel the impact of the financial crisis and the turmoil we see in Europe. This is a combination of low interest rates, but of course it also has a bearing on wage growth in general. In the case of an estimate of earnings in the national budget, it is an estimate. The fasite of what the salary growth is, we get to spring when the payroll is over, and we can get back to that on Thursday. The last thing I want to mention is the relationship with the Solvency II Code. There is an EEA-relevant legislation to be introduced in the coming years. The timetable here is a little bit uncertain, but a reasonable tip will be in 2014. It means that there is some time before it is to be introduced. One of the important questions in that context is how to assess those obligations. The legislation now in place in Europe means that a commitment to a market value is to be determined, while a key principle of valuation is now to be established. This means that if you move to a market value principle, it will become more sensitive to interest rate changes. The industry has asked for a meeting with the Minister of Finance. That meeting they will get as soon as it is practical, and I stress that they will have such a meeting, because then we can discuss and also address the questions that the industry is concerned about. In addition to that, I want to do what I can to have a good conversation with the Stortinget, with the Financial Committee and key actors in the Stortinget, so that we can jointly develop a good code that stands through changing times, and that can take into account the more fundamental things that the interpellant also addressed. It's important for me to say that, because here we depend on getting good solutions together – and I'll try as hard as I can to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2485	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2501	Absence in secondary education is not a new phenomenon. But the new thing is that the consequences for those who fall out are becoming more dramatic as the skills requirements in the labour market are strengthened in all professions. Over the years, different measures have been put in place to prevent dropouts from leaving school for good and end up without completed education and documented competence. The establishment of the follow-up service is one such measure. The new GIV measures are another example of non-response prevention. Behind the rather gloomy dropouts there are many youths hiding. Most difficult is the situation in Finnmark, where the distances to secondary schools in the county may be longer than between parts of the country further south — and where the alternative offers are not necessarily in line. That is the reality that the state politicians in Finnmark are fighting when they want to fight against apostasy. At the same time, it is a major challenge that the cause of non-response is often far beyond the reach of state policies. Too many students have not received a training offer that has helped them mastering professional and social skills and provide them with the skills they need to be able to participate in higher education. It's about the knowledgeal ballast that the students bring with them from primary school. Students who are struggling with abstinence and mental health problems belong to another risk group that requires additional organisation and a school health service that can assist with relief measures that enable the student to complete secondary education. We have recently addressed the call for proposals for special education where one of the main strategies is ‘capture and follow-up’ and strong emphasis on early interventions. If we want to prevent non-response, it is extremely important that higher education has the skills to address problems from the first day. Students who start in higher education without being prepared and motivated are of little benefit. In the Right’s view, it is then all the more important that the school has the necessary room to cope with that situation and to be able to follow closely to get these young people on the right course. The advisory service has become the focus. Many young people seem to be given unrealistic advice as to which educational and professional choices can be right for them. It is serious if young people are unloaded on educational pathways, it is very likely that they will not master — and where the consequence can be drop-out. I have pointed out several different aspects that affect students' ability and ability to participate in education beyond primary school. Norway is not alone in high rates of non-response in secondary education. Worst thing about us is the situation in the professions and for students who don't get the apprenticeship they saw when they started the education. Here many give up, and it might be understandable if they are referred to an alternative they do not perceive as relevant and adapted. It is at this critical stage that the follow-up service comes in, or has to come in. The service shall follow students in secondary education who are not in training or work. You can read about the follow-up service on the Ministry's own websites: ‘The aim of the follow-up service is to ensure that all young people belonging to the target group 1 are offered training, work or other employment. Offers provided through the follow-up service shall primarily aim at providing study competence, professional competence or lower-level competence in higher education. It is stipulated that the follow-up service shall ensure cross-border cooperation between municipal, county and state bodies responsible for the target population and shall communicate, where appropriate co-ordinated, offers from different bodies. The follow-up service shall have a coordinating function but shall not assume the tasks of other departments.’;» This is entirely in agreement with the Right. However, the description of the follow-up service does not end with this, as the department also recognises weaknesses in the system. I quote: ‘A large number of young people are neither in secondary education nor work. They do not currently receive sufficient follow-up and assistance. Annual reports from county municipalities show that the follow-up service is unable to come into contact with, and therefore lacks an overview of, about 1/3 of the 30,000 young people who make up the target population of the OT. It is therefore unclear how many young people actually need follow-up and assistance. Young people outside school and/or work are often in a difficult situation. It is therefore important that the follow-up from the OT and NAV be seen in conjunction with the other municipal and county services.» It is positive that, as part of the New GIV work, the government has entered into partnerships with the county municipalities in order to get more on the offensive against students who fall out of secondary education. But the partnership itself is a way of working and alone no guarantee that the follow-up service works well enough to meet the individual. Each of the young people who end up in waste statistics has their own history and must be helped out of it. It requires close and coordinated cooperation between county councils, municipalities and Nav – and where the parties have to avoid ending up in a black-and-white game. Norwegian society needs highly skilled labour at all levels. The importance of helping young people to stay on their legs, building their education stone on stone and getting to work cannot be stressed enough. There is little doubt that the follow-up service has a difficult job of tracking young people who have turned their backs on the school. However, the fact that the task is demanding cannot be surprising, and the follow-up service is also staffed with interdisciplinary competence in order to meet the challenges facing the service. As I have said before, there is a lack of follow-up service for young people. Among these 15- to 21-year-olds, we find young people who fail to apply for admission to higher education, young people who are applying but who for some reason do not accept school or apprenticeships, young people who have not come into permanent employment, and, last but not least, students and apprentices who quit during the school year. It is the county that has the primary responsibility for the follow-up service. However, close cooperation with other bodies responsible for youth provision is a clear prerequisite for success. Prevention of non-compliance requires close cooperation between advisers in secondary school, advisers in secondary education, the PP service, the follow-up service in the county municipality and Nav. All good forces need to be mobilised in order to maximise the effectiveness and effectiveness of assistance and the organisation of the youth concerned. We hear many stories about very conscientious staff in the OT who travel to the youth and wake them up, pick them up and get them to school or to other alternative activity and training services. Many, therefore, undoubtedly make a great effort to get these young people back on track — they go almost beyond what you can demand. One of the ideas behind the follow-up service is that it should act in an outreach manner. At the same time, young people should know that they can contact themselves if they have problems. The service’s mandate is to assist in providing advice and guidance on educational and professional choices, providing training, practical space or work, or a combination of training in schools and workplaces in the enterprise. In the opinion of the Right, flexible and tailor-made solutions to young people who have fallen away are crucial if we are to achieve goals and succeed. Few would dispute the need for follow-up services. Therefore, it is also very important that the service functions and is best placed to perform its tasks. When there is now a call for warnings from several actors independently, there is reason to take it seriously. According to reports from county councils, over 9 000 young people under the age of 21 are not followed up on a national basis. At the same time, the Ministry of Knowledge points out major differences between states. If the system is not able to capture these young people, we can talk about a double non-response problem: first, these young people fall out of training, and then they miss out on the follow-up service. We have to do something about that. A recent SINTEF evaluation report has highlighted a different trend in the follow-up service. In 2004, there were 60 pst. of the counties' own offers to youth as dropped out of secondary school. In 2009, only 36 pst. its own offers, with the consequences it may have. The researchers believe that the follow-up service does what they should in getting in touch with young people, but conclude that the resources they have to spend on young people are marginal. That some counties succeed better than others is explained, among other things. with well-developed cooperation with business and the easy access of young people who need it, the place of practice in the enterprise. When the follow-up service itself does not have an offer, it is essential that the cooperation with Nav works. Here the researchers are clear that this cooperation is not as good in all states. They describe Nav as a self-service enterprise, where in many cases it is up to young people to gain a place of practice. Success in the follow-up service usually requires cooperation with others. The Sintef researchers problem that the follow-up service is short because there are others with the tools, whether we are talking about the county council or Nav. The right now asks and therefore challenges the Minister of Knowledge what she and the government will do to enable the follow-up service to do an even better job in this field. How can we achieve even better interactions between OT and Nav — when school services are not the solution, and Nav has offers that could be of great value to these young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2584	This is an interpellation that I'm very happy to get, because it gives me a unique opportunity to brief the Storting on an important part of what we're doing, the New GIV, to make sure that as many young people as possible complete higher education. On 17 February 2009, the VG had a full page: ‘10,000 young people are unknown’. Since then, we have launched a clearly committed plan to find these young people. In the target population 15–21 years of age, approximately 25 000 young people we didn't know where was a year ago. Now that share is more than halved to less than 5,000. We've found 5,000 young people in a year. I believe the follow-up service in the states has done a great job. This is one of the pillars of our efforts, the New GIV, to ensure that we are just able to follow up on young people and make sure that as much as possible through higher education. The new GIV is a collaboration between the government, all municipalities and the municipality of Oslo. This partnership is precisely about increasing implementation in higher education. The part of the partnership that strengthens the follow-up of those outside school or work is called the Follow-up Project. This is a three-year project to strengthen cooperation between schools, follow-up services, vocational training and Nav. Youth outside shall be re-motivated for secondary or regular work. For some young people, the way to do so can be through participation in practical training courses. If full competence at secondary level is not a realistic objective, the intermediate objective shall be the planned basic competence. Here are the training courses of the Apprenticeship Scheme or the Test Scheme with letters of practice. The latter has well documented results. I'll come back to it. A shorter practice-based training course is not an end-station. There's a building block on the way to full competence. This is the most important measure we can put in place for too many of the young people who currently make up the target group in the follow-up service. The 2010 SINTEF report, to which the representative refers, tells of a follow-up service that is differently organised and differently manned around the counties. We have examples in the statistics indicating a direct link between the number of employees in the follow-up service and the results of the work done by the follow-up service. For example, there are large differences in OT statistics between the counties, despite comparable geography, living conditions, student base and non-response. From the statistics we see examples that one state has three times as many OT staff as another, which may explain why one state has ten times more unknown and far fewer measures than the other. The first county has invested in a follow-up service that has enough hands to do the job. We have examples of states that have a full overview of their youth. For example, Uppland County has no unknowns. There is a very good and systematic effort to have an overview of both the target population and the follow-up work. Abroad has also established procedures for early follow-up when a student is about to leave. It's a very crucial move. We also see large differences between cities and countries, between gender and age groups. It's more difficult to have an overview in cities than in cities. That's 55 pst. The target boys and the target people in the OT are those who have completed primary school and up to and including the year they reach the age of 21 and are not in training or work, which I was in. We see that the group increases to a level of up to 20 years and then decreases by 21st year olds. It's e.g. twice as many 19-year-olds as 16-year-olds in the 15- to 21-year-olds group. Through the follow-up project, we are now strengthening the county follow-up service and cooperation with Nav, both at state level, state level and local level. The overall objective of the follow-up project is to increase implementation in higher education. It is necessary to establish better functioning systems for the coordinated follow-up of young people outside training and work. Follow-up must be based on structured and targeted cooperation on the and holistic use of societal instruments. Some young people are registered in the follow-up service for a short time, then to return to higher education or to other useful activities. Others need considerable close and long-term follow-up. For example, 4 pst is. by all students out of the 10th grade, in neither training nor work year after. Of those starting at Vg1, 8-10 is pst. neither in training nor in work the following year. The risk of young people staying out of work and training increases with the time when young people are outside. The follow-up service shall, of course, follow the whole target population, but the most at risk in the target population shall be given the highest priority. One of the premises of the follow-up project is that county municipalities will organise the project in conjunction with already established and well-functioning measures. New GIV shall contribute to the continuation of the best in the county as part of the state's overall project participation in New GIV. The county councils are part of the responsibility of the New GIV partnership to develop good models for practical organised secondary education. The follow-up project has three national priorities: training models combining work practices with curriculum objectives early on with multidisciplinary follow-up skills enhancement for the follow-up service; To point 1: The secondary schools and vocational training of counties shall cooperate with training offices and enterprises in order to make use of planned basic competences through schemes such as letters of practice and the apprenticeship system. The follow-up service shall cooperate with Nav in order to ensure quality assurance that the work-oriented actions have training elements derived from the programme area relevant to the motivation and qualification of the action in order to obtain regular work or return to secondary education. To point 2: The project now establishes systematic cooperation relations between schools, follow-up services and hubs for clarification, guidance, action testing and follow-up of non-training and work youth. Schools shall facilitate the early involvement of the follow-up service by conducting clarification talks and signing follow-up talks in cooperation with the follow-up service and other bodies prior to formal school leaving. To point 3: This autumn, the Directorate of Education has cooperated with the county councils and trade unions and developed a joint course offer for staff in the follow-up service and Nav. We have had 500 employees in the follow-up service and Nav in a joint course collection to strengthen cooperation on the follow-up project and further develop the cooperation structures. It should cover about everyone who works with follow-up services around the counties. It is now working to develop and establish a further training offer for staff in the follow-up service and for school staff with social pedagogical tasks and responsibilities. The offer shall be offered from the autumn of 2011. The task of the follow-up service is to contact all young people who are not in secondary education or work from completed primary school up to and including the age of 21. The county councils shall follow the youth through the follow-up service and ensure that they are provided with training, work or other activity. In addition, the follow-up service shall provide and coordinate multidisciplinary sectoral efforts against the target audience. In order to clarify the responsibilities of the county council for the follow-up of young people who are not in secondary education, we are now reviewing the follow-up service regulations. Summary of the consultation opinions on the proposed regulatory changes are being worked on these days. In order to achieve this, it has been important to build on already established cooperation relations and agreements between county councils and Nav in the counties. Good cooperation agreements have been concluded between the counties and Nav as a result of the central agreement between the Ministry of Labour and the KS from May 2007. The county councils and the county level of Nav are therefore invited to further develop and to make this cooperation concrete. It is a strong wish from us that young people in particular should be followed up in such a way that they return to higher education. That doesn't mean it's the ordinary race that suits all these kids. We have very good experience and a summary of the attempt we have had with letters of practice. We have made it possible for all the states to put it into practice while waiting for how to ensure that the intentions of this experiment can be continued on a permanent basis. We have succeeded – with an effort that has only lasted one year – in encouraging those who have worked with the follow-up service around the counties, who have often been a forgotten service, who have not been seen to any particular extent and who have been a bit of a secret service. So by seeing them and strengthening their skills, we've been able to reduce the number of young people we didn't know where, from 10,000 to 5,000 in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2658	Combating secondary school dropout is a priority task that brings together support across – as I can understand – all policy lines. It is in recognition that the future workforce of these young people is needed in Norwegian society – each of them. Therefore, we must make maximum efforts to get hold of them and to provide them with the skills they need to meet with later education and with the working life that will in the future demand them as valuable workers. I have found out in my work on this matter that there are very large differences between them as to how to achieve this. It was also the Council of State inside its post. I'm very pleased with the way it's now being worked out, so that you can learn from each other, that what's best practice, whether it's at county level, at school or at follow-up service level, is something that needs to be systematically passed on, so that you can learn from it. Although very good results have been achieved by tracking up 5,000 in the last year, I see that you are concerned that especially in Oslo, Finnmark and Nord-Trøndelag, many young people do not know exactly where they are. The Council of State itself stated that the longer it takes to reach them and get them started with either training, a custom scheme or a type of work training, the harder it is to get them back on track. So I and the Right are concerned that the practical letter system, as we know we've had good experience along the way, which is now finally evaluated, and where you've really put two lines in the answer and said that this is a very good system, needs to become a low-threshold system that you're willing to apply to more people, so that even more young people can get into a training course that brings them forward. So you're building a rock. You don't get the full and complete competence as quickly as you would have if you were in the traditional race, but you can gradually acquire the skills you need – and then you can get a letter or study qualification once on the road, if you work well. In conclusion, I just want to say that the follow-up service is an incredibly important safety net for those young people who start in higher education or who should have started there. It is extremely important that the safety net is fine-skinned enough to allow us to catch up and get back the kids, and that we get the good cooperation between the follow-up service, Nav and the municipalities, to ensure that we succeed in reaching this target.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2671	I fully agree with the interpellant that this is youth that we need in the future labour market. It is also the case that they have a great interest in agreeing to new offers, being discovered by the follow-up service and getting back and forth to higher education. We know that there is a lot more security in the workplace if you have completed your secondary education — taken a letter or obtained a study qualification — and that this is vulnerable young people if you don’t get a hold of them. I am very proud of the job that the follow-up service has done in cooperation with the counties and in cooperation with us now in a year, but we do not intend to give up until we find out the last 5,000, and before we have measures in place that make us not only know where they are, but can also make offers of how they can get hooked on a further race again. We will have this systematic partnership and cooperation with the county municipalities going on for a three-year period, and it has so far existed for one year. I have good hopes that we will succeed even better with this. Another measure, which I did not come up with in my main post, is that we also connected to the House Bank, because part of the young people who are in this risk zone live in unstable places. You get over it. It could be about young people who may be living on a hive, or in other ways. So we're trying to make a real package around to ensure increased stability. In the case of the letter-of-mortgage scheme, it is quite right that there is a system that has received a very good evaluation. What was perhaps a counter-representation when the practical letter system was launched was that some young people who had the best potential to complete and take a letter would give up earlier and thus have poorer skills. But what we can see so far from this attempt is that a majority of these young people are motivated to complete and take professional letters, so it's been a start on a race they weren't motivated to take. And practical letters are organized in such a way that you have four days at work, one day at school — usually. This means that young people, in particular depressed young people and, in part, significant gaps in youth knowledge, are in an ordinary job and, together with good adult workers, find out both the motivation and the ‘goods’. That's very good. I have good faith that the success that this effort has been for the first year can continue, that we're moving it with us, and that the states can learn from each other. In particular, I will ask them to learn from Uppland County.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2686	When the municipal politicians in these days deal with the municipal budgets for 2012, many of them will find that social assistance expenditure is breaking new borders. In Tønsbergs Blad as late as yesterday the councilman Geir Viksand in Tønsberg witnessed about this. And Karoline Lien of the Church's Bymition tells us that they are still meeting new faces in their work, and adds: ‘There are many young people who have fallen out of high school and who have lived a little here and there with comrades for some time, but who suddenly stand without a place to sleep.’ Then hotels and pensioners and means of living are the solution. Nothing is worse than putting young people into passive social security services over time. Some remain a expenditure item on public budgets throughout their lives. In Tønsberg, the municipality reacts to the state of things by setting up 33 new action sites in 2012, and that is good. I would like a lot of local authorities to take an example of this. Young people at work shall not receive social assistance. They need to get back to school or help get out of work — or just treatment, some of them need it too. It is possible to achieve this, as the interpellant reasonably suggests, through closer cooperation between schools, county councils and Nav and the municipalities. My own county, Vestfold, is, in fact, a ruling party in that way, where the county council and Nav have found each other working on the drop-out problems, and actually with quite good results. The lesson from this is that everyone has to go in the same direction. Not everyone can do it. Cooperation can, as you know, be a rather difficult discipline, especially when the actors choose to rid their jaws, i.e. disputes about who will pay the bill, instead of reconciling forces. I therefore believe that a clearer division of responsibilities between administrative levels would make it easier to deal with these issues. As the Council of State pointed out in its response to the interpellant, the government has taken action to reduce the dropout in high school. New GIV, a cooperation project between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour, is aimed at young people aged 16-19 who have neither school nor work. The Youth Guarantee shall ensure that young people under the age of 20 are employed or trained and the follow-up guarantee is aimed at the unemployed between the ages of 20 and 24. The government is also continuing the action guarantee, which is intended to ensure the provision of labour market measures for young people aged 20 to 24 who have been unemployed for more than six months, and we have the qualification programme for those young people who are in many ways the most distant from a place in the world of work. However, when we do not always succeed in capturing young people who fall out of school, there are probably many reasons. Some believe that the theory of vocational training is one of the reasons for this, and it is in fact that some have clearly easier to learn through practice. I am therefore pleased that many companies and municipalities are now offering such offers. In addition, we lack apprenticeship places. This situation is not improved by the excessive assignment of contracting authorities and private entities to enterprises hiring labour from Poland and Lithuania, rather than by Norwegian apprenticeships. In my time, only a small part of the youth schools went into high school. Since then, we have had an educational revolution, and today, as you know, everyone has a right to complete high school. Then I think we also have to realize that it is not all given to completing advanced education, but there should also be room for them in an inclusive working life. There are often questions about adapted training. I once had a friend who for a long time was unable to obtain a driving licence for a car. He never came further than to the theoretical knowledge test. Today, there is no problem; it is possible to measure knowledge by other means. And he's a good driver!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2713	In the beginning, I would like to thank the representative, Aspaker, for including this important topic in this interview. The theme is important for reducing high school dropouts and providing more services to students who have left or are about to leave high school for various reasons. The issue is also about improving cooperation between the follow-up service and Nav. There is no doubt that a large part of the reason why the need for OT services is so great is that in many cases the students have not been followed up in the first 10 years of school. Every third student in high school drops out. This is frightening, especially when we have knowledge of the consequences of lack of education. We therefore need to further strengthen the training service. Better cooperation between schools and the OT allows students to receive better adapted training provision. In Rogaland, which offers letters of practice, non-response is reduced to the dropout of every five students. It's a light, after all. This may indicate that the offer is effective and should be made into a national permanent offer. At the same time, the Progress Party will point out that all opportunities for more students to complete education must be put into practice. We believe that cooperation with schools and businesses and the public that can offer work are particularly important. In order for the OT to be able to follow up students, they're totally dependent on them knowing who's in the danger zone, and who's dropped out of school. This has improved, but it is important that all secondary schools should gradually have the same code use practice in the reporting system, so that the OT does not spend precious time searching for information when students move to another country, become ill or drop out of the school system. It is also necessary to require the counties to use the system properly as soon as possible. Several teams point to the fact that the bottleneck in contacting students in many cases is Nav, which through different departments offers a wide range of services, while only one department cooperates with the OT. If school dropouts are addressed directly to Nav and Nav does not send them to the OT, there is a risk that contact with OT disappears and it may be much more difficult for them both to enter and to complete education. Changes must be made here, so that, whatever the area of responsibility, Nav incorporates procedures so that the person entitled to the offer from the OT comes in contact with or at least has a conversation with him. That's why it's very positive what the knowledge minister now says, that OT and Nav have joint meetings to improve cooperation, because it's very important to make this work. Then we have the group that is struggling the most, and for which the OT lacks action. It is young people who are unable to benefit from secondary education. Here we talk about youth with major complex problems, care failure, psychiatry, illness and intoxication. These are young people who may need more than anyone to obtain a letter, so that they can best do themselves in the future. OT has many and good training measures. However, for some young people, it could be best to have the right to training and, instead, to follow up on an integrated approach, with emphasis on the prerequisites for learning. Professionally, it can often be a question of reconstructing holes from high school. Here's the cooperation key. The municipality of home also has a great responsibility, as this is a matter of living conditions. The OT can be involved here for the purposes of vocational guidance when the youth becomes in a position to take education. Too many people use the right to training without gaining competence, because the student has not been able to gain knowledge. In the light of the Progress Party, there is a need for comprehensive action between different levels of responsibility. Non-response does not have just one solution. Many different measures have been tried, with varying results. But some of the things that have been tried have worked very well. The problem, therefore, is not that you do not know what can be done, but that what helps, is not well implemented or not used in the whole educational system. This challenge must be addressed. Therefore, it is also important to follow up on New GIV and take prompt action where this does not work. The follow-up service also needs to be made much more widely known, making it a lower threshold for current candidates to contact them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2739	Some time ago, I had the great joy of attending and distributing a letter to a very large group of young men and women who had passed the test. One of these young people would like to thank him for having received the letter, and he said something that I thought was very thoughtful. He started by saying, "Now I'm something." Now he could answer, when he got the question, what are you? He could answer that he was safely planted in a group, he was a skilled worker, he had a letter, he was something. In other words, he had an identity. Now, when we're talking about non-response in this important interpellation, that's exactly what we're talking about. It has a deep human side, as well as, of course, the great social significance of this. The experience so far and to which both the inter-pellant and the state councils underline and point is that we have many good examples. We have many good results, but at the same time: the road is long to reach the goal, get rid of the dropout and deal with it better. There are several institutions that need to cooperate – in my view, it is quite obvious. Many have already been mentioned in the debate – the municipalities, Nav, the House Bank and public agencies – but I would also like to mention specifically that in general, business involves a resource that has been used very successfully in a number of cases. Cooperation between municipalities, counties and businesses needs to be better systematised. We have seen many results — and good results — of such broad cooperation. But my impression is also that many of these collaborations are characterized by a lack of endurance, in the sense that they operate locally with fires that either find different work and leave the project, and so it collapses, or that there is a lack of structure because tight public – municipal and county – budgets make it impossible to maintain the projects. So there has to be a constant pressure on a systematic form of work in this. However, my main message is that more players should also be involved in this important work. From my place in the Justice Committee, I – and we who are sitting there – meet many of the people who are on the drop-off statistics; we find them again in the crime statistics. Most recently today, we had a meeting with a previous conviction that told its life story, and it's joining this pattern and confirming the importance of this interpellation. He could tell about a relationship all the way back to his own elementary school, about the lack of mastery that up through the youth made him feel the need to camouflage his lack of being anything with drug abuse and crime. He was now in the lucky situation that he had managed to get out of this vicious circle, but once again underlined the importance of education, having a platform. So I'm back where I started, that this is a very important topic, both to take care of the most important resources in society, namely those that come after us, and not least to preserve the human dimension in relation to having a platform, having a foothold, having an identity. Then there must be broader cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2752	Thank you to Elisabeth Aspaker for an interesting interpellation, and thank you to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen for a thorough and uplifting answer. Too much happens, fortunately, in this area now around our country. There have just been many of those who have had the word before me, too. Upland is already — deserved — positively referred to by the Council of State as a state with full overview, and that is a good starting point. Yesterday, quite randomly regarding this interpellation debate, I visited the Nav office in Hadeland. It is an office that primarily covers the municipalities of Gran and Lunner, with a total of 22,000 inhabitants. During this meeting with the Nav management, the principal of the secondary school, the follow-up service, representatives from the county, both from regional development, from the business side and from the training office there, and among others. the person responsible for youth enterprises. Other actors who could, and should, attend that meeting were the municipality, the business community, the career centre, the labour market company Hapro and the regional office, for all these actors are in a joint effort to help about 150 young people up to 25 years of age. So there's 150 pieces in two municipalities, with 22,000 people, who are now missing. This is a complex group, but what is roughly characteristic of this group is that a quarter of the 150 have completed high school, but still have problems in their continuation. A quarter have completed a few years, a quarter have completed one year, and one fourth has nothing to point to from high school. They regard themselves as largely disconnected and have, like, accepted that they should live on the outside of society, that there is a normal situation. They all say that they've been disgruntled quite early in high school. They've been passive in leisure. They have experienced little mastery and many defeats, and they have clearly received little or no help from home and little support. Part of them are clearly part of a culture they've brought home, which is that it's normal to go out in social security. This is a grotesque picture of a youth group, and, for all things, there are exceptions, and not least, and it was like the main message throughout this whole meeting: It's not too late. It should also be lacking that one does not now give these young people a new, positive and offensive attention. That's all from the fact that some of them have to learn to understand the time, while others, as I said, may just have left to complete a few subjects in higher education. All the parties that were there impressed me simply. For they were not least cheaply engaged in what they called the social mission, to which they all thought they were obliged by definition. They were concerned with cooperation, holistic thinking and showing roughness and flexibility to each other. They were not, as Steinar Gullvåg was inside his post, concerned that there would be a clearer work distribution. They were, on the contrary, more concerned that they were just going to contribute to a culture in which they flexiblely cooperated with each other. I was not able to confirm my convictions that there are many legal and regulatory barriers that characterise such cooperation, and that make such cooperation difficult today. On the contrary, most people were very concerned that it is possible to work in new and good ways within the regulatory framework that is today. They would have more money, seagoing, but at the same time they underlined that, as said, it was still much to do, even within the existing resource frameworks they had. They were very concerned about – and I appreciate that, as a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee – that there was a lot of good work going on in the school for the time being, among other things. this with early efforts and a more varied school day, both methodologically and in terms of content. They were also pleased with the secondary school announcement New GIV, better vocational training, etc. That's good. Nav was very concerned that they should not turn their backs on society and working life, to a large extent, but that they should discover the school, cooperate with the school and run resources into school, so that it could be more preventive, along with Nav, in a much better way than it had been up to now. These include: Now to get in place, a company contact was located in the school, so the school would be better able to work with the business outside the school. So I left Hadeland last night and was very excited that there was such a good cooperation going on in such an important area of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2773	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. We are unable to achieve our objective of reducing non-compliance if the follow-up service works well and cooperates with other actors. It is the county that is required by the Training Act to have such a service, but it is obvious that municipalities also have a central role to play in our success – both as an actor when the student is followed up by the follow-up service, and not least in order to ensure that the follow-up service does not have more students in the system than necessary. In the debate on non-response, we must not forget that the fight against non-response starts many years before the student comes to secondary education. Good local economy, adapted and varied training and professionally good educators are crucial. In my home municipality, Dovre, we take this seriously and have started the project New School, which is briefly summarised about early help, correct help and inclusion. The principle is one teacher per 12 first and second grade students, as well as in primary and more practical subjects throughout primary school. We are already seeing good results shortly after the start: a lower rate of special education, fewer individual decisions and more effective training to lift everyone. In a few years, this will contribute to fewer drop-out students from Dovre. The new GIV initiative is probably the most profitable project ever launched by some government. Step-by-step and close follow-up are necessary for those students at risk of falling out of secondary education. Therefore, the SINTEF report, as referred to in the interview – and its conclusion – builds up during the New GIV work. The follow-up service has an important role to play here, it deserves increased focus and, in particular, it must have a proactive and systematic input into the work in cooperation with other actors. I will – as the State Council has also done several times in its posts – boast a little of my home state, Oppland. They do a lot of right in the follow-up work for drop-off students. All work on this theme requires an overview of the target population, and it has Uppland. I read the annual report from the 2010 follow-up service, and the follow-up service was concerned that they did not fully understand where between seven and ten students were. They worked systematically and well with other actors, especially with the Nav and the municipalities, but also with youth clubs, businesses, voluntary teams and organisations, drug teams and child and youth psychiatry. There is one trend that gives cause for concern: the follow-up service in Uppland reports an increasing number of complex help needs, especially in the area of drug use and psychiatry. Then it is important that we be able to establish cross-border follow-up, with clearly defined responsibilities and not least the exchange of information, so that the student can be helped in the best possible way. That is why the Minister of Health and Welfare must also be an important partner in the work of the New GIV. The new GIV has taken us a long step in the right direction, but in terms of systematics, real offers and proper follow-up of students in the follow-up service, we still have a way to go. We have to learn from the good examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2791	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this question. It's an important area. We've been worried, but I also think we in the State Council's posts heard that this is an area where there's a good deal going on. A lot has happened in a positive direction – for a long time. It is in any case an important topic that is addressed, because in this room we often discuss those who have fallen out, without really discussing their situation. We're talking about apostasy, what we're going to do to prevent it – early school, practice correction, apprenticeships – but the situation is that a lot of people have already fallen outside, and we're probably not as good as we should have been talking about it. The follow-up service is a very good idea that came with Reform 94, which is absolutely necessary to help all young people who are now undergoing secondary education in our counties. I checked what kind of information we give to young people. There is a website called young.no, which advertises that there is quality public information for young people. It says about the follow-up service that you can seek help there, that you have the right to get help if you do not apply for secondary school or apprenticeship, do not accept school or apprenticeship, are not in permanent work, end up in school or as an apprentice during the school year. If I were a student, I would have quite high expectations of what kind of help I should get in different situations, when I read this. As many people have also said: the follow-up service has worn out the fact that it works quite differently in the counties. There are very different objectives, and there are considerable variations in resource use — which were also addressed by the Council of State — and the organisation and competence of the service. It is a question that unfortunately has been following the follow-up service for too many years. I checked a little as I was going to prepare for this post. Then I found out that as early as 1988, Øystein Djupedal asked a similar question to the Minister of Education at the time, but then it was the different employment offices that posed the challenge. The follow-up service has a vital role to play in preventing young people from falling out of training and working life. The follow-up service was also a very important topic when we discussed the Education Line here in Stortinget. It was then that a unanimous committee felt that the overall quality of the service had to be strengthened and that the follow-up service had to be given a completely necessary priority in the work of the county. The Committee noted that provision should be made for the exchange of experience, skills and transfer of competences between municipalities. I don't know, but I also get a bit of an impression of some of the posts that have been here in the hall, have been prepared before we heard the Government's response, because I feel that much of what she says follows up what the Storting was concerned about that time. It's very good that we get a skills enhancement for the follow-up service. I think you think in the right way in the work, and we got a good review of what is done. I think it is particularly positive that there is now work to establish systematic cooperation between schools, follow-up services and Nav, that this is followed up with courses for employees, that cooperation on the follow-up project is strengthened, and that cooperation structures are further developed. The fact that there are now 500 employees on course in the follow-up service and Nav shows that this is something that is under pressure. It is also very good that a further training offer is established for staff in the follow-up service and for schools with special pedagogical tasks. Too often we can't do these things at the same time. We fill in competence without changing systems, and we change routines and systems without filling in with competence. But I now think we're doing this in a good way. We have a comprehensive and systematic approach to change organisation and implementation methods. We have noticed that this is an area where the Department and the Council of State work in other ways, for example. when we look at how structural and cultural changes are to be implemented in the school notification, which the Committee is also working on. Then it was all I could say for tonight, President – but thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2814	It's a new day tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2817	That's what Alf Pröysen also said: "You're going to get a day in a row that's clean and unused, with blank sheets and peaches counting." I think that's what many young people experience when they meet the follow-up service, just to get the new chance they need after things went wrong in the past. I would like to thank you for a good and reflected debate. There's no doubt that the human dimension has been the focus of all those who have had the word up here. Just because it's young people this is all about, it's just one thing to say, here we can't give up, we have to ally ourselves with all the good forces that can help these young people complete education, build their skills, so that they can become good workers in society. I also want to say that I think it's important to think a little bit more of a parent here, and that it might also be possible to ally even more with your parents than you've traditionally thought. Although these are young people who are beginning to approach the age of authority, I think that many of them still have good support from their parents and other superiors who can influence them in a positive direction. But combating non-response requires constant pressure, and it requires endurance. I think both the representative Steinar Gullvåg and Anders B. Werp had the consequences if we did not succeed. We know that young people who fall out of education are unfortunately finding themselves overrepresented in the negative statistics of society, either through social assistance, unemployment or crime. Here it is very important to contribute to mobilising responsibility. I also think the example from the municipality of Tønsberg is worth noting. So it's a municipality that takes responsibility, establishing these training places, the practice places, which means that young people who come to the social office, to Nav, get an offer to be active, which means that they get structures in their everyday lives, that they get work practices, which are again important in terms of getting into better hands and taking on education. Then I think the story from Anders B. Werp about the young man who received his letter, and who said the redeeming words that he finally felt that he had become something, is significant. I think almost no one understands how important it is to have any such milestones as you experience to pass, and as you know, it can be absolutely crucial for which doors are open to you further in life. With these words, I thank you again for the debate and just want to stress how important it is that all good forces must play well together here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2834	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, and it is a great strength for this work that there is such a broad political consensus on how important it is. We're doing a good job, but we have a big job to do, and we're going to be better off than we've been able to do now. I agree with the right-wing representative from Buskerud, who was concerned about how incredibly inspiring it is to be at these events where one distributes letters of favour, letter and master's letter. In fact, there's one of the most encouraging things you can do, because there's a lot of young people and adults who've finally reached their goal and got a paper on their qualifications and are ready for new tasks in the world. And – not least: these are people that society needs. We have too few people who have a letter. We have a great need to recruit more people, and we have a common task in raising the status of professionals. It's also part of this. Then it is vital that business opens its doors to the most school-leaded and least motivated young people. So far, I've seen so many examples of students who have had a lot of absence, a lot of cheating, who have really had a long history of school failure that makes you feel like you can't master anything, think that you can't learn anything more, and of course start to withdraw, but where an employer has opened their doors to them and given them an opportunity to participate in a job – at first not on the same lines as the others, but more like handmaids and assistants, and later on as an increasingly equal person. It has been shown to motivate many of those who have been most fat up with the school, so those who have opened the door say already, should have a warm thanks for it. I want many more who say OK, come on, join us, you can get to come to us and take practical letters, we accept apprentices, etc. There's a big job we have to do to get more apprenticeships. We are entering into a social contract with partners to ensure commitment. We have a lot of work to do to get to a high school that's more motivating, inclusive and varied, and that makes more students master the school before they get into the course where the school offers them that way. We have a great job to do to get the rest of the New GIV collaboration, the systematic partnership that the state has with the municipalities and the counties, to work so that we have optimal pressure on it. Now for 15 years has 70 pst. students leaving high school completed five years after leaving school. I think it's quite possible to get it up to 75 pst. by 2015. Then there are 3,000 more young people who complete secondary education each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2847	Then there's case no. 9 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2853	The size is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2903	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2908	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2932	During the debate, Mr Rommetveit put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:166 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e2945	Here it is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e3074	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e3084	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: No voting theme is available for 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-22.ana.ud764e3293	As a result, today's business card has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
