ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e67	The representatives of Borghild Tenden, Else-May Botten, Øyvind Waksdal and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Rikmor Andersen Eide on leave of absence from 6 June to 8 June, from 6 June to 9 June and from the representative of Mr Tore Hagebakken on leave of absence from 6 June to 8 June, both to attend the Conference of the Western Nordic Councils in Torshavn, the Faroe Islands of the Group of the Progressive Party on the leave of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 6 June to 10 June in order to take part in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO to Kabul, the Afghanistan of the Group of the Workers on the leave of the representative Marian Aasen from 6 June to 11 June in order to take part in a seminar in the direction of the OECD and Harvard in Ontario, Canada from the Grand Committee of the Progress Party on the sick leave of the representative Siv Jensen from 6 June to 11 June in order to 11 June in order to take part, after the invitation of a seminar in the direction of Mr Jon Jäger Gågsvard in Ontario, Canada from 10 June to 6 June to 6 June in the presence of Mr Siv Jensen These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oppland County and Oslo, Espen Granberg Johnsen and Sylvi Listhaug, respectively, currently have both parental leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the representatives Tore Hagebakken and Siv Jensen's leave respectively. Other alternates of the State of Oppland, Solveig Rindhölen, are requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Tore Hagebakken for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund 6-10. June For More and Romesdal County: Steinar Reiten 6–9. June For Nordland County: Kari Storstrand 6-10. June For Uppland County: Ragnar Nordgreen 6-8. June For Oslo: Mazyar Keshvari 6 June and until further notice For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen 6-10. June For Eastfold County: Erlend Wiborg June 6th and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e183	Anita Orlund, Steinar Reiten, Kari Storstrand, Ragnar Nordgreen, Mazyar Keshvari, Sonja Edvardsen and Erlend Wiborg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e189	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is unanimously elected President of the Stortinget meeting today. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e209	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e218	Today, we have a case that has been debated in many ways, and perhaps even debated over a year ago. The IA agreement was finalised in the winter of 2010, and by the way, there was a broad, wide debate in the media. What's kind of interesting to see is that the illness has been pretty stable in the long run. But in periods, things have gone up a lot, except in 2004, when it went down a lot, before it started going up again. But although the fluctuations have not been large and the number of people who have been sick has been broadly stable since 1990, it is interesting and perhaps worth noting that the length of sick leave has increased by 23 pst. from 1989 to 2009. In other words, there are no more people who are getting bad today, but we are bad so much longer when we first get it. And what you should have studied and looked at is how you can reduce the length of your sick leave. That's the core of the proposition we're dealing with today, trying to reduce the length of sick leave. The government proposes several measures, but also some sanctions. As regards the measures proposed by the Government, these include: more follow-up at an earlier stage, and provision is made for new and reinforced sanctions. I also think you should be honest enough to dwell on the fact that, although the new sanctions and the new measures may be good, they can also lead to an increase in bureaucracy, a more cumbersome system, that it becomes more difficult to get what should be the result, namely to help the individual get back to work. We should be careful not to get into such a situation that there is more counting and paper storage in the Nav system, rather than spending time following the individual, so that they can get back to work as quickly as possible. With those words, I would also like to signal that there is an overall increase in support of the measures and sanctions taken by the government, but that there may be a slightly different approach to it. Let me then be allowed to comment on some of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting. We believe it is important, and promote proposals, that follow-up plans should be submitted early, and as early as possible. The government also believes that, but we want to set the deadline to eight weeks, not to nine weeks. As far as dialogue meeting 2 is concerned, we see that the government maintains today’s requirement of six months – only a change in the law is made by changing six months to 26 weeks, which will be half a year. If I don't remember correctly, not the Christian People's Party, but only the Advance Party and the Right are behind the proposal that is being promoted, to take action earlier, from 16 weeks, i.e. that dialogue meeting 2 must be completed within 16 weeks. This is also important to prevent the length of sick leave. The earlier the follow-up, the easier it is to help the sick person either on a new career path or back to his previous job. We know that you go way too long, it's so that you have easy to get on disability. And that's one of the big dilemmas you've had in the social security debate lately. I will also, in conclusion, be allowed to point to two other proposals. One goes on sanctions against Nav. If Nav does not do his job in the course of a medical examination – which has also been criticised by the Riksrevision – there is no penalty in relation to it. The times when doctors are sick, and the employer is there, are willing to do the job, meet up again and again without the necessary follow-up from Nav, I also think that new mechanisms should be found to ease the financial burden on employers, including, for instance, Nav taking a larger part of the bill. With that, I get back in a new article later today. I will address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote, alone and together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e241	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e244	We are discussing today the legislative changes and the follow-up to the IA agreement that the parties agreed on almost one and a half years ago. The country, its employees and employers agree on a binding and detailed agreement to make the labour market more inclusive. It's unique. Tripartite cooperation makes reforms take place. Very few countries can refer to the type of obligatory, long-term and not least involved work in the field of working life. It is one of the most important pillars of the Norwegian model, and the IA agreement is probably the result of that cooperation. It has given us a new and reinforced IA agreement, where we now, in order to reduce sick leave, do more of what we've seen work before, and we're going to implement it earlier. Increased use of classified search messages knows we're working. It is good to keep in touch with the labour market for those who can. It helps to increase your chances of getting back faster. When we introduced classified search messages, absences went down, but it needs to be used more. So now it's going to be the starting point. We also make stronger demands for participation from all parties in the new agreement. We make clear demands on employers to facilitate disease management and better prevent sick leave. Employees have an equally clear obligation to contribute, and to use their own working skills in the course of a medical examination. The role of health care professionals was fully legitimately taken into account in the work on the new agreement. Sick persons who do not contribute to the traineeship, who do not participate in the dialogue meetings and who do not thus obtain sufficient information about the workplace and the working life in which the patient can or cannot be informed, and how the employer stands ready or is not prepared to accept him/her, are involved in reducing the chances of proper follow-up and realistic levels of medical treatment. Therefore, sanctions are now also at risk of disease-reporting, which does not cooperate with disease-reporters. This is important, because without proper participation and follow-up from the employer, the nurse, the employee and the hub together, the return work does not receive the strength it needs. Therefore, there is an effective sanctioning regime in place where participation and participation do not take place. The employee, of course, is in danger of losing his sick pay, and the employer and the doctor now risk fines on their part. I am very pleased that the entire committee in the vote stresses that penalties and fines are of course not an end in themselves. What we want is for the actors to do their job in the asylum process, not for them to be fined. For this reason, the pre-criminal alert rules are a crucial part of a sanction regime that we want to act as a prevention tool. The Committee has also taken note of the contributions made during the consultation round on the possibility for a nurse to be exempted from participation, and a joint committee stresses that, of course, having a general high workload is not a valid reason for not participating in the dialogue meetings. There must be something that is really extraordinary, before one can claim valid reason not to meet. We expect the strong signal to be picked up, and the prescription is clear on its side that there must be something just outside the usual. It shall not be interpretable. Now that we're doing more of what we've done in the past that worked, and that we're implementing it faster, the new agreement can be called a reform of presence and activity. That's because we believe that work is also often the best medicine. Facilitation of contact with the workplace during the sick period, accelerated stop points together with clear obligations for all involved – not least Nav – with a related sanction regime is just a clear improvement and a clear reinforcement of previous IA work. We're putting the last stone in the framework here today. Now the job must start for a more inclusive working life and reduce sick leave locally at the individual workplace around the country, where already today there is an enormous amount of good work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e270	It is, as has been said, quite a broad consensus in the Committee that many of the instruments outlined in this proposal are good instruments. It is essential that we have early intervention, it is essential to get early provision of rehabilitation, it is essential to avoid people almost automatically getting long sick leave if they could return to work earlier. Then, too, as the two former representatives have been involved, it is absolutely essential that the responsibilities of the nurse be clarified and clarified. Of course, it is a difficult dilemma for many people who are ill, because on the one hand they are responsible to their patients and responsible for the fact that patients not only receive proper treatment but also receive a medical report if appropriate. At the same time, there is reason to believe that there has been an automatic provision of a certain amount of sick leave for all those with specific diseases, without the necessary individual consideration and treatment behind it. And that's a challenge. So is the most important health care provider can do, also to help the patient, or those who are ill, come back to work. Maybe that's what's most missing in today's system. This is how health professionals are trained in the field of health care. It's a natural part of their education, but the focus on how to get people back to work – just to see the health of the people – may have been greater in comparison to. Since there is a broad consensus on many of these proposals, I would like to attach some considerations to it, which also the Right has clarified in the form of a note. I also agree, of course, with the comments made by the Committee's chairman in the light of the proposals and comments put forward by the Right and the Advance Party, which are primarily marked by the fact that we are somewhat more impatient and see reason to set the deadlines just before in order to avoid long-term sick leave. Over the last few weeks, there has been another round of turbulence and criticism against the Nav system. I am of those who are skeptical that politicians at every crossroads should scream at the systems – not because our systems do not lack them, because they do, but simply because we must also allow reforms time to work. That's why it's not often that the Right goes to this pulpit and reminds us that we had a different device on the Nav reform than the one that actually came. But I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it right now. But there is one thing that has emerged in the Nav system that Right has been busy for a long time, and that is that there is a danger of over-bureaucratisation, that is, a danger that the system will become so big and the routines and reporting requirements become so many that you forget what the Nav reform really should do, namely follow up on the individual. The starting point for the Nav reform was not a geographical co-location or organisational co-location; it was an instrument for getting a better system to follow up the individual user. I am in favour of having reporting procedures. I think it's important to measure and report, but at the same time, I think it's important that you don't stare blindly at measuring effort. Today, hubs are measured weekly or weekly on 15-20 different criteria. Many of them are just about these things we are discussing today, how many dialogue meetings you have, when the dialogue meetings are, etc. etc. It may be necessary during a transitional period simply to ensure that a culture is also given in the Nav system to help people return to work quickly. But in the long term, I think it's a much better approach that the Nav system, like other public systems, is more measured on target achievement and less on effort. That is to say, to put it a little at the top, it is less significant exactly what Nav does at the individual Nav office. The crucial thing is what kind of results you get. That's the right view. However, now that we support the measures put forward by the government, it has something to do with the respect we have for the IA negotiations and the important and central work that the parties have there, but also because we believe that these requirements are important during an important transitional period in order to create a new culture or to further develop a new culture both in the workplaces, among the practitioners and in the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e285	Like the parties to the IA agreement, I am convinced that if the sick person is followed up in a positive and close manner, more people will be able to come back to work before. The reason why I start this way is that I think that there is more quality in the follow-up that is important, and that it is done in a positive way both from the nurse and from the Nav and from the employer, than that there are the number of stop points or penalties that are the most important instrument. We support the content of the proposition. It's a follow-up to the IA agreement, and I think it's the necessary measures now. But at the same time, I would like to stress that sometimes in the debate it sounds as if politicians are talking as if only you have rules and follow-up enough, so there is almost no disease. But it does. I also believe that there is too little attention around some of the good examples where local employers have deliberately worked to reduce sick leave and deliberately to include people in the workplace. They succeed better than others. It has something to do with having a positive attitude to employees and to organization, and also to trust people and to follow up positively. I am a little surprised that no more employers show greater interest in some of the attempts made to follow up the sick. Then I'm probably in a bit of a hurry – there's not so much difference between the government parties and the opposition in this case – some comments that follow the setting that I think there's a reason to take a look at. One is that, overall, the opposition believes that there are far from being good enough financial incentives, either for the employer or for the employee, to return to work quickly. I'm a little surprised at what the opposition means by that, especially with regard to the employees, and I think it's a little ominous if they start talking again about that there should be karendays or other kinds of financial penalties against people during the sick period. The second thing I want to point out is a note that says that ‘the medical practice of the day is not working well enough. This is further complicated by the fact that disease reporting is not based solely on ‘objective’ diagnostics — i.e. what appears to be an X-ray or a blood test. There is well reason to remember that up through history there have been quite a number of diagnostics that have not been shown on such tests. How to use e.g. have objective criteria related to mental illness, are a little difficult for me to understand. I think that we politicians at Stortinget should leave the doctors to diagnose. Some of the things that don't appear on a sample can actually be as much disease as what appears on a sample. Many of us have worked 100 pst completely. in working life for many years with a diagnosis. So there's not necessarily any criterion for being ill-reported. I'm a little worried about this way of talking about sick people, and also about making a kind of climate where part of the diagnosis, which I think it's difficult enough today, doesn't need this suspicion. So it is that you now want to evaluate classified search reports every time, and I agree with that. That may make sense, but at the same time there should be an individual assessment related to this both by the sick person and also of what kind of work it is possible to get. There's research on this. I've got one on my desk from the University of Health in Bergen, which shows that some of those who were classified as sick were actually gone further from work than the others. This may indicate that if you were to get a practice where you push people back into work before they're ready, you could risk ending up with a worse result. So I'll warn you a little bit about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e298	The committee chairman and the case rapporteur were concerned that we had a wide-ranging debate on this in the public space when the negotiations were under way. In recent times, there has been a public change of words about disability. In both of these cases, the objective is clear: the workline has been the leader in policy. We want a society with a high level of professional participation. It is necessary to finance what is rightly referred to as broad and generous welfare schemes. The most important measure to reduce the number of disabled people is to increase efforts to prevent people from falling out of work. So the fight against long-term absence due to disease is important to bring down the number of new miscarriages. It's easier to prevent people from falling out of work than to lift people back to work. Work on sick leave is not only important for individual workers, but it is at least equally important for businesses and for society as a whole. This is the workforce that both businesses and society need. Therefore, it is important to reduce long-term absences. Then you can ask yourself why sick leave is high in Norway. It is stable, but it is high, also compared to countries it is natural to compare with, and despite the efforts made to reduce sick leave. I think one of the key answers is that we have a high level of professional participation. But I also think we should be so open to say that one of the reasons might be that we have deviated from the principle that it should pay off working. When you have a full wage in case of illness, it can rightly be seen as a break on the workline. This is also a breach supported by the Central Party, this is a violation supported by the government parties, and this is a breach that I have, at least until recently, realized that the opposition parties have also supported. This is because economic security for those who get sick is more important than the economic incentives of having reduced wages under illness. But, as Andersen's representative was also involved, I see in this case that there may be some new tactics from the opposition parties, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. They write in the setting: ‘There is also reason to recall that there is far from good enough financial incentives for employers and employees to get the latter back to work quickly.’ It is of course admirable to point out that it is the workers who are going back to work, but this comment is cause for concern. I'm asking the question if here we see a cat going out of the bag, because what can be meant by financial incentives to get people back to work beyond the qualifying days and cut wages in case of illness? I hope that the representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party will be able to clarify this debate. Furthermore, the Centre Party supports the measures agreed between the parties. This is probably not the last chapter in the fight against sick leave. It is certainly a good step forward, and the Central Party also supports the follow-up by the government to the agreement concluded by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e316	This is an interesting case in the light of the miscommunication that came well over a week ago, because this is part of the basis that can be laid to avoid people getting so far out that they are being pushed out of work permanently, and, as many people have been involved, it is a follow-up to the IA agreement that was concluded more than a year ago. There is broad agreement that the IA Agreement has not delivered the desired results. Sick leave has been reduced a little, but not enough. Closer follow-up by the employer under illness provides a better link with the labour market, and stronger links with their own employment are necessary to return to work. «Intensive follow-up», but also «Previous effort» is key. Long-term sick leave increases the likelihood of permanent exclusion from working life. Three months after the health care period was over, it was only 20 pst. who was working again, says the NOU Work for Health, from 2010. So 15 months after they got sick, the situation for those who were asked was 20 pst. pending, 60 pst. worked on redundancy payments, etc., and only 20 pst. was back to work. It illustrates how demanding it is to return to work after long-term sick leave — and it also illustrates the importance of early work. Because even though SV's Karin Andersen points out that there will always be a disease, it is that if one manages to make early efforts and make close follow-up for those who have an opportunity to come back, it will strengthen their ability to come back. And that's the point. Another study carried out by the Institute for Safety and Health at Work showed that one in four is fully or nearly certain that they will be out of work in five years – 600,000 are thus fully or partly confident that they will be out of work in five years’ time. Half of this group has been diagnosed for two months or more in the last five years. It also illustrates the importance of close follow-up. This is a group where there are certainly people who are going to go out and who are likely to go out because they are not able to do more, but it shows how important it is to carry out dialogue meetings and have close follow-up, early efforts and good dialogue with the employee to at least keep them a little busy all the way. Another point is that even after a relatively short period of illness, many people are unsure whether they are able to return to work. And here I think that the use of classified job application and closer follow-up from the employer could hopefully lead to a certain relationship to the job, which in turn could lead to them being able to cope with longer work. Therefore, there is also a need to commit both the employer, the employee and the sick person in terms of follow-up. That's why the stop points are positive. The national audit analysis of Nav has shown in the past that there are large differences from state to state – from 20 pst. to 60 pst. – in the case of implementation of dialogue meetings. For the Christian People's Party, it is most important that the dialogue meetings are conducted. That is why we support the Government's proposal for the timing of the dialogue meetings and not the wish of the Right and the Advance Party to have it earlier. First of all, we have a desire for it to be implemented. That is why we are also pleased that the government is following up on what was the intention of the Christian People's Party's proposals in recent years, namely stronger economic instruments to achieve a good follow-up to the IA agreement. Because now I think this will be prioritised. We refer to the proposals in the 2011 state budget, where we have promoted a slightly different device and a change in the financing of the sickness pay scheme. As I said, we are pleased with the sanctions that are now coming from the government, but we believe that co-financing would bring even more responsibility to the parties. In any case, the signals apply and the point is that the dialogue meetings are to be conducted. We hope that will be the effect of what is adopted today. Finally, I will also get into a study that has been referred to in the failure report. Half of the doctors asked have been convinced by the patient, even though it was across their own medical assessment — half of the patients. It shows that the practice of the search messages is important and it is important to strengthen the training of health care providers. It's a point for which an overall committee has agreed, and for which the Christian People's Party is pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e337	Sick leave is unlucky for individual workers, for businesses and for society in general. Everyone's earned a reduced sick leave. Therefore, the size of the fund is currently addressing the government’s proposals for changes to the rules of the workers’, employers’, the Employment and Welfare Act and the sick person’s obligations in the follow-up to the sick leave. The proposals follow from the IA Agreement and its Protocols. The agreement was concluded between the government and the social partners last February and is one of several measures to achieve the objective of the IA Agreement of significantly reducing sick leave. There is a general consensus that early follow-up and dialogue are important when the worker becomes ill. To ensure this, the government is now proposing to speed up the deadlines for employers to follow up their sick workers through follow-up plans and dialogue meetings. I see that a minority in the Committee believe that the deadline for the so-called dialogue meeting 2 should also be speeded up to 16 weeks of search. In this respect, I would like to point out that the parties to the IA agreement agreed to keep the current deadline of 26 weeks. I will further show that it is a final deadline we are talking about. If so required by either party, the meeting shall be held earlier. For most sick people, activity is more health-promoting than passiveness. The government therefore wants to facilitate the increased use of classified search messages. Graded sick leave maintains contact with the workplace and the residual working capacity of the sick person can be restored. The government believes this will help prevent exclusion from the labour market and increase inclusion. In this context, it is important that a medical practitioner is well aware of follow-up plans and dialogue meetings, so that all options for the use of classified search messages are evaluated. It is therefore now proposed to send the employer’s follow-up plan at an early stage and to a greater extent to attend the dialogue meetings themselves. The Government considers that the follow-up of the various actors by the authorities should be based primarily on dialogue and positive instruments. However, experience shows that there is also a need for a more active follow-up of actors who do not implement the minimum legal requirements for sick leave. The Government considers that appropriate and balanced responses are necessary in order to support legislation and the positive instruments and to propose provisions to that effect. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the employer and health-care provider be charged a fee in case of non-compliance with sick leave obligations. Workers who do not contribute as required by the law may, on their part, be at risk of stopping sick pay payments. A minority in the Committee proposes that fees to employers for the first dialogue meeting should not exceed NOK 5000, compared with NOK 10000 in the government's proposal. Firstly, I would like to stress that the level of fees must be so high that it actually supports the importance of a good follow-up on sick leave. In addition, the employer shall always be given an alert with the possibility to rectify before any charge is made. I also see that there are some members of the committee who believe that the doctors are too easily excluded from the government's proposals. While it is the employer and employee who are – and still should be – the main actors in sick leave work, the participation of doctors in this process is undoubtedly also very important. The reactions we are proposing today are adapted to this. The government has also had a good dialogue with the Medical Association to ensure proper follow-up in the future. With the new government proposal for rules, Nav is assigned the task of following the different actors more closely than today. The government is aware of the danger of overloading the Employment and Welfare Act. It is therefore important that we develop the rules so that they can be followed up in practice. The Government considers that the proposals for new rules on health care providers are of the utmost importance. Finally, I would like to stress that the objective is not reactions and penalties in themselves. The most important thing is to incorporate a culture of follow-up how good sick leave work becomes a natural part of the everyday life of businesses and doctors. A good and relevant follow-up to sick leave is an important prerequisite for reduced absences and the most inclusive working life possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e360	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e364	About 71,000 are in the queue for unemployment. These have Nav as a kind of employer, even during a possible sick period. Is the minister sure, and warrants her, that these are being followed up by Nav even when they are ill? Apply this matter also in the IA work in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e369	If I understand the question correctly, it's about how to follow up sick people who go on a daily allowance. Is that the question? Then I just have to say that I cannot give an exact answer on how that work is done today, how Nav follows this up, so I have to come back to that with a written explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e376	We rely on both employers to do their job, doctors to do their job, and the employee to be motivated to return to work. There are a number of things that need to be put in place to succeed in reducing sick leave. You are also totally dependent on Nav working optimally and doing your job if you want to succeed in this work. Then there are some groups that end up outside, among other things. mental illness — in many cases due to a minor mental disorder. Today, one of the major challenges and problems is that they do not have good enough to offer, among other things. job training and follow-up in that situation. Will the Council of State take the necessary initiatives to facilitate the creation of more psychologically ill workplaces to enable them to return to work in a faster way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e383	The question is how to follow up a particular group of sick people, those with mental illness. In principle, we suggest that we treat mental ills in the same way as others with physical diseases – that the desire for a close-up and good follow-up as early as possible by Nav, doctor and employer is also an active tool for this group. Then, of course, we can also discuss how to organise labour market measures more for mentally ill people, but that will be basically for those who are out of work. The most important thing is to keep people in working life and follow them up there and there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e388	Under the IA agreement, there was an opening for employers to have a greater financial responsibility for long-term sick leave. Several employers’ organisations were positive and the employee’s organisations were positive. Different models were also introduced to get it done. The government has said in the past that the bend, that is, what makes us not get this done, is the computer systems of Nav. Is it possible for the Council of State to say something about the possible introduction of a system that makes it more favourable or better for employees and employers through greater long-term financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e393	I think we can agree that giving the employer a greater responsibility for long-term absence will stimulate that the employer is also more likely to facilitate that part, which is, of course, the worrying part. So I can stress that I'm also very concerned that we're going to follow it up. But just related to the debate we have had on Nav, and many of the concerns that the opposition is also concerned about related to this work, that Nav has to do his job, it was my and the government's assessment that doing what was in the expert committee's proposal would simply be too much a burden for Nav now. I can document that well in a different context. We are now working on the so-called KS1 assessment to put this big new computer system in place. The money must be in place. I have been very clear from here that it is not the money it should be on, but this needs to be planned well and carefully. I've been in my letter to the Riksrevision last year. I've then said that we're probably approaching the end of this decade before you have the whole system in place, but this will probably gradually get in place – so at some point you won't get right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e400	One of the concerns I had prepared for before the proposition came was one of the points that the representative Reiertsen raised on the question instead, namely the employees who do not have the employer. In that report, the Riksrevision also criticised the follow-up of those workers. When talking about early work, close follow-up, it is difficult for those workers who no longer have an employer. And when you're also talking about trying to get them back to work, it's extra challenging for those people who don't have a job to go back to, and thus can't go gradually in the same way as others. I respect the fact that it is not so easy to give concrete answers to the question that was put in place, but I would like to challenge the Council of State whether you are thinking about doing some special action in order to be able to catch them in a better way – at different places of action, or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e407	I answered this question in connection with the examination by the Control and Constitutional Committee of the National Audit Office's comment on Nav's sick leave work, and what I was just about to do was the group of workers who do not have employers, and that is why we have to do something special about it. Then I showed that you are looking at how to follow up on this, but we have not come so far that I can now give any concrete feedback. However, I promise to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way when we have developed the work we are going to do for that particular group. I was very clear that it's a group that probably doesn't get the right treatment today, and now we're going to take a special look at that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e412	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e417	First, three experiences from a recent committee visit in the Netherlands, namely that early efforts are essential for the development of absenteeism, that responsibilities for employers are very important to prevent and prevent long-term absences, and that active occupational health services are a prerequisite for early action. Now, of course, we have to recognise that there is a difference between the Dutch welfare system and the Norwegian one, and I will in no way recommend the extensive privatisation of the disease that has taken place in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, there are elements in the Dutch system that some people think should be transferred to Norway. We have had a discussion about the employer's role in absenteeism, mainly in relation to the employer's period, but also in relation to the employer's responsibility for the sick during the absence period. This proposition is also about the last one. But I have to confess that I would like to see John G. Bernander face if we suddenly suggested that the employer's period be extended to two years, that is, as in the Netherlands. What's interesting about the attitude we're dealing with now is, in particular, not the proposals from the opposition in the categories 'too early' and 'too late', but that the Right and Advance Party clearly think in the Dutch direction when they stress the need to extend the employer's financial responsibility for long-term absence, and almost in the same breath complain about the doctors' melancholy healthcare practices. Here we are at the heart of the welfare policy that the two parties are moving forward towards the 2013 major elections. They believe that our high level of sick leave is actually the result of poor work ethic, that workers exploit a lot of a very generous absence scheme, that absenteeism is largely synonymous with holidays, and that doctors are almost in good health. Yes, the Progress Party also claims that the misuse of sick pay is so great that the IA agreement's 20 pst target. reduction in sick leave would have been achieved if it had not been for too much sick leave. Consequently, the logic of the right-wing parties, which they regrettably share with certain socio-economic environments across the country, suggests that the sick leave system must now be tightened up and that workers and employers must pay their share of sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e426	I agree with Mr Gullvåg that a good occupational health service is important. In fact, I would recommend that the representative of Gullvåg also use it, for example. to have his hearing checked. For the Right, at regular intervals in all such debates, it has been stated clearly that turning the debate on sick leave into a question of private work ethic is a derailment. I'm going to repeat that more than I'd like to do now. There are two things I want to comment on. Firstly, it is the question of objective medical messages or not. Around most of the conditions that have emerged, there is quite a broad consensus – of course there are exceptions, you have broken your back, for example, I think most people will agree that objectively you have broken your back, and that means that at least you have to keep the bed for a period of time. Whether it's up to the election campaign or not, none of us have to assess. But for a lot of other diseases, diseases, it's not that you can say that objectively, based on some form, you have to be gone so and so long. Just because it is the way the representative Tritenbergstuen said, that work also makes people healthy, it is important to bear in mind that the individual treatment and individual assessment of the individual subject is absolutely crucial. But that also means that we have to get away from the idea that there is an objective diagnosis that doctors can in any case make, and where there is also an objective fascist about how long you're going to be gone. The other thing I would like to comment on is this with employees and the employer's responsibility for sickness funding. The employer’s health money funding is agreed on – this has been taken up by the IA parties, the Council of State says she agrees with it, and it can also be a good contribution to getting a greater motivation for many businesses and many public institutions to keep people in work. As far as the financial incentives of the employee are concerned, they are not present. It's an objective truth -- that's the way it is. We have 100 pst. wages and salaries under sickness, and as a result there is no economic incentive for the worker to return to work in the present system. Now it is also the case that the Right in its current programme has not proposed it either. Nor do we propose to reduce sick pay in our alternative budgets. However, it is strange not to discuss the employee’s financial incentives when discussing the employer’s financial incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e438	Without repeating what the representative, Røe Isaksen, said: It has been heard and said, and I am not commenting on it any further. But I support the comments that have come from him. There are two things I want to draw. One is that Gullvåg said that the Progress Party claims that the objectives of the IA agreement could have been achieved if one had restricted social security abuse and had not abused sick leave. This is not a claim from the Progress Party, which was made at the hearings on the matter in the Committee. That's also reflected in a report from Proba, and that's what we're referring to in terms of the statements that show that 6-8 pst. sick leave is related to abuse. I think it's a debate you have to take. I don't think any of us here in this room are worthy, or want, to take advantage of Norwegian welfare solutions, to have an abuse of them. I think everyone agrees that it will help undermine our good arrangements, and that is what we want, is the good arrangements for those who need them. You cannot accept abuse either. This is a debate that the Progress Party wants to take, and a debate that we believe is important. As for what I asked questions in the reply to the Council of State: it is now time that very many young people are struggling with mild mental disorders. I agree that early efforts must be made, and efforts must be made at the workplace. Many of them do not work in IA companies, but work in other companies. You could say that those who don't work in IA companies should also have early work at their workplaces, but then we know from the research, we know from the reports from Mental Health that a good part of the same people are not advised to be at their workplaces during their illness. Perhaps the workplace is the reason why the suffering has flared up. Then it is my point that it must be important to have measures to ensure that they are not passive, but rather to receive an offer of work-related activity, linked to labour market measures for mental illness. We have had many great offers within, among others. Green care – which, unfortunately, has been neglected in recent years – could have helped to help very many return to work at an earlier stage. I wish you could have put more effort into this. That's my message in the case of mental disorders, especially when we know that there are mental disorders that are responsible for six out of ten under 40 years of age on permanent disability. Many of them come from work, so it's important to see the context here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e449	The Council of State stresses the importance of following up the sick. It is also important, perhaps especially, to follow up young people who are unemployed in order to get back to work. I have an example, with a question I asked the Council of State: A young pastor of 26 years had unfortunately become allergic to flour and water. He was in the middle of an infirmary and asked for re-schooling. He didn't get that at Nav's. The answer I received from the Council of State was that he could only relate to Nav. He could take a job as a telephone salesman. That's the offer you give to young people who have taken a vocational education and who don't get a new chance in life. They also do not have a new opportunity to study, because they have used up their schooling opportunities. I hope that the Council of State also looks at the cases where young people get sick and have to go into other work, that they must not relate to those answers from Nav in the future. Then I took the word to get into the Dutch system, which Gullvåg also had in mind. As usual, Gullvåg only takes out single pieces of what is presented – the pieces that suit the Working Party very well. What was underlined in the Netherlands was that it is not useful to take a few pieces, here you had to take the whole package to make it work. And taking the whole package means, among other things. that the employer pays sick pay for two years. They have a health pay scheme that is even better than the Norwegian one – a two-year sick pay scheme, which we should also look after – a health pay scheme that will be absolutely necessary for many. But what he forgot to say was that the doctors didn't report disease. There is no such thing as a search message. It is the company doctor, The Company Doctor, who decides how long, and whether, the employee should be home from work. It's an essential part, and the forgotten Gullvåg. It was also found that workers who did not follow up the occupational health service said were not receiving sick pay. It's also an essential thing. So you have to take the whole package. If you do that, you might get the result in the Netherlands, where sick leave was halved in eight years, and where disability was reduced by 70 pst. These steps don't want to take here yet, but you might have to look a little bit towards what you've done in the Netherlands, not just pick from one side, but see what can work together. There is no doubt that very many people are dissatisfied without being unemployed. We also heard that in Agder, where the local labour market means a lot to whether or not the individual comes to work. It is therefore not necessarily the health situation of the individual, but the labour market. There's a lot of hidden leisure. It would be better if they could rework new jobs, or get to a place where they got a job. Because they're not necessarily too sick to work. Here we have something we have to work on, because it makes no sense that as many as today go home and are not in working life when they are in working age.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e460	What this matter is essentially about is what the Council of State said, namely to establish a good follow-up culture for the sick, both at the doctor, at the workplace and in Nav. That's what this is about, much more than about different types of penalties or exactly which week you're going to attend a meeting. I think the last post we heard from the Progress Party here is an example of how to kick in all directions and not quite know what you want. First comes an example of a person who is assigned to a job, but who is not going to take it, and then at the end comes an article that's completely opposite, and then it's also completely wrong. The problem is that we actually have to have a working life that also accepts people with health problems. If you're looking at good examples, Mandal municipality is such an example. In that municipality, where the Progress Party has the rapporteur, people are allowed to report sick for a whole year, and they have had sick leave. It is about good follow-up culture – nothing else – and an employer who is willing to organize, so that people can actually be at work even if they are a little ill. It's not like that everywhere. When I have been asked several times whether it is too easy to get a medical report, I say: Yes, it is too easy to get a medical report and just get a prescription, and not get a good follow-up either from a doctor, from a Nav or from an employer. Such follow-up I hope we can now begin to establish. So I think it's interesting that the right-hand side now releases the cats out of the bag and says that they actually want to do something about the sickness pay scheme. But what's perhaps a little more strange is the post from the Right, where you first suggest that doctors' use of standardised medical messages is a problem. At the same time, they refer to Sweden, where it is precisely the system that has been put in place. Well, they've probably had their sick leave down a little, but they've also had a lot more people out of work and on social assistance. To put it this way, there won't be any more healthy people by getting even more on social assistance. So I think that the system we have to keep is that it's these dialogue meetings that are going to decide how to proceed, related to the individual, and not related to a special diagnosis that requires so and so many weeks of medical attention, because it can be completely different from the individual to the individual and from the workplace to the workplace whether it's possible to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e469	I just want to comment briefly on Robert Eriksson's contributions concerning young people with mental disorders, and work. I think it is very important that we are also very clear to this group that the follow-up should take place within the ordinary system, which we are now establishing in connection with the follow-up of sick leave. Among other things, mentioned that in some cases it is not good for them to be at work, because the job may be the problem. We know that large parts of the growth in sick leave are just mental illness, and I think that if we say that the most important thing is to establish something outside the workplace for those groups, it can carry the wrong place. That doesn't mean that I don't think it's sometimes important, but if there's something about the workplace that makes you unable to work there, we have to do something about the workplace. That's one of the things we're trying to do right now, just because all of these different groups are going to work together. I think that's very basic to bring with me. So to this that I have been talking about a little earlier, that applies to sick people without employers. I have asked them to look at that group separately in a newsletter for Nav. But as I said, I'm going to come back to how Nav actually follows up this. But Nav is looking at it. The Proba report on the misuse of medical money also occupied me very much. I'm very concerned about that problem. I think we have to be aware that the numbers that have come out there, probably aren't numbers you're going to put three lines below because it's an assumption of what Nav employees would think. But I'm going to take specific measures related to this, because this is very important. At the very end of the sanctions, which the representative Andersen was also involved in. It's about making a follow-up culture. No one in the room has been concerned about this, but I am very concerned about this, so I will be allowed to say this. I am concerned that we must be quite clear about getting good practice on these sanctions. It must be perceived as just and fair, and it must be felt that they are being practiced in the same way in the country. That is why we are going to establish a place that follows up the individual decisions, so that there are no different practices on this. There will be separate guidelines on how to apply these sanctions. For it is absolutely essential that it is not the good will but the difficult conditions that are to be punished. It is the lack of culture to follow up, and the lack of responsibility for being a nurse, for being sick and for being an employer. Finally, someone has asked: What about Nav, when Nav doesn't do his job? I think we all who have heard the debate lately, and who read the National Audit Office's reports, know that Nav gets a message when they don't do their job. Starting to impose financial penalties on a public agency, I think I'm going to be the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e484	In the debate on sick leave, I have heard many articles from the right. Many of the contributions – most of those made by Kristin Clemet – have been about work ethic. They are workers who are ‘going sick’, and they are concerned with medical medical practice in the sense that they are treating people who want to be ill-diagnosed, meaning that there is no basis for it. This is also a debate on morality. Now I understand that the representative of the Red Isaac does not endorse this debate. I noted that the committee chairman, Robert Eriksson, also did not accept any such views. But what is it when they think that they want greater incentives for both the employer and the employee not to get sick as often as they do, i.e. to reduce sick leave? What kind of action do they want, if it is not to increase the employer's period, if it is not to tighten current practice? I think they have to explain what they really mean, if there are other things than this that they reflect on. For my part, I want to state that today's sick pay system stands and falls with the bulk of the population after the 2013 elections. A government based in the Right and the Advance Party will change the health pay scheme, just like in Sweden. They will amend the Working Environment Act with the consequence that the tripartite cooperation underpinning the IA Agreement will then cease. It is the message given today by the right parties to the employee organisations, to the employers and not least to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e491	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 4410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e507	The matter is about pensions given directly from the state treasury, and it is a unanimous attitude. But I just want to stress that the committee unanimously now says that alternative solutions should be considered for these groups, and that we expect the government to follow it up in a good way in the future, so that we can get a slightly different and a little bit more transparent system than what we have today. It's not big sums we're talking about. It's reasonable that these people get a pension, but the system is a little bit inconclusive today. Therefore, I am pleased that the signals we have received from the government are that it wants to follow this recommendation from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e528	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Anette Trettebergstuen. The President assumes that Mrs Trettebergstien is making representations to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e539	That's right, President. The Labour and Social Committee has worked relatively hard with dogs in recent years. We all know that the dog is man's best friend, and I'd like to say a little weird, but also a little serious, that the labour and social committee must be the service dog's best friend. We all know that there is research medical evidence of the effect of dogs on people – against loneliness, against depression and anxiety, or against obesity. We have all visited Senate posts in hospitals where visiting dogs are of great pleasure to the patients. We have assistance dogs, we have guide dogs for the blind and the weak, of course, and we have the service dogs that contribute to increasing the quality of life for people. It is therefore no wonder that the entire committee and all the parties engaged and set up to get the service dog project on rails as it was in difficulty in terms of both funding and evaluation. The Committee has committed itself so strongly that we have actually approached the level of case handlers. The opposition has taken a full step and has entered into the responsibility of the executive. The proponents of the Progress Party have already evaluated the usefulness of the Service Dog project and have carried out a legal assessment of whether this scheme should fall within the support rules of the People's Security Act. The right and Christian People's Party has relied on the evaluations and professional assessments of the Progress Party, while from the government parties we want to deal with the planned course, that a professional evaluation is carried out as soon as possible, and that it is then assessed in a normal and sound manner. We are pleased that the service dog project is now well organised, and that the Minister of Labour will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, as it is called, with such an assessment of the scheme. We're also very pleased that in the revision it's proposed 3 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The funds will be transferred to Norway’s Blind Alliance, which has the necessary professional competence in this area and which also has experience in the financing of assistance dogs. With regard to this proposal for a representative, we therefore propose that it be annexed to the Minutes. Of course, we will not reject the proposal, and there is a great chance that the position and opposition will reach the same conclusion in terms of evaluation and legal evaluation. But we don't want to break down with the usual division of labour between big business and government, or assume to be an evaluating body, even though we all in the committee obviously see the positive effects of the service dog project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e554	The service dog case has attracted a lot of attention, and it has also taken a lot of attention in the committee. All the parties have promised a lot, all the parties have shown a great deal of understanding of how useful the dogs are to the users, but the opposition is becoming quite impatient, because it's happening very little. Norway is not a precursor country. Service dog is common in the Netherlands, Sweden, USA, and we also heard when we were down there that it was common in Spain. In the period 2001–06, two projects were launched using funds from the Health and Rehabilitation Foundation. 27 dogs got users, and they've worked very well. The evaluation has been carried out on behalf of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Two project reports have also been prepared from the service dog projects, one of Norway’s Blind Federation’s guide dog schools, and Norway’s Handicap Association East has developed the Service Dog for disabled people in 2004–2006. The reports contain experience of the use of service dogs. There is also a Dutch survey from 2006 which has been translated into Norwegian: ‘Societal dividends from the Auxiliary Dog Netherlands Foundation’. A qualitative and quantitative study is both about the experiences of users and about the cost effects of the scheme. The survey identifies the social benefit. There are also reports from two Swedish attempts at rehabilitation dogs. In the Swedish trials, the focus has been on the psychosocial effect of having a dog and less on the practical assistance provided by dogs. This year, too, funding was granted for the project, which was not started last year and which was not started in the previous year. The reason for this was a lack of users despite the fact that there were 60–70 users who wanted a dog when the project was started. You might wonder why it's taken so long to get this project started. Another thing is what the project will have to say, with so little users over so short a period of time. It will also have limited significance what you get out of that project. I think it needs to be continuously evaluated and that adjustments have to be made along the way. As the Committee has pointed out, there has been considerable uncertainty about the replacement of dogs for today’s users. The dogs have become too old, and no new dogs have been bred or trained to take over the role. Why this case is trained, I do not know, but I suspect that there is a way to try to save some money. The user's life situation may change dramatically if the users do not get new dogs in time. Even the $3 million. kr granted in the year's budget is not enough for new acquisitions for the eleven dogs who retire this year. There are also five dogs next year that have to go off because of age, and that work overtime. They are no longer able to fill their roles, nor is it permitted under the Animal Protection Act to allow dogs to work that way at such an age. This creates great unforeseeableness, and we think it is important now to design good criteria for the scheme so that the users who actually benefit from the scheme can get it, and can enjoy and benefit from such a dog. We know that many users have increased their jobs, others who were not working have come to work. One has said that she would be in an institution if it had not been for the dog, and the dog provides security and contributes to mental well-being. It increases the experience of mastering and independence, and it gives an experience of freedom. The Progress Party considers that it is clearly demonstrated that the service dog scheme has such positive consequences for users that the scheme should be established and financed through public security. We have seen that too many users have contributed to improved quality of life, and we believe that this should be the basis for implementing such a scheme. Our patience is over. We think of those users who every day worry about what happens if they don't have a dog anymore. We know, according to surveys in countries where this has been introduced in line with assistance systems, that there is about as much need for this type of dog as it is for assistance dogs for the blind. It is therefore high time to introduce this system into our society where we say that we should have more back to work, and that we should make disabled people equal to people with disabilities so that they can live their lives in the best possible way. This is a good way to do it. I am therefore pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party are also involved in the proposal. I address the proposal in the case on behalf of the three parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e575	The representative of Vigdis Giltun, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e578	For the Right, it's important to give the individual a chance to evolve with all his abilities. It shall facilitate a society with opportunities for all, where everyone has the freedom to live independently, and where everyone who falls outside is given a chance. The welfare state should not be all for everyone, but must be strong for those who need help, and there are those who need a little bit more to get the same amount. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that everyone who can work should work, and experience the freedom it gives to be self-sustaining. And those who can't work, for example. due to PRM or other handicaps, shall have the opportunity to live as free and independent a life as possible. Therefore, the Right proposal on equality between service dogs and guide dogs supports. Service dogs for persons with reduced physical mobility could be essential for their function, both in working life and in their daily lives. Service dogs should be able to be admitted as appropriate and necessary facilities in the same way as guide dogs for blind and partially sighted. It is not a matter of this being said that anyone who is somehow PRM will automatically be entitled to a service dog. The proposal means that those who, by means of a service dog, are able to cope significantly better in their everyday lives will have better quality of life and that those who, by means of a service dog, may be part of the working life will be able to do so. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the government parties cannot support this proposal now, but must wait for further evaluation. Although the department is running a trial project, this is not enough. It's going to be late, and users' impatience is understandable. A project under the auspices of the Blind Federation, and every time Norway's Handicap Federation, which started in 2000, trained in a few years – as the Council of State writes in the letter to the Committee – 29 service dogs. It has worked well for the users. In comparison, money has been allocated for several years to a trial project by the Ministry of Labour, which is still not up and going. One might wonder if such examples cannot make the red-greens question their allergy to private participation in the care sector, but there may be too much to ask for. We know that service dogs are an effective tool because of the experience gained from the testing schemes through the Blind Association and the Norwegian Handicap Association. To take an example from my own county: in the disability news earlier this year we could read about the soon ten-year-old service dog Elida who had helped the traffic-damaged Kathrine handle everyday life. In addition to helping Kathrine with all sorts of small tasks, she can make sure that Kathrine, who has problems controlling the joints, has his head in the right position, and Elida can alert the helper if necessary. Service dogs are a good and simple measure that improves people's everyday lives. It's sad that the government parties don't already, today, recognize and recognize this and vote to integrate the system into the popular order, as it is both in the Netherlands and in England. Then you can – and we agree – have a continuous and ongoing evaluation. The large social division in Norway is about whether you are at work or not. That is why we believe that the overall objective of labour and social policy is to help people who can experience the security of having a gainful job to do. Too many people of working age are out of work today, and there we have to contribute to the measures that we can. Service dogs are a concrete, effective action to help an important group out into work. Although it may not be so many, it is of great importance to those concerned, and in many cases it is crucial that people can have a decent life and go out to work or not. The right will enable disabled people to live decent and independent lives with permanent and predictable means, such as: service dog. That is why we support the proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e599	There has been a tumultuous cross-political agreement at Stortinget that we are going to start a public trial with a service dog. It's taken too much time – I'm going to be the first to say it – but now it's going on. And when the representative Giltun says nothing is happening, I say, well, something is happening now. But I'll probably ask the Council of State to notice the heavy cross-political commitment it is in this case, so that the attempt that is now under way must be taken with the greatest seriousness, because I think there's a rushing consensus that the service dog can be a very good tool. It shows the attempt that has been under the control of health and rehabilitation, and that started the debate, even though there have been arrangements in other countries, which several of us have also seen before. I think this is about – as many have said – maritime tenacity, i.e. equality and maritime tenacity in their own lives. It's about participation in society. It's about both experience and real security for people with disabilities, and it's also about job opportunities. Sometimes it may also be about reducing the need for other help services, sail if I think this is more about a type of help than a help service. Not least, I am convinced that the service dog for some is a significant contribution to improving the quality of life. And it is a policy objective that we should be able to contribute to an increase in the quality of life for many. I am probably among those who are convinced that a service dog will be an aid, and that it will be a good addition to other kinds of aids in the portfolio in the years to come – and that despite the fact that I am probably not one of those who would use such a tool, because I am so afraid of dogs. But I have experienced and seen how these service dogs actually work in practice. There are few other tools I've seen, which have been able to compete with this, as well as that very many people have a completely different experience than me; for they have a very high level of protection and a very socially very positive relationship with having a dog. So Stortinget has great expectations of the project that is now under way. That it is followed up very closely from political leadership, I assume, as this case has had a long history, as several before me have mentioned. So there is a great political interest in the Storting, a great cross-political, unanimous interest, in this project, precisely because the Stortinget has also unanimously passed laws on accessibility and discrimination against people with disabilities. The whole political base for that is to be equal with regard to participation in all areas of society and life. If you want to achieve that, I think the service dog must be part of the portfolio we have in terms of aids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e610	Service dogs, the thing we're dealing with today, are a butcher, a repeater in the committee. But during the proceedings I noticed that it is not only in this committee it is a repetition, for both the previous representative of the Christian People's Party in the Committee and also the representative who put on the Stortinge during the period before that, has been very concerned about the matter and contacted me. It shows that there are many who want to help the people involved. There are also many who are impatient after things happen. But it's really very sad, because we've been going through the matter so many times, and it should have been settled a long time ago, because, as many people have been about, it's just about quality of life, it's about improving the everyday lives of those people who need help, and it's about being able to help themselves. Today, the training of dogs to perform certain tasks is well accepted as an aid, for example: in the case of smelling or locating drugs, explosives, etc., and a ‘other’ in the case of special dogs, both in the field of justice and defence. But the opportunities to train dogs are many, and then the goal must also be to be able to use dogs to help people get an even better life. And that's exactly what this is all about. Service dog is a kind of generic term for dogs that have been specially trained to perform one or more useful tasks for it – or they – the person it serves with, for example. to help disabled people with opening doors, carrying a purse or, for example: alert and subdued falls for someone who has epilepsy. A service dog may also have completely therapeutic tasks. The need for service dogs is great, also in Norway. In the United States, they are said to have had service dogs for over 30 years, and in Sweden, breeding and training of that type of dog is for the longest time well established. Training of service dogs can seem to be effective in Norway, although the need is great. For one, it should be remembered that from 2001 to 2006, two projects were funded under the auspices of the Norwegian Blind Federation and the Norwegian Handicap Federation. During the project period, 29 dogs were allocated, while 60–70 applicants did not receive a dog. It shows a little that the need is great, and the need is even greater – in addition to those who have now received a dog. The dog is man's best friend, and for some, the dog may be the most important friend they have. These people should have their situation clarified, and we should have been working on a proper training scheme long ago and had confidence that new dogs will be trained. Christian People's Party expects the government now to ensure that this happens, cf. the posts of their representatives here in the Chamber today and also earlier. One thing is that it's kind, and that there's a cross-political majority behind it. Something else is that it's actually being followed up. It expects the Christian People's Party to happen, so that we get equal funding for guide dogs and service dogs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e627	Service dogs have been a topic that has created a lot of debate and commitment both in the political space and in the media. The proposers want a permanent arrangement funded by popularism – similar guide dogs for the blind. More specifically, this means that service dogs, if appropriate for working and daily life, are given to persons with physical mobility. A majority of the Labour and Social Committee asked the government in the autumn of 2008 to launch a public service dog trial. Regrettably, recruiting users has proved to be arduous. The joy is that it is now time for a start-up in 2011. The government has given priority to this work, and has decided to strengthen the budget by a further 5 million. kr. The majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs requested, in the context of the review of the 2011 budget, that the funds transferred from 2010 be used as replacement funds for the persons participating in the two previous service dog projects. The Ministry now proposes that the Norwegian Blind Alliance be given responsibility for the award of replacement dogs within a framework of equivalent 3 million. kr. A necessary redisposal has been proposed to ensure this in the revised national budget. I understand that service dog users feel that the dogs supply a lot of food every day. Although projects with a service dog have been carried out on an experimental basis by disabled people’s organisations since 2001, there has been no public offer until now. The conditions of the Social Security Act express a legal standard which includes, inter alia: in this case, the service dog system must be an appropriate way of solving the problems of users in working or everyday life. The requirements of the law mean that in this case the task cannot be satisfactorily solved in other and more reasonable ways than through service dogs. It is important to bear in mind that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and the Social and Health Directorate at that time felt that the previous tests on service dogs did not provide sufficient indications of utility and needs. They concluded that there should not be a permanent scheme for public-resource-funded service dogs. In sum, I believe that there is still a need for clearer evidence of the useful value of the dogs. The first step is that the current experiment needs to be carried out and the scheme needs to be carefully evaluated. I want to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with an overall assessment of whether service dogs should be financed by the public. I also understand that this is in line with what the majority of the committee supports. I would like to end by saying that I hear what comes out in this debate, and that this is something that a unified committee is very concerned about. I take it with me as a very clear starting point for starting the further work on this pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e650	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e653	What is the opinion of the State Council that the new project should provide answers that have not been provided in the previous studies and evaluations? And what does the Council of State say to the three who don't get to renew their dogs this year? Three million. kr is only enough to eight of the eleven dogs. I could also imagine hearing what she has to say to the five that must have a dog to the next year. With the unforeseeableness that we're still going to have, it has to be used all the time, which is most uncertain if it comes. Then I wonder if the government can assure these users that they get new dogs. This is especially important in terms of training the dogs. It takes six to ten months to train the dogs and also find the ones that are properly bred. It is very important that the Council of State now decides whether the users who have a dog today will get a new dog – all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e659	For the evaluation: although this has been in progress since 2001, there is no consistent and unambiguous evidence that this satisfies the basic principle of the Law on Social Security to make it a permanent scheme. So now you have given money and put in place a trial plan. We believe it is important to see the whole of this trial scheme. There has been a problem at all to get people to start this project. It's also in place. You may not have worked well enough, but now this is in place. It's important before doing anything more in order to get this as a permanent arrangement. So it's set of 3 million. kr, to be handled by the Blind Alliance, related to replacement dogs. Now it is the Blind Alliance, based on application and follow-up, to find out who it is to have this, and there will be, if necessary, a budgetary matter for the next year relating to whether there are any more to have replacement dogs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e668	I would like a clear answer to the three users who obviously won't get a dog this year. Three million. kr is now set off, and as I can see, it is not set by anything more in the revised budget by the government. That is, three of the eleven users who now have too old dogs, don't get a dog this year. Is it true that they won't get any new dog? Is it also true that the Council of State will leave a completely open question as to whether there will be funds for some new dogs in next year's budget, so that there is no need to start training, and that the users who are today are being phased out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e673	It is not that I can now go in and process the claim for damages to NOK 500000 to users. It is now set for the Norwegian Blind Alliance to do so. In the case of eleven people who have had it in the past, it may well be that, in the opinion of the Blind Alliance, there are eleven people who should also legally have a replacement dog. But now we've done 3 million. NOK to this. This is a budget provision, and then it's the Blind Alliance that is now going to go in and allocate this to those who want and ask for a replacement dog, and assess their needs. But you don't get any guarantee from me here and now that they and the people who have had a replacement dog get this from the current year. We've made use of those means, and we believe that the Blind Alliance is now going to make an assessment of who, in the next round, qualifies to get a replacement dog.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e678	At the beginning of the debate on the matter today, Anette Trettebergstuen said that we moved almost illegally far into the proceedings in the event of our impatience. Next, the representative said that we see all the obvious benefits of the service dog project. The representative, Andersen, also from the red-green government side, said that there is a ‘thundering consensus’ in the Stortinget, and that it has taken far too long. She almost asked the Council of State to press this experiment further, and concluded that such a dog is a significant contribution to improving quality of life. I could not agree more. But there are two other representatives here who have used the word ‘trenet’, and it is quite close to me when I think about the case complex. How long does the Council of State think it is necessary to continue working on this matter before it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e685	I can assure you that I have been concerned about this matter since I started working with it. We've got a total of 8 million. kr in the year’s budget to follow-up. I am also concerned that we are constantly going to spend the community's money in the absolutely most reasonable way – in the way that ensures the individual user who needs it, the absolute best follow-up. I have been concerned that we need to stack a good project on our legs. It's been shown to take time. I don't want to speculate on the reasons, but at least we've made sure that project is on its feet now. And then I think it's wise, based on the experience you have, to give yourself an evaluation of that project before you go to the step of saying that this is an equal system of blind dogs, and that it gets that role in relation to the law of popular protection. But as I have also said, I see that this has a great interest, and that it is a broad cross-political desire for such a system. However, I absolutely need – and believe it is right – to carry out an evaluation of a comprehensive project, given that this has been achieved since 2001 and has not received a consistent and unambiguous feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e694	I have heard what the council says, and she has also written it in the letter to the committee. I was just looking for an answer to the simple question: How long does the Council of State think it will take before we get this evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e699	Now we have to get this pilot project up and running, and we're going to get it in 2011. So I want to get back to just how long you need to project before you have a reasonable evaluation. I do not have a clear answer to that now. We have to look at how many users we get, and how this is going to stand up as fast as possible. Now, when you get a project with a good number of people, I'm a little surprised that it's so important – before you get the evaluation of this – to get this fucked up as a principle in this way in the People's Security Act. I'm a little surprised about that – especially given that there's no doubt that you feel like having that kind of dog is a good thing. No one disagrees. But the question is, before a proper evaluation is made: is this system that you want to do permanently, and spend that kind of money on, before you have seen how this will work in relation to other types of schemes? I repeat myself – I know – but others have also done so in this debate. It is allowed to wait for an evaluation. That's wise and proper, I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e708	I allow myself to wonder if the Council of State has read the other evaluations that have been carried out, both in Norway and elsewhere, when she is so concerned that a new evaluation and a new project need to be made. And then I can answer the Council of State why it's so important to get this as a system now, and not wait for years more, as we probably have to do: Point one: It is important that those users who have dogs should be safe new dogs when the dogs reach retirement age — not when the Blind Alliance thinks they need a new dog, but when the dogs reach retirement age. It is also not the Blind League that necessarily has to sit and decide each one – who should not get a dog, of those who have it today. It is very important to put in place a system for breeding and training dogs for the purpose. It cannot be waited for many years to maintain competence and to continue and continue the system in the current situation of these users. Don't the Council of State understand that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e719	I am absolutely sure that there are a lot of good reasons why those who have replacement dogs today should have a clear assurance that they will get it in the future, and that you should have good systems where this is open to everyone who needs it. My job is also always to make an assessment of how we spend the community's money on this in the best possible way, and what is the best option for them. In this context, I believe that an evaluation of the scheme needs to be made. And yes, I've looked at the evaluations, and they're not unique. It has also not been a clear public project. There have been a lot of different actors inside. I repeat to myself: it is clear that this is a very good arrangement, but it is not that all good arrangements are to be incorporated into the People's Security Act, and that you can say that from now on this is something that applies to everyone. We need to make some assessments and priorities. I am in favour of this scheme, but I am also concerned that we should have a proper evaluation of the scheme before drawing the final conclusion on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e728	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e746	This is an EEA Committee decision, which we in Norway have to decide, and I assume it will not lead to very large discussions. It is such that rules for air transport insurance have existed for a long time. As early as 1929, we got what is called the Warsaw Convention, which introduced uniform rules on international air transport – as early as 1929. Later we have had a few other protocols, a Hague protocol, and that has been one more. But the most important one is the 1999 Montreal Convention, and it has now had a change of responsibilities. This has led us to make a change to the legislation here. The limits of liability were amended on 28 May 1999, which has led to the inclusion of this in Norwegian law as well. The major change – it is not so big in itself – is that insurance should cover liability and damage caused also during acts of war, during terrorism, during hijacking, sabotage, illegal seizure of aircraft and civil unrest. It's a rather extended liability case. In the Committee we have had a relatively similar view of this matter. As it also intervenes in other areas, the matter has been referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and by letter of 27 April 2011 «the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee shall conclude the appointment of Prop by the Committee on Transport and Communications. 76 S and have no further comments’. [[2010-2011]] The Committee shall have a unanimous vote, which shall refer to the proposal and the observations and shall recommend to the Council the adoption of such a decision: ‘The decision consents to the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 123/2010 of 10 November 2010 incorporating Regulation No into the EEA Agreement 285/2010 on insurance requirements for air carriers and aircraft operators.’;» [[EU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e779	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e788	This is a matter of financing and repairing fv. 34 between Grime and Vesleelva in the south country of Uppland. In the past, this project was considered a phase 2 for the development of RVs. 4, but the Committee agrees with the government's assessment that the matter is now being dealt with as a separate project. The project is referred to in the National Road Action Programme of Uppland County Municipality, which is designed to improve this parcel as a partially toll-funded project starting from the 2010–2013 programming period. The parcel between Grime and Vesleelva is well and well 10 km long. It is narrow and swinging and has poor road foundations. The stretch has also been subject to accidents, and there have been 14 accidents in the last ten years. It has unfortunately gone with one life, and three have been severely damaged. So this is also a good traffic safety project. The project involves the improvement of the road to the road of two-field roads with a width of 7,5 metres. 7,1 km new walk and cycle path will be built along the road. Furthermore, 34 bus pockets will be repaired and 120 dwellings will have new and more traffic-proof access to the road. Noise protection will also be carried out. The project is expected to provide improved progeny, and thus also reduce accident risk. Converted to 2011 kroner, the estimate of costs is now adjusted up to 139 million. kr. Now it is the case that in these cases it is primarily the financing arrangement we are going to deal with, and – if I may add – in this case despite the fact that the state does not contribute directly to the financing at all. However, the proposal for a financial plan proposes a base of 92 million. NOK in county funds and SEK 101 million. kr in tolls. Construction work is scheduled to start in 2011 with completion in 2013. In 2011, it was also assumed that the county contributed 30 million. kr, and that the tolling company makes 15 million available. kr. The bombing station is assumed to be located south on the route to be repaired, just south of the intersection with fv. 138. There has been a lot back and forth about the toll arrangement, but now you are assembled behind the present arrangement with the small disagreement from the municipality of Gran about the actual location. The financing facility is based on two-way collection using an automatic toll station set up when the facility is opened to service. The Committee notes that Oppland County has decided to provide a guarantee to enable the tolling company to raise loans of up to 116 million. kr, thereby making the financing as reasonable as possible. With the underlying assumptions, the project will be disbursed in 15 years. The majority have noticed that there is a large local political consensus on this financing arrangement, and therefore we support this matter. This is a good case for traffic safety. It is a good cause for quality of life for the many who live along this road, and of course also for the emergence along the Randsfjord. We who decide on the project here today should also send a thank-you in this project to road users who take the extra burden of part-financing a public road with tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e809	The Workers' Party is a member of the majority of the Committee which joins the Ministry's proposal on financing for the improvement of FOV. 34 on the section Grime-Vesleelva in Søndre Land municipality in Oppland. This route is currently narrow and fluctuated and has a poor road foundation and many runs. In addition, the road acts as both local and transit routes. This means that today’s road creates problems in terms of accessibility and road safety. The distance is 10.3 km. The project involves the improvement of the road to 7,5 metres of the two-field road. Roads will also be built for walking and cycling, improvements in bus pockets, better access for roadside dwellings and noise protection measures for some dwellings. In addition, one will take into account the cultural landscape in the construction of a new road. The Workers' Party supports the local and regional initiative in this matter and looks forward to a more prosperous and roadworthy Fv. 34 on the Grime-Wesleelva route, for the joy and benefit of both drivers and vulnerable road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e820	Sending thanks to the road users when they are forced to charge additional transport taxes is becoming a bit politically tedious! They're not asked. It is good to build a new and safe road, but it is not good to build it with toll financing. With this case, Stortinget has had another case about toll financing. In the last period, 2005–09, there were many such cases. Not least there was a big bill for the drivers, with a small and large 90 billion. SEK in investment and operating grants, 68 billion. DKK in toll contributions and 13 billion. NOK in interest and collection costs, payable by the drivers. In total, with the approval of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, there will be a bill for the 80 bn drivers. kr. It continues during this period: with this case, with the next case, which concerns rv. 2, with Prop. 124 S Fozenpaket, which comes into the Storting a little bit later, and with Prop. 131 See the east fold, which came last week. Then the bill in this period is going to be that far, and it's about halfway, 19 billion. SEK in investment, with nearly 11 billion. kr in tolls. In addition, the drivers are required to pay 7 billion. kr for interest and collection. So, in total, with the approval of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it becomes a bill for the drivers of almost 18 billion. kr, henimot 19 br. kr. The Progress Party does not support funding by tolls, whether in terms of national road, county road or municipal road. We underline that road infrastructure should and should be financed by road owners, which are essentially public authorities. In particular, I recall that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, both county roads and large sections of the county road network should be financed by state resources. The Progress Party wants to reverse the administrative reform, and I recall that the State budget for 2011 shows that by the end of 2010, the oil fund was well over 3 000 billion. kr. Just investing in good roads in one’s own country is also a proper and sensible disposal of oil money from a generation perspective. New, good roads last 50–70 years. Modernisation of the Norwegian road network, as proposed by the Progress Party in the Progress Party's alternative national transport plan, will therefore be an investment for future generations. The use of toll financing is considered by the Progress Party to be a completely unnecessary extra tax on transport. We are therefore proposing state funding. Toll financing is a particularly expensive form of financing. In this particular case too, the bill for the drivers by paying tolls is significantly greater than the toll contribution for the project of 101 million. NOK 193 million in total. kr. The drivers also have to pay interest costs of 82 million. NOK 45 million and collection costs. kr. The total toll collection is therefore at least 228 million. kr for a project it will cost 193 million. to build. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport dated 5 May, it appears that the road traffic forecast for Uppland is used as a basis for traffic growth and that the chosen two-field road width of 7.5 metres, according to the Ministry of Transport's opinion, will provide good capacity for this route for many years to come. This justifies the road width of 7,5 metres and not 8,5 metres. According to the information contained in the same letter, road width increases by 1 metre between 30 and 40 million. kr, and the Ministry therefore concludes that such extended dimensioning would not be socially sound. We have doubts about this, but we recognize old political clothes in new packaging: ‘We need to ensure that we do not overinvest in road standards’. I allow myself to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. We want to build a new and wider road, and we want to build a road without tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e839	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e842	There is a lot of important road work going on across the country these days. Here it is to be paved, here other maintenance is to be done, here it is to be improved, and here it is also to be built a lot of new roads. It is such that all those going out and out need to be updated – if not possible, a few unexpected surprises in the process. Today's case applies to fv. Thirty-four. Plant start-up will take place now in 2011, with completion in 2013. Locally, there is a scheme and a request for a repair of the road between Grime and Vesleelva, for it to be carried out as a toll project, and for it to be extended independently of Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox So this is the road that runs on the east side of Randsfjorden, between the Jaren in the municipality of Gran and Svingvoll in the municipality of Søndre Land. It's a narrow and curved road, with a bad foundation and a road width of between 5.5 and 7 meters. The road goes into an agricultural and forestry area and is a local and transit route. The road has many exits, and the dwellings are partly close to the road with direct access. It creates problems both for road safety and for emerging circumstances. It has, as the case-speaker here has done well for, over a decade, been 14 injuries to persons on the route – a death accident, and three people were severely injured. It's 10.3 km, and a road that's planned to be 7.5 meters wide, where it's usually going to be 80 km/h. There will be 7.1 km of new walking and cycling roads – and not two, but 34 bus pockets will be improved. It says of itself that there will be a significant improvement along the east side of Randsfjorden. 120 dwellings are given new and safer access, and noise protection is set up for 80 dwellings. So the question is, what makes this possible? The economy is doing well in the proposition, but let me say: it's the local commitment that makes this road ready for construction today, with both county funds and tolls, and that's because we can initiate so many projects in total over a year, and at the same time take care of the Norwegian economy. There is a local commitment to produce a project based, in whole or in part, on tolls. So here's the discussion about where the collection is going to be. Not all of us are happy with it, but now it's accepted, so you can get started. Then Arne Sortevik says that the traffic lights are not asked. I can't stand for such a claim. It is likely that local traffickers have taken initiatives here, and local and regional populaces have, of course, had contact with their own people – and those who drive cars. Thank you to the Committee for a quick examination. I would like to congratulate both the municipality and the county council on this decision. The new highway will provide greater security and good prospects for all those who live and travel in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e869	What the Minister of Transport likes to describe as local measures and local involvement, others experience as central blackmail — blackmail from central authorities because there is some form of rationing on state resources, from the rich state. Don't think the government council will be very expensive for those who are going to contribute, when the bill for adding 100 million. kr in this specific project is actually going to be over twice that you almost have to pay 230 million. Total kr? Then there's also a question about building a new road that holds for the future. That's why the Progress Party has asked a lot of questions to the chosen width of the road, and this one meter, that's to go from a fairly careful extension to adding an extra meter. What's socially irresponsible about building another meter when you first build a safe new road?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e878	There's a cost associated with borrowing -- that's what it is. It is also in this context, as in other areas of life. Taking up a loan costs money. I choose here to go for the solution that local authorities have initiated. So what they need is to get a more safe and efficient road. Then there's a question of how wide this road should be for the future. I assume here that there are already major errors on our road network across the country. When the authorities here can go well for a 7.5 meter wide road, I don't see any reason to try it out. Here, it's based on prognosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e886	I fully agree with the government's good words about such a good project, with both strong local affiliations and a desire to do so. But I have a question about getting a lot of projects with user funding. I think user funding is a good tool for this type of project. But it's true to see the wholeness of the many user-funded projects we get. The Council of State assesses the need for a holistic approach to user funding, including: to the Storting, where we now look at the soundness of this? For it is a good tool, which Stortinget and the Committee have chosen to use a significant part. I'm glad. But there's a need to see this in a whole world, not just in pieces, like us. gets it in the Storting during the day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e895	We are working on a new national transport plan. There is, of course, discussion of different forms of funding in the light of the need. Now, the plan we're basing today has an increase of 100 billion. Total DKK – or 322 billion. kr for both road and track, ports and fairways. And of the different projects that are now in turn coming to Stortinget, most of them are mentioned in the plan we are now following. Earlier this year, the Storting presented itself with a case of a gallant advance. It also has to do with the many toll projects. I think it's natural that we're looking at the amount of money that's now going to be tolls. But I think it's good with that combination, because it triggers several projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e900	I realized that it has been a heavy fall for the chest that I thanked the road users. I think it's in its place. In fact, I think it's also in place to thank the county council, which is creative and finds out a good setup. My question goes in that direction. This is a county road, and the county municipality is responsible. Nevertheless, the Stortinget deals with the financing arrangement – I am well aware that it is part of the Constitution that we have to deal with arrangements that go in the direction of taxes for the inhabitants. But can the Council of State imagine a decoration of this, or a generalization of it, so that in the future we will not deal with all county roads that have a toll in them, here — for example. for the rolling of NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e907	Thanks to this, the lawyer can also take up his part of this thank you. It has been a particularly rapid and tidy procedure, both from the point of view of the President and from the point of view of the Committee, which has led to the benefit of road users in the past. So to the question, there might seem something curious that a county municipality can build schools for billions of dollars, but can't start a toll project without it being treated here in Stortinget. Halleraker has raised a question, and there is a question I want to come back to. There may be reasons to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e914	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e919	From the point of view of a socialist, even with the eyes of the Right and the Christian People's Party for that matter, it has become culture that all roads should be funded by car. From the point of view of the Progress Party, this is unculture. Also in this case, financing and remedying fv. 34 on the Grime-Vesleelva route, ask local politicians for road toll financing. They probably don't because they want to, but because they feel they have to. It says in the case that there is a large local political consensus about the financing arrangement. But it is not the local politicians who adopt toll financing. That's the majority of the Biggest who does. You can see in the notes to the red-greens that they immediately depended on the bill to be sent to the drivers, and they welcome this. I believe that the local politicians, in their despair of the bad roads, see no advice other than car financing, and when they fall into the red-green trap and ask the government if they can send the bill to the drivers, the government rubs its hands and kisses. The Progress Party does not support toll financing for our roads, either in terms of highways, county roads or municipal roads. It is a public responsibility, and the drivers already pay more than enough in car-related charges. Now, soon, the government must be conscious of its responsibilities and pay the roads of public funds. We are very pleased that the road is to be built, but we are therefore proposing state funding. For every time toll financing is adopted by a road or road billing, I imagine Uncle Screw sitting at the top of the billing and rubbing his hands to avoid paying the roads cost, while money laundering is growing to unparalleled heights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e934	I guess regardless of the approach to zero vision, it's like all of us who work in the committee want to see that in the future there will be as much damage as possible to transport in Norway. When you choose to build a narrower road instead of a wider road, there will be a poorer curve, poorer accessibility and poorer traffic flow. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does this belong to the belief in a zero vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e957	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e966	Funding and development of R & D. 2 on the route Kongsvinger–Slomarka in Hedmark has had a slightly winding road until final treatment. I'm not going to go through the whole story, but just a reminder that as early as May 14, 1984, the municipality of South Odal pointed out in a statement to the investigation the development possibilities of the economy in the interior that the development of RV. 2 is important in this respect. I stress that in the time that has passed, the road has only reinforced its importance in this way. But it's been 27 years, and a lot has happened along the way in this case, but it says something about the important work that the government is now doing to see if it is possible to simplify the planning processes with the construction of infrastructure in Norway. Rv. 2 is a very important regional and national road. We are talking about a regional connection from Solør and Glamdals region to Oslo and Akershus. The road is the second most trafficked border route between Norway and Sweden. Just before the weekend we got a good news. The UN has now approved that Rv. 2 is renamed Europe Road and becomes part of E16 between Bergen and Gävle. It means a lot that the status of this route is being raised and it is becoming part of the European road map. It is important to note that on the other side of the Swedish border, Värmland is located with 273,000 inhabitants, who have the Gardermoen as the nearest main aerodrome. Rv. 2 is central to the development of cross-border cooperation on business development and culture between the Capital Region and the Nearest Region on the Swedish side. That is why the Swedish side has also been a driver in this case. In other words, the road is an important route for both cross-border traffic to Sweden, the link with Oslo and internally in the region. The road is also a local road, and on long distances there are dwellings along the road, many off-roads and no offers for walking and cycling. The road has a poor standard today, and there is a reduced speed limit of 55 pst. of the route. In addition, it is heavily damaged by approx. 20 injuries per year. Between 1996 and 2010, there have been 13 fatal accidents and 47 people have been severely injured. As I've been about, this case has not been quite easy, and there have been different views regarding the choice of lines. One of the arguments for another choice has been for soil protection. But the project and the chosen route have broad local political support, and it is of great importance that the road is now being realised. The majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties, the Right and the Christian People's Party, point out that there is still an extension of 33 km between Slomarka and Nybakk when this parcel is finished. Reference is made to the 2010–2019 National Transport Plan, on the basis of which it is considered that it is possible to extend the whole route continuously. At this stage, unfortunately, there are not sufficient clarifications to allow a comprehensive proposal for the financing of the remaining section to be submitted to the Stortinget, and the majority therefore welcome the fact that the whole section will be assessed in the context of the roll-out of the NTP. State councillor Kleppa has issued a statement, including: in a reply to Mr Gunnar Gunnersen last April, that she assures that she will work for continuity in the further development of Rv. 2, provided that the necessary clarifications are available. The opposition has its own comments on this matter that they will probably explain. But there's one comment I find reason to comment on, and it's about what I've been talking about. Because, at the same time as the Christian People's Party and the Right are aware that it is working on continuous expansion, they, together with the Advance Party, have a note that they note that unfortunately there will be no continuous expansion from Kongswinger to Nybakk. I don't understand. It has not been said or written at any time either by the government or by our side that there will be no continuous expansion! As a representative of the region and the county, I think it is a pity that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are trying to create such an impression. It's a bad signal to, and whether, the region, and to all those who might think of establishing themselves there. The road opens up the potential for growth and development in this region. In addition, it can relieve or attenuate the population pressure that Oslo is facing, which we think is positive. But the note gets to account for the parties themselves, and I expect the region to notice that it might seem that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have given up. I would like to stress that from the Workers' Party we will do what we can to ensure that this whole section is completed in 2019. But today we are to be glad that this road project will finally become a reality. It is more important than ever because it is now defined as an important transport corridor in the European road system as well. I present with this the majority's position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1000	The party of progress is looking forward to each new road being built. But at the same time, we are quite saddened that the state, which has all the money, which is search spending, which is richer than ever, with a government that has more money at its disposal than any other government has ever had, does not spend money investing in infrastructure, but serves extra taxes – extra transport taxes – to the drivers. That is what this case is also about. What also makes this proposition come to Stortinget is that tax decisions should now be taken in the Stortinget against the votes of the Progress Party. This issue concerns an important and necessary modernisation of RVs. 2nd@item: inlistbox – I think the president should set the clock, even though I am grateful for a little extra speaking time! The Progress Party would like to build a road – modern and efficient road, but we want to build with state funding. This is also a matter of toll financing. We're against -- everybody here knows that, I think. The arguments are the same in this case as in the previous case. It also becomes clearer in this case, what we saw in the previous case, how expensive this form of funding becomes for the drivers. Of the total investment cost of 1 700 million. NOK 985 million shall be contributed by the drivers. kr through tolls. In addition, they have to pay 655 million. NOK in financial expenses and SEK 135 million. NOK in collection costs. So the total bill for the cars is going to be 1775 million. kr, i.e. a little bit more than it costs to build the entire project. The special thing about this case is that you build a new road in a narrow way – in an old-fashioned way, you might say. The special feature of this case is that the Ministry of the Environment has provided leadership for the option to be chosen, leading to the construction of narrow four-field road at 16.5 metres, instead of modern motorways with 22 metres in width after the normal day-to-day road. This rejects the Progress Party. We reject both the solution in the case and the warning of a new normal road, referred to as a narrow motorway. This too appears to be a new version of the 1996 political wish. A few weeks ago, it was mentioned in the Evening Post, where it was said: ‘We need to ensure that we do not overinvest in road standards.’ Obviously you're not doing that here. The rapporteur has now reminded us of the joyous thing that has happened, namely that this road becomes a European road. Then it's even more incomprehensible that we're choosing a narrow four-field solution. We want modern and safe roads with sufficient capacity, good safety and higher speed than 90 km/h. Unfortunately, there will be no continuous expansion – at least if we are to believe what is in the proposition – on the two projects in Rv. 2, i.e. Kongsvinger–Slomarka and Slomarka–Herbergåsen–Nybakk. This is a new example of the need for extensive renewal of road construction planning and progress in Norway in order to ensure the overall development of large-scale projects and with shorter planning time. The Party considers that such renewal must take place as soon as possible and preferably independently of the ongoing roll-out of the national transport plan. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. So I'm going to use a few words at II in the vote, which is a majority vote at that point from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. I quote II: ‘The government is asking the Storting to file a case for measures during 2012 to ensure a simpler and faster planning period for large-scale transport projects and measures to ensure overall development.’ In the evening post today, we can read with the title ‘The state’s road builder feels powerless’ that the Road Directorate says: ‘We need to change the law. In this context, legislative changes are needed to cut the time it takes to plan a road in Norway. It is the director of the Road Directorate's own development who notes it in the evening post today. The Progress Party fully agrees. It is important that the road builder actually give clear messages to those with political power and authority. That's what this government has been doing for almost six years, so it would have been completely possible to do something about this for the longest time. It is possible today, it is possible for the majority of the population to say yes to II that the government is presenting a case to the Stortinget for next year on measures to ensure easier and faster planning time for, among others. large road projects. The development manager of the Road Directorate is very clear that there is a legal change that needs to be made. He says, among other things: the current design and building laws give little opportunity to carry out the process. Although the road builder and the road directorate go into their routines under current planning and building laws and see if they can do this any faster than what is happening today, the main message here is that the political decision needs to be taken, and there must be legislative changes. It's the propulsion party's call, where the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are involved, to the government to do something about it – not just talk about it, but do something about it. That is why we hope that II can be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1034	It must be said that this is a joyous day for South Hedmark. Rv. 2 is the very lifeblood of the district of Glamdal, as the case rapporteur was in, and it is a main year to Sweden and Stockholm. Developments take place over time, because this road project has been in progress for at least 20 to 25 years, and lack of progress has hampered the development of the district and has been a threat to the reputation of policy through sommel, quarrel and root. As you can see, it is easy to agree with the rapporteur when she says that the case has had a slightly curved path to the decision. I've been driving this road at least once a week in half a life. Traffic cooking is formidable, and the Thon mall at Charlottenberg is going to keep attracting more. Now it's queue on Saturdays as well! Most people took it for granted that the road would come when the Prime Minister himself adorned the front page of the local Glamdalen during the 2007 election campaign. The flower bouquet had been given to the prime minister was so large that it almost took the shine from him. It's faded since then. In fact, someone began to wonder if it had to be revoked, gilded and sent in again so that the road would not be forgotten. But there's a lot of wonder in what's being presented. The net useful value of the project is calculated at negative -210 million. kr. So this is one of the country's most trafficked roads outside Oslo, and one of the majors towards Sweden. I find it quite amazing that you then get a net utility. It might say more about the model used than the need for the road. This is a road that the whole of Southern Hedmark is dependent on, and the whole of Rome is using it to trade in Sweden, and the traffic growth in the enlarged part, Klöfta–Nybakk, is higher than expected when that project was adopted. Under the heading «Money flows in», the Glaum Valley announced in January of a year and a half ago that the toll company’s debt would have been paid down before the foreseen 15 years. Let me also say that the narrow four-field road, as I see it, is an absolutely excellent solution for a road like rv. 2, and I think it's going to meet capacity needs for many years to come. I don't think we should forget that a normal four-field road takes 7-8-9 meters more soil than the solution chosen here. So I would definitely recommend that it be investigated on other sections of the country as well. However, it is disappointing that the government has not decided that the entire route between Nybakk and Kongsvinger should now be continuously expanded. I hear that the case rapporteur might interpret it in the sense that we have given up. We definitely don't. But now the situation is that we get four-field road from Kongswinger and a little bit southward, and then we get four-field road from Klöfta and a little northward, and in the middle there's another thirty-three miles left with what's approaching a little driveway. It is a tragedy for road planning in Norway, and the whole project should have been actually adopted as a coherent OPS project, as proposed several times by the Right. I have recorded in debates that it has evolved a bit into a debate about thanking the drivers. I think absolutely that's reason when they're going to cover 60 pst. the costs of a road, even if it is not part of the decision-making basis. I certainly don't feel like a socialist either, although I realize that if you're going to get away, you're actually going to have to join in and pay for it. In the Glamdal district, at least I am sure that impatience is now so great that it accepts people for a time course. So when today's vote is ready, and the project is adopted, it has to celebrate a little. But at the same time, I am horrified on behalf of the rational development of Norwegian infrastructure. For: How long shall we wait, and how much political game can one expect before the next stage is started?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1051	The Christian People's Party joins in the construction of a new highway between Kongswinger and Slomarka. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the case spokesman for a good job. This is an important road project. It means a lot to Solør/Glåmdals region, but it is also an important route to Oslo and Akershus and also as a national road to Sweden. It has been a debate on whether we should thank the motorists. I am voting in favour of thanking the motorists, because it is such a local connection to this project. So here it has our local political treatment in the municipality of Kongsvinger, in the municipality of Grue, in the municipality of South Odal, in the municipality of Nes, in the municipality of Ullensaker and both in the municipality of Hedmark County and the municipality of Akershus. Then the representative Blackevik takes up how expensive it is. Yes, it is a big project. It's a project costing $1,700 million. So this is $985 million. NOK from the car list and SEK 715 million. kr with government funds. But it's not that the government heads are necessarily free, they also have an alternative cost. I notice that the representative Sortevik does not include the alternative cost in his calculation. Finally, I would also like to comment on the case-speaker's comment on this with a coherent expansion, because it's a very busy Christian People's Party that we're getting in place. That's also the background for us going into that comment. I believe today that there are good intentions that there will be more here in the next national transport plan. I'm glad. But I do not feel that there is any guarantee that is good enough for us to have a coherent expansion. Even with this decision that we get here today, there will be 33 km of expansion. The Christian People's Party and the Right are very concerned about getting a coherent expansion. That is why we have also chosen to go into the plural comment that concerns this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1064	The president regrets that the clock doesn't work, because we're a little bit poorly staffed up here. But everyone has stayed well within speaking time, and to the extent that they haven't, they've been given the supplement. The President notes that there is no proposal for voting today to thank the drivers, but otherwise understands the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1069	Hedmark and Akershus County Councils have assessed the development of whole Rv. 2 between Kongsvinger and Klöfta as one toll project and have concluded that the entire route will be partly financed by up to 60 pst. tolls. The first stage, covering the route Klöfta-Nybakk, was opened for traffic in 2006/2007. Missing plan clarifications will cause the government to return to its remaining sections at a later date. There is a local political agreement that the route Kongsvinger-Slomarka should be built as a second stage. Rv. 2 is an important route for both cross-border and intra-regional traffic. It is the regional connection from Solør/Glåmdals region to Oslo and Akershus. The road is also an intermediate road to Sweden. In addition, the road has a function as a local road. On long distances there are dwellings along the road, many drains and missing supplies for walking and cycling. The road has poor standard in terms of traffic volume and is exposed. Although soil protection makes the view of trasé choices differ locally, the project has broad local policy support. A new trasé will improve the traffic situation between Oslo and Kongsvinger/Sweden. New roads will also reduce the risk of accidents both on existing ones. 2, which becomes the local road with walking and cycling road function, and again rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox The route from Kurusand in Kongsvinger to Slomarka in South Odal is about 16.5 km long. New road is built along fv. 175 and crossing the Glomma with a new bridge. New road through South Odal is built along current rv. Two north of Glomma. In addition, it includes: three plan-source crossings and a comprehensive reconversion of county roads, municipal roads and private access routes. I think it's important to stress here what road users get. There is something about this list. It sounds as if every new project is now an obligation imposed on the carists, but they actually get new and better roads, as well as here – a very long road, a four-field road, with a width of 16.5 metres. It will be a test run to see if it is appropriate to standardise an extra narrow four-field road in future revisions of the road standard. It is important to note that when this project takes about 1000 days of food, one by building a narrower road will avoid further degradation of cultivated land. This road is also equipped with a mid pulley and, as a general rule, the cross is to be built with a levelling device. The speed limit shall be separated to 90 km/h. The state road authority therefore expects to be able to start the site late this year and open the road for traffic in 2014. Let me also say a few words about the theme of planning, because I'm very impatient to shorten the time it now takes from planning to realization, even though some of these obstacles are already forced, because we're in a period where it's being built considerably more way than a few years ago. As I have told the Stortingen about earlier, both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency work continuously in many areas to secure capacity and competence and to streamline the planning process. The state's road system has recently started work on how to streamline planning. It's a work I'm looking forward to, and I want to get back to Stortinget in my own way. In the short term, it is important to have sufficient means of planning to follow up the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 and to implement the planning as efficiently as possible. In the 2011 state budget, the proceeds for the planning of highways have increased to 430 million. kr from a level of approximately 260 million. kr. Frame is also proposed to increase by an additional 40 million. kr in the revised national budget. Let me say one more time: When Kongswinger–Slomarka is finished, there are 33 important kilometers left. It is therefore an extension to be assessed in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. It's only then that we can talk about a coherent expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1090	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1093	What the drivers get is an opportunity to pay approx. $800 million. kr extra to contribute to this funding. But that was not the main point of the line. A little about planning, since the Council of State itself was involved: In April Prime Minister Stoltenberg said to the Post of Aften that nine years for planning new road projects is too long. Do the Councils agree? Today, the Director-General of the Road Directorate says that the current law on planning and building provides little opportunity to carry out the process, and that it needs to change the law. Do the Councils agree? If she agrees, not least until the end: what can we expect with regard to the necessary changes in the current planning and building law, so that we can speed up road construction and reduce planning time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1102	Yes, I agree with the Prime Minister that nine years is too long. I myself have said the same in the Storting before, and I would like to repeat it. Yes, I agree with Mr. Lars Aksnes that there is a need to look at different aspects of the planning process, including the law on which it is based today. The Planning and Building Act falls within the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. Government plan is a tool that can be used when important state or regional measures make it necessary. This could be done, for example, by: are when the municipalities adopt alternatives that conflict with national considerations, or they will not take plan decisions. More use of a government plan is something we're looking at, but I think it's a lot more different that can be made simpler and faster and put into action faster than a law change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1110	I would like to start by saying that this is a continuation of a pilot project on narrow four-field roads, which we welcome in the Right. We think it's the way to go to build more traffic-proof and affordable roads for a cheaper money than to build large quadruple highways. Then we can also realize these paths on a lower ÅDT number. My question is also about planning. It goes on overall planning, and there is a reference to what the Council of State has said in its strategy paper to the National Transport Plan, where she has suggested that now there will be much more corridor planning and much more overall planning in the future. We welcome that. We've asked for that several times. Wouldn't this be a project where it was natural? And is it too late to do anything about it in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1117	When it is that not all plan clearances are present at this time for the remaining 33 km, I think we should be glad today that we are actually realizing Kongswinger–Slomarka. Then we might worry that it now takes an average of nine years of road planning, but the thing is, in this room we've heard repeatedly about plans that have been 30, 40 and even 70 years, because we've had periods behind us where there's been little road construction. Now we're after all in an offensive period. Then we'll be glad that every project we get. Then, in the new national transport plan, we're going to be determined not only to plan more coherently, but also to set up funds that make it possible to build more coherently.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1122	I note that the Minister of Transport agrees with the Prime Minister for nine years too long. The Minister for Transport also agrees with Lars Aksnes that there is a need for legislative change, as he says today. Then I also expect that there is of course a matter for Stortinget about it. My question is related to development. We listened to the case spokesman in a good way so that we could get a coherent development. The Council of State concluded its statement that it is a clear intention for it to enter the NTP for the next major period. But can the Council of State guarantee that there will be a coherent expansion? Now we've agreed to this stage – will it be clear when we're done with this stage, so that we get a coherent expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1129	I have to be allowed to come back when we see how the plan clearance goes. But I think it went to subtract from my post that the government's ambition here is related expansion. Then I have to be allowed to use only a few minutes on the bill change and the planning and building law. Today, there is a secret that has been used little when it comes to the excessive threat that someone is threatening to use in government, because if there is good cooperation between the state's road services as action providers and the municipalities as planning authorities, and if one clears the conflicts quickly and easily, the time needed is shorter. But it's all of these loops that have to be taken because of disagreement, which makes it take a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1136	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1141	As the debate here underlines, it has been a long and winding road, literally, for Rv. 2 until today's decision. There are many who have the credit for the construction of Rv. 2 from Kongswinger to Slomarka now realized. One that needs to be mentioned is the rapporteur, Henning Myrvang, in the municipality of South Odal, who has worked for the road for 25 years. I would also like to make special mention of Eirin Fallet and the rapporteur, Tone Merete Sønsterud, who have been important drivers of the case. Today's road standard is bad, and the road is very accident-affected. Therefore, the construction of a new narrow four-field road will be important to improve road safety and accessibility along the route. The development of Rv. 2 is important from a regional policy perspective, but it is also important from a national perspective. In Finland, economic development and population growth pose major challenges and a better trajectory along the way. 2 can help relieve the pressure on the capital region. Rv. 2 is also an important European transport year, which is not least underlined by the fact that the United Nations is in favour of the reclassification of the road into the European road. The border crossing at Morocco is the second most trafficked in Norway, after Svinesund. I would like to join the representative of Gunnar Gundersen in saying that this is a happy day. Once again, the red-green government proves that we're delivering on infrastructure. We are in the process of implementing a historic journey promise which means that road sections across the country, fought by the local population for many years, are now being realized. The fight for the expansion of Rv. 2 has remained for almost three decades, and the government, and not least the Minister of Transport, deserves tribute for today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1152	Once again, we get a project on the table where the red-green policymakers hide behind the fact that locals are asking for toll-financed roads. Then it is clearly very easy for the red-green, plus the Christian People's Party and the Right, to adopt toll financing. I guess you could also start calling them toll buddies. This time it's rv. 2 Kongsvinger-Slomarka. One state after another comes today with its request for toll financing – this because the state is not conscious of its responsibility. Toll financing is no longer limited to paying the road on which you are going. No tolls may also be paid for walking and cycling paths, coach stations and other road safety measures. The drivers have been a dairy cow for a long time to put in place projects for which the government is not willing to pay. There has been a socialist regime in Norway for almost 50 of the last 66 years. But good roads for most people it hasn't been any of. It's obvious when you're out driving on the roads. The Progress Party will never be tired of being on the side of the drivers – yes, on most people’s side – and we say once again that it is public responsibility to finance the road. I hope that those who agree to adopt toll financing for one project after another – a whole three toll financing packages today – will not be able to sleep at night as well as to think about the additional costs they have incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1167	This could have been a very good day for many who either live along the rv. 2 or it is used to transport itself and their own, and for the industry along the way — not least for the part of the business that uses rv. 2 to transport goods back and forth. The debate on rv. 2 and its expansion has taken far too long – a whole 27 years. Different routes have been discussed back and forth, with legal proceedings and much said that could have been avoided for the best. Many have lived for a long time in uncertainty about what their everyday life will be like. The road and its meetings have been visited by prime ministers, state councils, city councillors, state and municipal politicians, and not least by many others who have had an opinion on the road. It has been flagged, and flowers have been distributed – perhaps Norway's largest flower bouquet was given away in the hope that the new road would soon become a reality. Very many people have said yes to the new road and have harvested both roses and rice for this. The road has also been there several times in Stortinget, and the undersigned has been one of several who has asked questions in the Questionnaire – yes, several times I have done this, and of course in the debates where this has been possible. And now it's expanding by rv. 2 Kongswinger, i.e. Kurusand, to Slomarka in Hedmark – a stretch of approx. 16.5 km, but there are many miles left before the road is complete. What's a shame is that you haven't done this before. It had become significantly cheaper, and one should also have had a continuous recovery of the entire distance when one first started. And: Many accidents could probably have been avoided. That's why we're in the situation that the project has become significantly more expensive, and the business community, etc. has lost a lot of money. The bill of the day and the future for this must be taken by the drivers. It determines the red-green majority here today, together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. It is totally wrong that the drivers have to pay for this road development. The drivers pay more than enough already today, and an additional load is totally wrong. In particular, this is a heavy burden on today’s industry. It's too easy to let others. The drivers, pay for something they're already doing with good money. We do that in the form of a lot of charges. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore believes that no tolls, yes to government funding, and yes to a full European road with a width of 22 metres. Going from 16.5 metres to 22 metres to conserve cultivated land – as the Council of State said before – rather than increasing prosperity and, not least, increasing safety – must be totally wrong. Only the Center Party can think of such thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1182	As we've heard, it's a long journey that's now crowned with decision. This may show some of the challenges facing planning new road sections. There are many considerations to be weighed up against each other – there is no mercury fix to get everything in place. There has been a discussion about trasé, there has been consideration of soil protection and consideration of a number of others who are going to say their own. But, finally, decisions are being made today in an important road project that is important to the region of Solør and Glamdal, but which is also important for Norway and Sweden in the interconnection that we are talking about here. The next stage is Slomarka–Nybakk, when adequate clarifications have been made on the level side, which is what remains. And toll buddy or not, as the representative Vosskensen expressed it, I live very well with, as long as we get the built-up road, and we do that in a big way. I also record that the Progress Party has lived well with being a toll companion for four years earlier and in some municipalities, which sees that there is a good solution to the measures to be taken. The centre party welcomes each project that finds its solution and is being implemented. It benefits the country and business around. Then I will stop congratulating you on the day of Hedmark, on the Solør and Glamdal regions and on all of us, and not least because we have got a new European road that I know is a long-lasting status for many around.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1195	It could be tempting to start both a toll debate and an OPS debate, but I will leave it in this case. But I just have to say to the Progress Party: I said in my post that this has been a debate on trasé elections, among other things. in the interests of soil protection, and there is an important debate. It is important that we have that element even when we build infrastructure in Norway, but as Gunnar Gundersen was in his post, it would take seven to eight more meters – and there is also an element in this case. I agree with the Right that also says that 16.5 meters is a good solution, and that might be a solution for many other road projects as well. I am driving this road at least approx. Once a week, and I am very satisfied with the width of the road. I know a lot of people running this way. I know many commuters who are driving this road, and I have not heard any complaints on that type of road and the width of the road on this road. I'd rather say they're actually quite satisfied. So to this with continuous expansion. I am pleased to hear in the debate today that there are several people who are concerned that we get a continuous development, and that that remark from the majority might not have been so serious, however – to say it that way. What I also want to say in this case is that here we actually don't start on scratch. If you read the proposition, you'll see that a lot of the plan work is already done. So when you talk about nine, ten to twelve years here -- right in this case at least -- I hope this can go a lot faster than that, because a lot of the work is already done. So finally, I am glad that the project can now be started. It is an important matter for the region, for Kongswinger, for the whole of Hedmark and for the Oslo district.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1210	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4415]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1226	The President must draw attention to the fact that the adjustment has been made beyond the regulatory time, but the adjustment is not yet printed and distributed in the Chamber for unknown reasons. That will happen during the treatment, I have been informed. I then expect that the committee and the members present will not oppose the discussion of the matter. If necessary, you can change case No. 7 and 8. That's an opportunity. If no one asks for the floor, I consider it possible to continue the discussion of the matter. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We are sorry that this has happened. It shall not normally happen. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1239	This proposition concerns the extension of the Aust-Agder package. The background is the Aust-Agder County Decision of 30 August last year, where a large majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, decided to send an application to the Ministry of Transport for the adjustment of today's toll system based on, inter alia, the the following assumptions: extension of the Aust-Agder package by up to 200 million. kr to finance the planning of the new E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand, the planning and construction of the pedestrian and cycle path along the 402 Storemyr-Birkeland district, and the planning and construction of the pedestrian and cycle path along the E18 Tvedestrand border-Lillevåje. The same majority proposed to finance this by dividing today’s toll station at E18 Grimstad–Kristiansand into two with a new toll station west of Lillesand and halving the current tariff in existing bombs from DKK 30 to NOK 15, where the tariff in a new toll station will also be NOK 15. The matter has been thoroughly dealt with locally and regionally. When the case was sent out to the hearing, the municipality of Grimstad, the municipality of Arendal, the municipality of Tvedestrand, the municipality of Risør and the municipality of Gjerstad were in favour of this initiative, while the municipality of Birkenes and the municipality of Lillesand spoke negatively. The Ministry has dealt with the matter thoroughly and mainly adheres to the East-Agder County recommendations. I would like to thank the Committee for an effective and good work, but we have not agreed. The Committee has divided into three. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have one proposal, the Right and Christian People's Party another and the Advance Party a third. I expect the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to present their proposals, so I will take the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – and with this I will also address the proposal. We are very pleased with the initiative of the district council in East Agder and the follow-up from the department. Our proposal is in line with the Department's recommendation and involves an extension of the East-Agder package by up to 200 million. kr. These means shall be used for the planning of new E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand and planning and construction of the pedestrian and cycle path on county road 402 Storemyr-Birkeland and along the E18 Tvedestrand border-Lillevåje. This is achieved by dividing the tree of E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand and extending the collection period somewhat. We are aware that this has created a certain debate, but when one takes into account the history of the Aust-Agder package, where the purpose was to finance the development of new E18 throughout the county, we believe that this proposal is both sensible and fair. In large parts of East Agder, the creation of a new bomb and a shared solution were called both the distribution boom and the justice boom. The principle is that someone with this will pay for that part of the way you use. For many it will mean unaltered bombing rates, for some it will mean lower costs, and for some it means higher costs. When one sees this in connection with the fact that during the tolling period the tree located east of the Aust-Agder county will have subsidized the section Grimstad-Kristiansand by an estimated 1 300 million. kr, as well as the fact that today's bomb in Grimstad municipality and pre-recovery of old E18, which also stands in Grimstad municipality, has transferred significant funds to new E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand, it is not unreasonable for a new toll station to be established west of Lillesand. I am pleased that with this we ensure good progress for the new E18 Tvedestrand–Arendal. There are many of us who have ambitions that today's road-hazardous route will be replaced by a modern one quickly. Then it is important that planning does not stop. With this grip, we provide planning materials in combination with the fact that the distance is inside the NTP, which today's government provides. This makes many of us optimistic about the start-up time of the new E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand. I'm also glad that half of the 200 million. kr goes to the new foot-and-mouth route between Lillesand and Birkeland, i.e. approx. One hundred million. kr. and that 30-40 million. kr shall proceed to a new foot-and-mouth route between Arendal and Tvedestrand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1260	The President expects the representative to be behind the vote and not to be behind any of the proposals in the vote that exist, and therefore it is not necessary to include them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1263	E18 is one of the most important roads in Norway. 48 pst. the population of Norway lives in the counties through which E18 goes. Then I didn't even count on the E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger, which is in the E18 extension. For us in the South, there are actually no other roads that are close to being as important as the E18. This is our lifeline to the rest of the country, and so also to the continent. When parts of the E18 have a standard far below today's requirements, it goes beyond business, people's quality of life, and not least tourism. The expansion of E18 westwards from Oslo has gone very slowly. The four - lane motorway on E18 from Oslo to Asker was already completed in 1969, but even 49 years later, there is no continuous motorway further than to Vestfold. E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is the distance that is most precarious to get done with. There's two footbridges, and there's 119 meters between each exit. The population along the E18 downwards in South Africa is expected to increase sharply by 2040. That means we're going to experience major traffic problems if you don't invest money in infrastructure. Yesterday, when I drove from Arendal to Oslo, the average speed from Telemark's border to Brevikbrua was 30 km/h, without any road accidents. So this was E18. This is embarrassing. So the road network can't stand today's traffic. The Government recently presented its draft revised national budget for 2011. The proposition from the Department says it's black and white that the government has earned 23 billion. kr more in oil money than budgeted up to now this year. Norway can afford to invest in good ways. Yes, Norway should be able to afford at least as good roads as the EU is now building in Poland and in other countries. I have even seen with my own eyes in Poland how to build motorways quickly and efficiently. Large international entrepreneurs are ready to undertake projects in Norway if we spend long enough couples to make it interesting for them. Although Norway has very good advice, the government will now pre-claim tolls for the planning of the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand. This is completely unreasonable. Firstly, such pre-recovery breaks with the principle of utility, i.e. the benefit of the project to those who pay tolls. Secondly, it is totally unreasonable that the State should not pay for one of Norway’s most important and strategic roads. Thirdly, Norwegian drivers pay enormous sums in car and fuel taxes. Moreover, we cannot be sure whether new E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand will actually be built if the red-green government continues, because this is only for planning purposes. Since 1945 there has been socialist government for almost 50 out of 66 years, and it is seen on the roads. So blaming other governments for bad roads falls on their own unfairness. It's also a little bit special that the government will spend up to 140 million dollars. from car tolls to finance walking and cycling routes. There has been a discussion about the number of toll stations and their location. This debate clearly proves that tolls will be unfair no matter how you turn them around. But since we in the Progress Party are against the bombs, we don't interfere with the discussion of where the bombs are going to be. One proposal, however, is worse than the other. The red-green will have three trees on the Gjerstad-Agder border and payment one year longer than planned, the right will have two trees and toll payment for one and a half years beyond the plans, while the Christian People's Party will have both. First, the Christian People's Party in the vote says that they are satisfied with the initiative of the Aust-Agder County Municipality in the matter, i.e. three beams. But in their proposal, they are asking the Stortinget to continue today's collection system, i.e. two trees. That sounds pretty special. The progress party is a yes-party, and we say yes to state funding of the roads. We're happy that the road gets in place. We are promoting our proposal, on the full state funding of E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand and the planning of route and cycle road development along E18 and Fv. 402.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1286	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1289	In the past, I have been in favour of the government's proposals on toll financing. But in this project, I believe we are crossing a border, or at best approaching it, which means that we should stop a little and consider whether the principle of utility, which we all agree to base on tolls, is fulfilled. In this context, I have to be allowed to refer to a matter we had earlier today, where we chose to treat the parcel along Randsfjorden as a separate project, precisely for the sake of the principle of utility, and that it was therefore not treated as part of the package related to Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Here you do not, but I believe that this matter raises the same issue. There is also great local disagreement. We have a divided county council, and we see that the municipalities in the west are opposite. Measures have also been put in place along the way here, which we in the Right believe are expensive to finance; a new toll station has to be set up to finance them. So isolatedly, the new measures are an expensive way to do it. However, the right is of the opinion that the measures are sensible, even if it is possible to foresee that further planning would be necessary and that the other measures would be necessary. Then I'll be allowed to refer to a letter from the Council of State that went on to extend the collection period, and how long it would involve with the same order. The conclusion of that letter is in fact six months with the order of the day. We think that this is so small that we believe that we should then be able to extend the current system and that the new tasks are financed within it. In this context, I refer to the proposal as inter alia: The right has put forward the matter, and addresses it. As regards the deepening of the more local circumstances and the disagreement that is present in the case, others from the Right will discuss it. But first a little last point from my side of the case: this project is a continuation of one of the biggest success projects in Norwegian road history, namely the OPS project between Kristiansand and Lillesand, where we got a half-time realization of what we were used to. This was solved with a private consortium, and all the subsequent reports show that this was a sensible way to approach it. So we know that there is a large majority in this room -- it's a little different how far forward we see the goal -- for a four-field, safe and achievable path across the E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. Then is my question to the Council of State: why in the world is it not based on the success story and realizes the few that remain in the same way? And, if I can add, you should also make long-term plans for the different pairs northwards. The Committee has recently been travelling in this area, and there is clearly a great need also when it comes to the frontier with Telemark – and through Telemark. At all, this is a project that is over-mature for a comprehensive planning, as the Council of State mentioned in a reply earlier today, and we are looking forward to what comes in the National Transport Plan on this. I also hope that the Council of State will follow up the suggestions she has had in the past to look at OPS funding solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1308	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1311	The most important thing about the decision taken today is that the road can be built and that the road can be built as quickly as possible. That is why I first want to emphasise the positive in the case, namely that there are finally planning means, so that the planning of the Arendal–Tvedestrand route does not stop – and that it is implemented. E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is an important route. It is a stretch that is currently far from European road standards. There are 161 off-roads on a 19.2 km long road. So for every 119.25 meters there is a new exit, and those who have driven the road know that it poses some challenges with queues and also dangerous traffic situations. In the last 15 years, there have also been 10 deaths on the route. In this respect, building a new road is an important road safety measure. Young people and adults who walk along the road and the schoolchildren who use it — and today, in fact, there is a distance that lacks walking and cycling paths. But it's also important for business — the way to Oslo. It's important to be able to gain greater access to Oslo. I am pleased that East-Agder and West-Agder are united to fight for the new E18, so that it can come as soon as possible. For a new route between Arendal and Tvedestrand, although some members of the committee do not like it, the East-Agder and West-Agder will link more together. We have seen it through a new road between Grimstad and Tvedestrand that a common housing and labour market is being created. It is incredibly important, especially when we know that East East-Agder is struggling with major living conditions challenges. A road will actually help improve this, because it will then be easier to live east in East Agder and work further west. This issue concerns the extension of the East Agderpakket. Therefore, first of all, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party believes that the planning funds should have been given by the government. It should have been that when a new road is planned, it comes from the government. When the representative de Ruiter in his post talks about the means of planning, they should not have come through this matter – which the representative is pleased with, and I can also enjoy it to a great extent now – but it should have come from the government in the first place. That is why I am pleased that the county council has shown great action in the matter, that it has just chosen to turn around when it has been seen that it has been challenging and has made a local initiative. For this reason, I need first of all to thank the county food rapporteur in East-Agder, Oddvar Skiaa, who has done a great job and has been a proponent to both one and the other councillors for just getting a good solution. But we also see that there is a local disagreement. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that there is consensus on quite major issues of conflict as it is tolling. We see that there are different views in both municipalities and municipalities, we see that, among other things. in the hearings. That is why our primary proposal today is to continue the toll package as it is today, which will be a good solution. But when that is said, it is important that the road be built, and we support the subsidiary position. The East-Agderpakket is about a distribution throughout the county, and the matter was dealt with in Stortinget for approx. 10 years ago. We believe that the distribution that was then made was okay. So it's unnecessary and expensive to create a new bomb, and from today's collection, it looks like it's going a lot faster than planned. Finally, I want to come to the representative ingebjørg Vosskensen's posts. For the consequence of what she says, and the consequence of the Progress Party's policy, is that there is actually no way. The consequences of what she says are that today there would not be any planning resources. That's where I think you have to realize the reality. Our proposal points out the importance of the road, and we believe it is a fairer proposal. But we support the subsidiary attitude, because we see the importance of that way. Finally, I promised the representative Dagrun Eriksen from West Agder – we have a good cooperation across the counties – to say: Road is not the only way in, trains are another important way. We still haven't got the sleeping cart that we want to put in place in Kristiansand, so that those who want to commute can use it on the way to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1332	E18 through East Agder is a very important road in many contexts. It applies to business, transit, local traffic, tourist traffic and not least to regional development. This includes the development of E18 in East Agder as a central part of the Government’s strategy in the National Transport Plan, for the most coherent development of E18 between Oslo and Kristiansand. At the same time, much car traffic contributes to an increased need for the construction of walking and cycling roads along both E18 and on some routes of administration. I am pleased that the attitude of the Transport and Communications Committee shows that there is complete agreement on the implementation of the measures proposed in the proposal. Furthermore, the setting shows that there is broad agreement about financing the toll measures. Then there are different views about the design of the collection scheme. I write in the proposition that the proposal for a new toll station and the collection structure is a reasonable improvement. Today there is only one toll station on the new four-field road between Grimstad and Kristiansand. The location of the toll station means that traffic tolls from Lillesand must pay tolls, while traffic tolls on the new road run westwards free of tolls. This results in an unbalanced and poor match between the payment for the use of the road and the use of it. It is difficult to see that traffic westwards from Lillesand should be treated differently than traffic outwards. Those who benefit from the new road financed by tolls should pay, regardless of the direction in which they are going. The Aust-Agder County Municipality has shown its willingness by decision to clean this up. In addition, I would like to remind you that the tolls in the existing toll station are halved, and they are similar to the rates proposed in the new toll state. Toll payment is therefore unchanged for transit traffic and halved for traffic between Grimstad and Lillesand. The new tariffs will be low per toll station, with 15 kroner per pass for passenger cars without a discount. Local traffic on the E18 between Lillesand and Kristiansand is therefore subject to a low toll load, especially when we consider the discounts. Otherwise, let me underline the following. Eastern Agderpacket is a package, as its name suggests. This means that there is a holistic view of the basis for consistency between collection sites and the use of tolls, both in time and in space. The proposal on tolls for the planning of, inter alia: the new E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal is set in such a context. I'm glad that a broad plural joins the proposal. This part of E18 has a bad default and will be an important project in the further follow-up of the Aust-Agderpakket. Then I will return to the priority of further deployment of E18 in the National Transport Plan Communication 2014-2023. The question is, why does the government not ask with planning tools for a development that we consider so important? The situation is that it was entirely superior to putting in place many projects in turn and order in the national transport plan that we are now realizing. It has been shown that no corresponding level media were put in place. It also implies that last year, in 2010, extra funds were introduced both in the revised and in the new era, so this year we now have proposals to increase the budget by more than 200 million. SEK – 170 million. more than last year in the budget, and now another 40 million. in the revised budget. It is because the Arendal-Tvedestrand route, despite the importance of upgrading it, has been added to the final part of the planning period by the decision to collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1347	It'll be a string shift, bounded to three lines – five lines is it. Then there's room for more, and it's allowed to vary the questions from the replicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1351	In the East Agderpaket, walking and cycling paths are also included. The red-green government disclaims a clear responsibility, as they also add soft packages here. Fv walking and cycling paths. 402 isn't even along the E18. I wonder if the Council of State doesn't think it's unreasonable to disclaim responsibility for soft packages and not to finance traffic safety for most people, but to transfer this responsibility to the drivers who drive on the E18, who will never use this walking and cycling path they have to pay for?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1358	Let me remind you that it's the county council in East Agder that has here taken an initiative to change the collection when it comes to what is to be realized, that is, to get the necessary plank products in place and to strengthen two important walking and cycling paths. The one is responsible for it – yes – but it is well that the Goodness has also come with it that, as a result of the new E18, there has been a significant increase in traffic on this road, and an increased need for a one-way and a bike path. So I want to say that this is taking responsibility, not writing it off.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1363	In the previous two toll cases, there was a little discussion about sending thanks to the drivers. In this case, they actually express themselves through their organisation, the Norwegian Automobile Association. There is – at least to the Transport Committee – a very comprehensive opinion and a very clear advice. I quote: «NAF therefore requests the Committee on Transport and Communications to reject the Ministry’s proposal for a decision extending the Aust-Agderpakket.» The justification is based in particular on the proposal to use funds entered through tolls for planning a possible road project. Does the Council of State consider that the Norwegian Automobile Association, as it were, is on the verge of going against this, or how can the Council of State defend the fact that planning funds for a possible road project are to be financed so long in advance, through the collection of tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1377	I wonder about this nominee from the NAF. The NAF, which here is the motorist's organisation, should be interested that driving from Birkeland was both safer and that it would be a safer road Arendal–Tvedestrand – including that this road is actually planned. When it comes to the order of planning and the use of government funds, it goes without saying that we have to give priority to the sections to be realized these first four years, and then the others, the rest, come on. So now, East-Agder is taking an initiative, making a decision that the Storting will follow today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1384	During the course of the case, the Council of State sent a letter to the Committee saying that the costs of operating and expanding the toll station were estimated at 40 million. kr. Now, of course, I am aware that our solution to extend the existing amortisation period by six months would also cost a few kroner, even if it would hardly be in that order. My question to the Council of State is whether she thinks this is a reasonable cost of a project amounting to 190 million. kr. There is a rather high cost of financing these measures by making this extension. Why have you not just chosen to extend the pay-down period by six months, as we believe in our proposal is the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1391	I have followed up on an initiative taken from East-Agder County, which takes on both funding for planning and takes on the realisation of two most necessary walking and cycling paths. So there's different ways to do this. I thought that East-Agder County has pointed to a clean road, also because they are now charging the toll tax differently, so that you have to pay in a bomb whether you drive east or westward on the new E18. So the fact is that the money that goes in today shows that today's toll collection will be shortened by three years. Now the fasitium in the city will be two years – 2019 instead of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1398	I noticed the Government's response to Inbjørg Vosskensen when it came to these extra roads that the Council of State thought that when it came to Storemyr-Birkeland, the government took a real responsibility here, as this was part of the package. In the Question Time, I asked the Council of State if the government should not intervene and take the route along Storemyr-Birkeland into the European roads, precisely because there had been so much traffic growth there, and it was dangerous for cyclists and pedestrians. At the time, I was told that this had nothing to do with the European road, so it was not appropriate to add those funds. So now it's time for the drivers to pay. What makes this suddenly relevant to the European road?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1407	I think I have to repeat once again that what makes this matter relevant is an initiative taken in East-Agder County. They have taken a local initiative based on the actual situation they see when it comes to traffic, both for one-off and bicycle roads – which are also alarmed by the representative Harberg – and for the planning of a new E18. That's what it does. So the Goodness asked if it was not a disclaimer of a responsibility to come up with the conclusion that is leading today. Then I'm going to say the opposite: it's mainly East-Agder County that has taken a responsibility, and the municipalities that have followed up here, and who know the turmoil that's now for increasing traffic. And then I have found to put this matter forward. In fact, I also mean that the toll collection itself is more legitimate than what it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1416	I have chosen to view this as a bit of a joyous day, because it is a step closer to a new path. I think the Council of State in many ways made a good point, but there were a few things that I must at least challenge a little from my interpretation of it. On the one hand, the Council of State is pleased that initiatives have been taken locally on planning resources. But the reason why it's not applied by the state is that it's in the last half of the NTP today. That's why, as I see it, planning will start earlier and end earlier, not necessarily as a result of building and finishing earlier. There has been some evidence that the planning funds have been delayed and that one has also been willing to take this approach, that one just wants to get ahead with planning as soon as possible, and get the road done as soon as possible. So the question is, do I misinterpret the Council of State, or is it that she really wants to get the road moving and get the construction started as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1423	I haven't met anyone who doesn't want to realize this road – the Arendal-Tvedestrand stretch – as soon as possible. It is then that the roads that are planned are easier to realize than those that are not planned. But what we have to focus on now in these four years -- we're doing well -- is realising the projects that are planned for this period. Therefore, my answer to Arendal-Tvedestrand is that we will return to this in the forthcoming National Transport Plan, i.e. spring 2013. And it is clear that if it is then planned, it means in practice that it can move forward in a queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1430	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1436	Today I have experienced what you sometimes experience, that you have to put down a script and start again, and that after hearing the posts here. Firstly, it is probably right to point out, as many have done, that there has been an overall political environment in the South that has been involved in new European pathways through the South, both from Kristiansand and westwards to Rogaland, and not least from Kristiansand to Oslo. That's why we've fought for E18. We are grateful that we have received Grimstad-Kristiansand, which is a great project. Now we fight for Arendal-Tvedestrand. Note that it's Arendal-Tvedestrand we're talking about. I've heard the most about Lillesand, but it's Arendal-Tvedestrand who is now going to have a new road map, and that's the planning of the one to be financed. We are pleased that this route was mentioned in the NTP for 2010–2019. There are many accidents and lots of queues and traffic. Last night, when I started late from Grimstad and thought I would be in Oslo around midnight, I came to Oslo at 2:30 p.m., because we were in line at midnight on the routes where we have a European road. What is so strange in this case is that it all started when one discovered that there were no planning agents, and that there were no planning agents when the Council of State last distributed additional planning materials. I was a little shocked. Several municipalities and county councils proposed to forge the money, but it ended up with a case in the district of East-Agder that developed strangely. When the need was 50 million. kr for planning a road billing, there was a rematch about the location of a bomb. So raise one on some walking and cycling paths to suck the pill for those who had to taste the cost of this bomb. Jammen got a small majority – that's what's real – in the county. There was a solid minority who said that creating a new bomb is not applicable. Municipalities and county councils in the neighbouring state have also given clear information that this is not the way to do it. So when the Council of State and the rapporteur refer to the solid majority, it is not solid. So the Council of State says that rematching is completely OK in the placement of bombs. So, after the new road has arrived, people have looked at where the bombs are and bus routes have been changed, you suddenly have to change the bomb structure. It's totally okay, says the Council of State. No, it's not okay, our politicians in East-Agder believe, and fortunately our politicians here on the Storting. It's shown the justice that when you swing out of Lillesand, it's the same thing if you drive east or west. Again: this concerns the road between Arendal and Tvedestrand. Yes, whether you drive east or west, you have to pay 30 kroner – that's justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1451	A new E18 – Arendal – Tvedestrand – we are delighted. It is a necessary and long-term project. But what's special about this case is that the government is moving limits on toll collection – in the long run, perhaps beyond the unwarranted. Tolls for the planning of E18, Arendal-Tvedestrand, a road that may not be built in the foreseeable future, and perhaps not by this government, are to be decided today. As the previous speaker, I would like to point out that this is Arendal-Tvedestrand. So it becomes a solar breach of the principle of utility. Tolls shall be paid by those who use the way for which the money is to be used. This is not the case. The bomb is placed between Kristiansand and Lillesand, and the road to be planned is between Arendal and Tvedestrand. Not enough: there is already a bomb from before on the E18 between Kristiansand and Lillesand. Now the government wants to have one more – that is, two bombs between two neighboring cities. You have to pass both of these to get between Kristiansand and Lillesand. The consequence of the Progress Party's proposal, the consequence of saying no to this extra bomb, is not that the road is not being planned. It's completely wrong to claim it. If we were to introduce a principle today that all roads, including state and European roads, are to be planned with toll money, we are completely out of business. This is a state responsibility. It has been largely done by the State now, and it should also deal with this matter. Nor should we underestimate the fact that in the case of this second bomb, it can be a significant underlying factor for those who want this new bomb, namely to prevent trade leakage from East Agder to West Agder, among others. because tax is introduced in practice for all those who come from East-Agder and are to act in the South African Centre. When the government shows a lack of principle and does not take into account the principle of usefulness in the toll collection, the government opens up the possibility that there will be completely different considerations underlying the location of the tolling stations than that of the road users to pay. It is regrettable, and there may be doubts about what is the purpose of toll placements in future projects elsewhere. This has led to strong reactions from, for example: NAF, which believes that the government's course of action is completely unacceptable. NAF asks, as was said by a previous speaker, that the necessary funds be made available. The new boom shall collect 200 million. kr in addition to the existing scheme, and it costs 40 million. kr to collect the 200 million. kr. It's a cross of thought in itself. It is far too weak that in perhaps the richest country in the world you can't even plan a state road without tolls. Now we're on the slightly overarching part of this project. The long-term consequences of adopting proposals which are negative for roads, drivers and residents in this country. And the long-term consequences must be that the government is forcing local authorities to make toll projects, and then to get a washout from the government parties that this is voluntary. There is no local consensus in this project, because the host municipality of Lillesand, where the bomb will be standing, will not have the bomb at all. This shows that there is no local consensus. And as I said earlier, this project – and this decision that is now coming – is a project that is negatively moving toll limits. And as I see it, there's a lack of long-term thinking about what, and how, toll collection in the future should be when we first have to have it. It must be the users of the road who pay for it – and not as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1464	Today's Evening Post has been a topic in debates we've had in the past. It's not exactly the same as what we're dealing with right now, but an example that the head of development is drawing out there, which can help delay processes, is local conditions. In this case, it's a little topical: what happens if there's local disagreement? There's a lot of the disagreement going on here, and it's drawn, among other things. as an example of why the proposition presented today is opposed. I understand that someone doesn't like tolls. I also understand that someone does not want a toll. But as the Workers' Party sees it, there's a reasonable and fair sharing we're now doing. The fares are halved in the average of the day, and there's a new cut where it hasn't been before, at a rate that's equal to the new fare in the old cut. Through the new bomb, where there has been no toll, the road users drive on a completely new four-field road. The road came first, and then one now has to pay tolls – this is part of a package. The representative de Ruiter has already explained several of the different aspects and for the whole of this case. Let me remind you that decisions have been taken in the Aust-Agder district on the basis of this proposition, and the parties that are opposed to this case and to what the proposition puts forward have voted for in several municipalities – including the Advance Party. I would like to quote Lillesand’s rapporteur – and the group leader at the county council – from the Right, who is now fighting with beaks and claws against what he said in the East-Agder County Committee in June 2010, as expressed in the Agderposten on 1 June this year: ‘This becomes a difficult matter to sell to those in Lillesand who are going to the Kristiansand Centre, who must pass two beams. But this is probably the best option." He was right about that. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party are engaged in local anchoring. It's important. Local agreement, they're also concerned about. Local agreement, or lack of such agreement, is the reason for opposing the case and maintaining the current collection system. When we look at all of the municipalities that recommend the solution that lies in the proposition, the argument falls on rock bottom. To continue today's arrangement is not local agreement! Then it's about choosing. The Labour Party chooses to follow the majority's decision in the Aust-Agder county council and a majority of the municipalities in East-Agder, and – as I said – the solution that Lillesand's rapporteur thought last year was the best option.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1482	Yes, let's enjoy what's positive here. That's where we agree. We keep progress on the E18 Tvedestrand–Arendal, and we get a lot of walking and cycling routes – half to Lillesand–Birkenes, I just want to underline it. But anyway, this is a much more sensible and a much more fair order. It's much more fair to share the boom. It should have been done, as I said, regardless of whether we should have increased the income base. No one complains about the 1,300 million kroner being transferred from the boom in Gjerstad to Grimstad and Kristiansand. I haven't heard anyone here today! I have also not heard anyone in the local/regional debate who has said that we think it is terribly unfair that we get that money, and we would like to pay them back. No one has said that! I get to say the same thing as a popular expression for the time being: I'm not angry, but I'm very, very disappointed, especially about the Christian People's Party and the Right in this matter. So they're going to cement an unfair system, for eight to nine more years! They don't just want to extend by half a year, no, they want to cement today's toll structure for eight or nine more years. That is what they are proposing here today. So thank you very much, county food rapporteur Oddvar Skiaa of the Christian People's Party! You're actually the one who's fronted this case the most. You've been tough, and you've taken the political burdens – political burdens like the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber don't dare take. And a thousand thanks to the Christian People's Party in Grimstad, the Christian People's Party in Arendal, in Tvedestrand, in Riser and in Gjerstad, who have done the same thing, and who obviously believe that this is a much more fair solution. I have to say I was somewhat disappointed that the representative Ropstad seems to be more interested in what Vest-Agder thinks about the Aust-Agder package than what his own party traps in Aust-Agder think about the Aust-Agder package. In the case of the representative Harberg, it must be disappointing for his voters in Grimstad that he wants to continue sending the bill to Grimstad's population, a bill that has been sent all since the pre-collection of the old E18, and that maintains today's bomb rate of $30. I know that Grimstad municipal government is strongly opposed, and that Harberg's party traps in Grimstad are strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1495	The President recalls that all speeches are to be made through the President, and not in du form, even if the rapporteurs are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1498	I would like to inform the Christian People's Party and Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad that the Advance Party will have a four-field road from Oslo to Stavanger. The consequences of the Progress Party's policy are that the roads are built with state resources. The consequences of the Christian People's Party and the politics of the other parties are that the government sends the bill to the drivers. What happens is that the decision taken here at Stortingen indicates the method of funding used. It was completely new to me that the members of the Progress Party in municipalities in East and West Agder voted to split the bomb. I was quite interested to find out which municipalities it is. Then I have one thing for the Council of State, if I'm allowed: the Council of State said earlier today that this is a package. When it comes to packages, I get completely different associations. A package is something you get, not something you have to pay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1507	I'm not going to join in and pull this debate out. As we can record, the Aust-Agder bench is full in the Chamber in the debate, and that is because this is a matter of great concern. There are geographical differences depending on where you live. But I think it's going to be weird part of what's said, that those who paid in the east, and those who paid in the west -- yes, it's transit traffic, and there's a lot of people who drive half the way, and a lot of people who drive all the way, so it's not like those who live in the east just paid in the bomb in the east. No, all who are from all over East Agder, or West Agder, and drive to Oslo, or Rogaland for that matter, pay in the bomb in the east. So the calculation of those ruins becomes a little bit too simple. I also registered two things. He was talking about my voters in Grimstad. Now I'm so lucky that I know that I have choices elsewhere than in Grimstad, actually throughout the East Agder, and I'm here on behalf of all of them. He said they had to take the bill in Grimstad. Grimstad is probably the municipality that comes out of it unimpaired in relation to commuter patterns for the local population. They pay the same thing anyway, so that's not what's behind it. No, that's a whole idea of what we're talking about in this package. The predictability of citizens when they establish themselves, when choosing a job, when choosing their place of residence, when choosing whether to use public transport or a car, is an important piece. And then the other thing that's talked about the utility and the cost of making the changes that are proposed here, but it's a total package. Then I have to tell the representative Gorm Kjernli that it is often a good idea to have the whole connection when you quote someone. Yes, Arne Thomassen came with a heart attack and said that it's probably a good way to do it. But he also said that now we have to figure out the alternatives, so that we know what we're going to go for. It's a very important continuation of the sentence; it changes the entire content when you subtract it from a context. It's been said all along. I just want to make it clear that the Right both locally, regionally and here in Stortinget is going for an extension of the package. The issue is whether to use money to invest in a new bomb in a place other than where this route is to be planned – funds are planned for the Arendal–Tvedestrand route. We think that is unreasonable and a poor investment, especially since we are well ahead of the form of the collection that is already in place and that works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1522	I met this case locally for the first time on a visit to East-Agder, and there were several representatives from both the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party who took the opportunity to secure both the planning tools for an unclosed stretch and better conditions for walking and looking. One thing is to ask questions about it, something else is to formalize this as it is done here from the Aust-Agder county office's side. The decision today shows that yes, it is possible when there is local willingness to follow up a package. The East-Agder package is already there, and was meant to be a cohesive extension throughout the East-Agder. When it comes to transit traffic, which Harberg asked questions about, this does not mean anything to transit traffic. They don't pay anything more or less, anything from or to, but the debate goes locally. There are two things that I just need to clarify in conclusion, and that is the claim that this is a new principle in connection with a package. It is not. At E6 Dal–Jessheim, funds are required for planning the next parcel, at E18 Gulli–Langåker the same happens, and there are planning tools for Bommestad–Sky. This is done before. And then it's a pleasure for me to inform in relation to the Progress Party and Right's comment, as he says – they're actually writing something about charging tolls to a road that today's government doesn't build: is there something that's absolutely certain, whatever kind of government we're talking about, it's that exactly this stretch – Arendal-Tvedestrand – is being built? For today's debate has shown that it's not just the government that here is helping to set up a case that advances the means of planing, it's actually a mass growth that sees the necessity of this road being built. They do not need to re-market that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1533	During the debate I have been informed several times by my co-representatives, and I am so pleased. But what I'm most happy about is what the Council of State clearly says from time to time: that the road is coming. I think it is a little sad that this debate goes out between some strange representatives from Aust-Agder, because the matter is so much more important than arguing about solutions. That is why I have said what I have said: the most important thing is that the road is being built, it means the Christian People's Party clearly and clearly, and then we have gone through the matter, in good dialogue with our representatives, both from the county and locally, and found out what we think will be the best solution. And then, because we mean the road is so important, we go in subsidiary to the government's attitude. However, there is a need to comment on some of the information that I received during the debate. The representative Kjernli says that there would not be a majority to continue with today's solution. Now, I guess it hasn't been out for the hearing or the referendum in any way, so I wouldn't say it can vote, because I think there's a lot of people who would look at it so that just prolonging it would be a good way to do it. To the representative of the Ruits, who is very disappointed with me: I regret that. I don't like to disappoint the Ruits, but to my defense, I would say that I am proud of my deputy rapporteur in East-Agder, who has made an effective effort. Without him, the pressure on transportation would probably not have been as great as it has been – at least not pressured on the railway – and I am glad that he has. Also in this case he has turned around and found solutions that he thought were good. So we've gone, as I said, a good round in our party, and the East-Agder Christian People's Party has given me backing to fight this case into the big crowd, where we've had good rounds. But to the representative of the Ruiters, I would say that if it's as unfair and as violent as it's said, maybe the solution that they're outlining should have been viewed ten years ago. It could have been right with a lot more booms. I personally am a personal supporter of the fact that when you just drive past them, and that's not the same cost as when you set them up, it would be more natural. But now it's not like that! And with today's system and today's collection, the bomb would probably not have to stand any longer either, so I don't think it's that problematic. Finally, to the representative Vokskesen: No, I'm going to interpret you positively. The consequences of the government policy of the Advance Party would certainly be four-fielded, and preferably OPS, which we have good examples of in the South. But the consequences of today's political situation are that if there had not been a local initiative, the planning resources would not come. And if the planning equipment hadn't come, as the government now accepts through the bomb package, this road wouldn't have been built. But now they're coming, and then the planning's done before, and then we're going to press it so that it comes in an earlier phase of the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1549	I want to continue my thank-you speech. It was abruptly interrupted instead. I want to thank the Right in both Grimstad, Arendal, Tvedestrand, Riser and Gjerstad for supporting a split of the boom. I expect that the representative Harberg has some voters in those municipalities as well, and not just in Grimstad. I would also like to thank the Progress Party in Gjerstad for supporting a bomb solution. That's what they did on the local government. Then I guess I can also thank the Progress Party in Risør, because after reviewing the protocol, only one voted against, and there were three advance party representatives present at the City Council meeting that dealt with the matter in Risør. Otherwise, I have a few comments to make to the representative Harberg when it comes to quotations and Thomassen. The quote that the representative Kjernli came with was, as far as I know, from a leader in the Agderpost. Very familiar Thomassen has done a complete reversal in this matter, and I think that right should admit. I don't think my presentation is too simple. It is easy to see what will be the result of a new bombing scheme: it is a halve of the rate for those who travel from Lillesand to Grimstad, and it is a halve of the rate for those who travel from Grimstad to Lillesand – and it may not be entirely unimportant for Grimstad’s people and businesses. So finally a little bit about the right locally, and that there's a majority against this solution in the right local. No, I think there's actually a majority in the Right Local for this solution if we count up what the Right has voted in the different local governments. The representative, Ropstad, points out that I think it's sad. No, I think it's a happy day, and I share that view with Ropstad. I also share that view with Ropstad that we should have done something about the toll station structure a long time ago. It's unfair. It is simply unfair that that bomb is on the border of Grimstad municipality, but then it does not help to wait eight to ten years to do anything, and say that we compensate for today's injustice by seducing the injustice. No, we're doing something about the injustice, and we're dividing the bombs. So, dear county commodity rapporteur, Mr. Skiaa from the Christian People's Party, here in the Chamber today follows the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, and perhaps the Left, up the work that you've been working on when it comes to dividing the bomb.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1563	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4415]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1579	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1588	The case concerns representatives from Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen and Arne Sortevik in 4 billion. extra in the immediate allocation of maintenance measures on the road network. The Progress Party shall propose an additional immediate allocation of 4 billion for maintenance actions on the road network. kr this year, 2011. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party. The other parties will probably explain their views. The state of Norwegian road network – national and county roads – is not good. In 2009 and 2010, the maintenance seat drivage has increased. The government's ambition for 2011 is not to increase the backlog further. There are different views as to whether this year's budget will be possible. The starting point for the Progress Party is that the country has now had two harsh winters that have made it worse. We have had two hard winters that have gone hard on the road network. 2010 – of the two years mentioned – is also the first year of administrative reform, where the counties have been responsible for 17 000 km more. Former highways have become county roads – more precisely: previously poorly maintained highways have become poorly maintained county roads. Many states say they are struggling with this coercive task. They need financial assistance to upgrade the increased county road network. The state of Norwegian road network is not good. In 2010, the State Road Service itself measured 53 pst. of the county road network had a tyre condition of poor or very poor. There were great variations between the states. We can't have it that way. The county road network itself is the backbone of the value creation across the country. Poor roads result in increased distance congestion, increased costs, increased transport time, unnecessary transport damage, increased traffic risk and reduced competitiveness. That is why the Progress Party is proposing an extra package for road maintenance. What does the government say – the Minister for Transport? Yes, in a letter dated May 11th this year she says: ‘The proposers propose an additional allocation for maintenance in 2011 of a total of DKK 4 billion. In the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, it is not possible to use so much extra for maintenance in the current year.» Later in the letter it says: ‘The Ministry of Transport refers to the proposal to designate means of maintenance on the county road network. [[...]] In principle, any increased appropriations for maintenance on the road network should take the form of framework grants.’;» The government parties follow up: the unrealistic surrender policy of the Progress Party will not be feasible. Let's see what we're actually proposing: 4 billion. kr broken down between national and county roads. On average, that means 2 billion. DKK of 19 counties. If we divide that equal, it's going to be 100 million. kr on each. But we've been more thorough than that. The proposal for a representative gives a breakdown between the counties based on the length of the road. It's also suggested that 1 billion. DKr of the 4 billion. kr shall be earmarked for maintenance of bridges and tunnels where there is a particularly large backlog on the maintenance side. The table is on page 2 of the proposal. Some taste buds: Eastfold will have 120 million. NOK to roads and 40 million. SEK to bridges and tunnels Uppland will receive 180 million. NOK to roads and 60 million. SEK to bridges and tunnels Nord-Trøndelag will receive 171 million. NOK to roads and 57 million. kr for bridges and tunnels If this is the case, the government parties say: the unrealistic surrender policy of the Progress Party will not be feasible. More flavoured pieces: Buskerud's going to be $132 million. NOK to road and SEK 44 million. SEK to bridges and tunnels Telemark will receive 122 million. NOK to roads and 44 million. kr for bridges and tunnels If this is the case, the government parties say: the unrealistic surrender policy of the Progress Party will not be feasible. This considers that the Progress Party is both possible in time and capacity and is sound. If it is to be pinched over time, the funds can later be transferred from 2011 to 2012. The capacity is thought to exist both in the Norwegian market and through foreign entrepreneurs. When I talk to smaller entrepreneurs all over the country, they say that there is capacity. We have noticed that the protests from the government parties are not followed up, fortunately, by the Right or Christian People's Party, but that the two parties point to the same thing as the Progress Party, namely that there is a need for extra funding for the road network. The Progress Party therefore promotes its own proposal for additional efforts and believes that it is fully viable to implement it in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1647	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1650	There is no doubt that it is important for both the availability and safety on Norwegian roads that we take care of and maintain the roads we have. It's a cross-political desire to do that. Therefore, the aim of the Workers' Party and the Government is to re-establish the maintenance set-up on Norwegian roads. It's a formidable task when we know how it's evolved over the years. No country ever gets there that all roads are in tipping top position at any time – in Utopia maybe, but there are few of us living there. But there is no doubt that we have a job to do to improve road standards in Norway. With the 2011 maintenance budget, we stop the fall due on Norwegian roads. Now the job starts to resume. When the maintenance budget increases by 60 pst. From 2010 to 2011, there is no doubt that this will be taken seriously. I am still somewhat more uncertain about how seriously I am going to take the representative proposal from the Progress Party, which will therefore have an extra allocation that is almost three times greater than what we spend on maintenance in 2011. How do they think it's possible to use 4 billion? Extra in seven months? It's a mystery. But it is a bit polite of the Progress Party saying that they are opening up for that money to be transferred, when we know what criticism has come earlier when money has been transferred from one year to another. We know that within existing contracts, the State Road Service has the opportunity to increase the contracts by up to 15 pst. of the contract sum. It totals 270 million. kr for the national and county road network. New tenders are possible, but not in the order of 4 billion. kr this year. It's nice to suggest billions of popular measures. It probably doesn't make sense for a party that says it wants power. When the county councils assumed responsibility for the new county roads in 2010, the framework was strengthened by 1 billion. In addition to the money the state had spent on the same roads, which the counties also got. This framework continued in 2011. So there's more money for those roads now than before, if the states spend the money on transportation. Experience shows that the states are doing it pretty much, and some more. The counties take responsibility, and that's good. A county that doesn't take that responsibility, but that put some money on book, is my own county Akershus, run by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. If the Progress Party is concerned about the counties as weighing owners, they should go to their own and not to the Workers' Party. We gave the counties more money. The blue-blue picks not to use them. This is bad news for the inhabitants of Akershus, who are getting worse roads with right and right party policies. Strengthening the maintenance of roads will be an important task in the future. This task will be undertaken by the Labour Party and the Government. But we know, like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, that we cannot go along with the present proposal of the Progress Party. It's not feasible. That is why the parties to the government are opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1665	Anyone driving on Norwegian roads, almost wherever you drive, notices and notices that the quality of the road is very poor. It doesn't help that the red-greens owe it to the previous government, when Norway has been socialistly ruled for almost 50 of the last 66 years. Then it seems tame and banal to blame others, which today's government does about daily. Road maintenance is important, something that the Workers' Party has been doing for years. That's why we have to look into our eyes – whether we want to or not – that something has to be done. It needs exceptional measures to deal with some of the roaddelays. When the state transfers 27,000 km of roads to the counties, it also has to keep enough money with it so that the counties can do a better job than the state has done. Otherwise, it suspiciously reminds us of those who think the bills disappear when they are thrown. There is too little money allocated if the state transfers as much money to the states as they used on the roads. Then the result will be as it is now. We've seen how the decay flourishes when you spend so little money, and the states can't magic more than the state can. 4 B.C.E. kr for immediate action should be a narrow matter when the government has earned 23 billion. kr more in oil revenue than budgeted, and only to date this year. For East-Agder, according to our model, it would be $96 million. extra kr for road maintenance and 32 mill. kr for maintenance of bridges and tunnels. For West Agder, which is also close to my heart, it will be 126 million. NOK 42 million for road maintenance. kr for bridges and tunnels. Both states want to make good use of the money, and the inhabitants would have gotten better and safer roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1678	We have written from the Right in this setting that we have a great deal of understanding of the reality description of the proposers. We think it's almost right. That is why I am a little surprised by the government and government parties here in the Chamber who are choosing to attack the proposal as unprofessional. I'm not going to go into any characteristics of the proposal and the pace as such, but I think a little more humility would have been in place, when you open the newspapers daily – including professional magazines – and get reports on how the roads are getting worse and how people feel about the roads. That's what we're responsible for here, we have to take over. I think that may not have been particularly prominent on the part of the government parties so far at least. All the parties in this room are responsible for the situation we've come into. There's no doubt about it. Clearly, for quite many years there has been insufficient priority for maintenance in relation to investment. But that's how we choose to handle it today, which separates us. From the Right, we believe that road capital must be maintained at a reasonable pace, otherwise costs will only be unnecessary in the next round. Or in order to use central participation: Weapon must be cultivated in order to continue to improve and pass on to the next generations. I want to hit a blow for a little bit of innovation. From the Right, we have repeatedly launched a maintenance fund where returns can go unabated – and completely independent of other budgetary considerations – to re-establish this huge lag, as well as the maintenance tasks that are urgent every year. Then we would get to the goal much faster than the government describes in its documents. Once again, I invite the Council of State to express itself on this matter. In my opinion, she has launched several uplifting thoughts about the next NTP that go far in the direction of what we have proposed in a number of other fields. So maybe this could also be a line that the state council and government could turn on. At least there is no doubt — everyone sees it — that there is a need for exceptional measures to put the roads in the position they should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1687	Infrastructure maintenance is very important, I share the views of the proposers. I believe that a large and broad majority in the Grand Duchy is concerned about and sees the need to maintain and invest, to ensure that we get more visibility, and to increase road safety. I am very pleased that the government in the 2011 budget has allocated funds to stop them falling due on the road network in Norway. A maintenance grant of 1,55 billion. kr in 2011 is an increase of 60 pst. It is a significant increase. 3 600 km of road will be covered during this year. It's going to mean a lot. It is important that the aftermath is repeated. That is why we also have to make it difficult to bet on maintenance in the next budget, so that we can take back what has been neglected for many years. The county councils build roads like never before. They maintain and build new in great style. The criticism of taking responsibility has ceased. It's very little negative to hear about the new weigher. On the contrary, they have taken responsibility in a very good way. With regard to the concrete proposal of the Progress Party, I refer you to the letter from the Ministry of Transport, which points out that it will not be possible in the current year to make use of such a commitment when we are so far out this year. But in addition to what Mr Kernli pointed to, it is known that there is also to be a call for tenders and that there is a comprehensive process related to it. It will also take time. It'll take months before it's ready, and then we're almost at the turn of the year. Then it won't have much effect for this year. In addition, it has been shown that within the existing asphalt contracts it is not possible to increase more than up to 15 pst. on the national and county road network. So it is at the bottom of what I see as positive from the proposers in this matter. That being said, the State Road Service shall further address the need for operation and maintenance up to proposals for the roll-out of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, or the decision that we are to take in 2013. This work also includes an assessment of what is needed to re-establish the maturity of the road infrastructure. Then we get a comprehensive overview that makes it possible to make a strong commitment to maintenance even in the next NTP. That is what we need to do if we are to have the progress in development and maintenance across the country that is necessary for both road safety, accessibility and increased value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1702	The government believes that the maintenance of the Norwegian road is very important. The permissions of the road are now at an historically high level. In the 2011 budget, there is a total of 1.55 billion. kr for maintenance. It will ensure that the due date on the road network stops. That might not sound so impressive, but we have to think about what a formidable problem we're facing here. Here are many years of what we might call omission sins. A month or two reminder is currently in progress, but a great deal of action is taken here. In the context of the work on the eta proposal for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the State Road Service is asked to address the need for operation and maintenance. This also includes an assessment of what is needed to re-establish the maturity of the road infrastructure. I record that the Committee’s plurality, with the members of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People’s Party, refers to the State Road Service’s monitoring of the maintenance mission. The majority believe that this does not improve the road network, but may lead to a postponement of the upgrading of the road network and therefore to further deterioration. I must say myself deeply disagreed in this claim. In order to ensure that we get the most way for the money, it is decisive that the effort is corrected to the point where it is most useful. Road authorities must have a maintenance plan. The sections with the greatest need must be improved first. Then the proposers have proposed an extra In fact, I must be allowed to remind you that it is not just spending resources on the construction market or on existing asphalt contracts. Offer needs to be lighted up and offer needs to be reviewed. In addition, flat-rate clarifications are often required prior to work, and all this takes time. The state road system is unable to spend so much more on maintenance this year. So I noticed that there are also proposed ear-marked means of maintaining the road network. Following the management reform, the new county road network is well funded in line with the main principle of funding for the municipal sector. Framework funding provides room for local priorities based on local needs and provides a pool of little administration and the most efficient and accurate use of resources. As a matter of principle, any increase in the licenses for maintaining the county road network due to the presence of frames should be considered. I've taken my measurements to a top-notch modern highway network in the next 20 years. It's based on the tribal network arrangement that the etats have come with so far. I think there are three important premises for that. The first is more funds. The second is more efficient planning, and the third is building more coherently. So there should be a fourth point here to get this to. It is better to take care of the road network we have today. When it comes to the situation on the county road network, there is no doubt that there is a lot to be repeated. So in 2010 we sent over funds that followed the roads that the county councils took over, corresponding to the standard that they had then, so 1 billion. kr extra that was passed on, and in addition the interest compensation that gives the possibility to use up to 2 billion. kr more. I am pleased that there are many county councils who have followed up here, that there are many county councils who know their responsibilities so far that they have even had their own resources in addition to what was involved in taking over the roads. The more surprising it is that there are actually states that have found to prioritize down and other purposes up. That's also an example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1724	Two questions: Does the Council of State consider that there is no need for more money to maintain highways and highways in 2011? As far as I remember -- if you're looking for a little bit in the revised budget -- it's zero to find. Does the Council of State feel that there is no need for more resources? The second question is, if there's going to be more money, how much can you take away? What is the Council of State's view on how much can be avoided by additional means of road maintenance in a revised budgetary context? We're almost there now – we've come to the beginning of June. Or is it that the Council of State actually says that it is not possible to grant additional funds, in addition to what it has at all times dimensioned as the amount of responsibility when the budget for 12 months is dealt with in October, November and December, before the start of the calendar year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1734	In the revised budget, it was important to give more priority to both planar products and more to road safety measures. The latter is also in itself better maintenance – i.e. following the E18 to the E39 and ensuring road safety, middle parts and other repairs along that road. That is what we found to be a priority in the budget for this sector. And so is it that we asked the State Roadway about how much was needed to stop the decay. We got answers, and they got the funds. With the experience I have from the turn of the year 2010-2011, I dare not answer exactly that they will not be able to use any more funds in 2011 if they have had more at their disposal. But that's $4 billion. kr is clear outside of all numbers, is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1741	There has been a theme here on the priorities of some states in relation to the road sector following the transfer of tasks. I do not ignore the fact that what is happening in this context is precisely what Right warned against in this reform: that you are so hungry on other tasks and in other sectors that you have to spend the money there. That's probably the explanation for this. Then the interest-rate compensation scheme is drawn back and forth from the Council of State. Of course, an interest-rate compensation is good. But the loans that are raised have to be repaid anyway, so that's going to be a significant extra cost. My question to the Council of State is, will she continue this interest compensation for the next ten years? Is it going to be restated, so that it gets the same value – or maybe it's going to be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1748	To the county councils’ priorities: I agree that there may be different needs on the ground. I know from my own state, Rogaland, that there is something red-green wound compared to the fact that a disproportionate amount of new funds are being used for a further school that ensures a new and better advanced school, but does not provide new student places. So it might be a little bit different, but that there's a local one that has to figure out how to use the funds that come in the framework of the county councils, I'm sure. The interest compensation is reported in the national transport plan. If he's going to be upgraded, we'll come back. [[President clubs]] I am now recording in the 2011 budget that it is more than it was in 2010 – an adjustment. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1755	The President will remind the Council of State that when the red light goes out, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1758	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1763	I want to drill a little further, stick to the problem of whether the county is good road owners or not. It is not provided for Stortinget's number that fixes one or the other. That's why they're surprising the signals that the Council of State gives here, me a little bit, because my experience has been that the state has shown a very great commitment and also the ability of within its framework to give priority to just the purpose of transportation. It also applies to Akershus County, which has shown a significant ability, among other things. To bet on collectives, which have our whole need, and which also give increase in the collective parts of Akershus. I thought that was very good. So my simple question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think that the counties have our good wardens this one and a half years they have had the possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1770	The answer to that is yes. When it comes to the numerical aspect, the investigation I have seen is so far from MEF – the Association of Machine Workers – which shows that the county councils have used more funds in total than the state used on the corresponding roads. The final number – i.e. the count of counties – will be held later in June, so we'll see what the image looks like from state to state. Otherwise, it was not I who used Akershus, it was the representative of Kernli who used the example. I used Rogaland, and I think Hareide knows too, from debates that have gone in the newspapers in Rogaland, how the funds have been used there. However, I insist that the county councils are good veigerators. There will still be a frame attack, and then together we will have to provide frameworks that meet the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1779	It may be that the county councils are good road owners, but they are, at least a good part of them, rather daring road owners. They state that they need more help than they have received through the transfers that followed the administrative reform and this uniquely generous scheme we have to borrow money to clean up old, state sins on former highways. It's a little bit of the rug when we share half of our package to the county councils. But the main reason for taking a new line was to follow up the answer I received in the first line. Then, in fact, we agree that there is a need for more, as I interpret the answer, but we disagree about the amount. What is the amount of the Council of State? What does the Council of State think is possible — within the framework and possibilities that the Council of State sees — to dimension in additional road maintenance in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1786	My commitment to stopping the maturity has actually resulted in 60 pst. in increased licenses to the State Road Service from 2010 to 2011 for maintenance. It is then that I have not spent time and I now have the power to explore the state's roadway system on how many millions from or to which they may be able to use. I think it's great that they're now using the 60 pst. and stop the decay, that they provide for the thousand kilometers of asphalt that we have ordered now this summer, that also goes on maintenance, and that they otherwise do what they can to both plan and implement the projects that are planned for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1791	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1796	The Progress Party is talking here about a government that is weakening the competitiveness and competitiveness of Norway, and they are trying to explain to us that they are not pursuing a policy of surrender. So here we're talking about 4 billion. kr. We have three road projects that we talked about earlier today, which the Progress Party also has more money for than all the others. I haven't figured it out, but we're talking about some hundreds of millions here as well. And in addition to this, let me add: all the bombs are going to be removed, they're going to reduce the fuel and diesel tax, the new car tax is going to be removed; just here it's talking about under 60 billion. kr. In addition, this six months – if we are not completely wrong – we have heard a lot about the Progress Party having more money for the most part. That's everything from hospitals to fire schools. Norway must pursue a responsible economic policy that does not undermine Norwegian industrial workplaces and does not increase the pressure on interest rates. When you want to put on more oil money for investment in Norway, it will strengthen the crown. When the dollar rises, it means that we can buy goods abroad cheaper, but it also means that Norwegian goods are becoming more expensive to sell abroad. For the part of the business that competes with the rest of the world, high interest rates and strong crowns are therefore a disadvantage. We lose in the fight against foreign companies. The result is that the companies exposed to competition have to quit people, and unemployment is rising. It is primarily serious for those involved, but also for the economy as a whole. At the same time, interest rates will go up and hit ordinary people with house and car loans, which will increase monthly spending. We need accountability and predictability in the Norwegian economy. The goods have spoken today about all the evil socialists do for the country. I think that Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers should be happy that it is the government we have today that governs the country and not the Progress Party. And in terms of competitiveness and what we do for business, I just remember that since 2005, 250,000 new jobs have been created in this country, two-thirds of them are in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1806	I'll try not to raise anyone, so that's the last post. I just want to point out that, as far as I see, the amount of item 23 in the 2011 state budget, which is traffic supervision, operation and maintenance of highways, is 7 billion. kr. It's a proposal to increase it by 2 billion. kr – that is less than 30 pst. increase — and that is said by the Council of State to be impossible. Let me remind you that the county councils are asking for help to improve the county road network, which is in poor condition. Let me remind you that the national road network in 2009 and 2010 has become worse. The newspapers, the media, have also this year been full of adorable examples of it. The government closes its eyes and closes its ears. The Progress Party believes that more effort is needed on road maintenance. It will by no means destroy the economy. Good roads, on the other hand, lubricate the economy. It is fully justified to increase the dimensioning of road maintenance, as proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1817	Although the Transport Committee is having a debate, I think it is very important to look beyond our area when assessing the policy of the Progress Party. There have already been other representatives. We've just been through a financial crisis, and it actually looks like Norway is getting through this financial crisis. It's no coincidence. We went into it with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and come out with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. It's also no coincidence. As stated earlier, 250,000 new jobs have been created between 2005 and 2009, and most in the private sector. It's also no coincidence. When I hear the Advancement Party and see all the suggestions coming in the field by area, and billions are proposed every week here in the Chamber, I think of a song I heard not too long ago, which sounded something like, "Everything you want, you'll get, everything you point to." That should probably say everything. But I have a question for the Progress Party, and the question is simply, what do you want to give priority to? Is it that it's very easy to sit in opposition and grant billions of dollars every week here on the Storting, or is there any special thing you'll actually prioritize? Is it that you have followed the same policy when you have come close to power? Have you been able to get so many billions out for all good purposes? And also a challenge to the Right: Can the Right be familiar with such irresponsible use of money in areas by area? Is this the party you want to cooperate with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1830	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fooding, see page 4416]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1840	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1848	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 4 and 5, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a scheme in which the employer is compensated financially with a shorter employer’s period and the sick person is compensated at a higher rate for lost earnings, in cases where Nav is absent from his obligations in the sick leave follow-up.’; This proposal will be discussed at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e1935	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Sections 8 to 7a are replaced by the following: § 8-7 a follow-up etc. under the auspices of the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. The seat of employment and welfare shall assess, as early as possible, whether labour-oriented measures should be tested if documented intra-corporate measures do not produce or the member does not have a job. Not later than 16 weeks of incapacity for work, the Chamber of Labour and Welfare shall hold a dialogue meeting between the sick worker and the employer, except when such a meeting is presumed to be clearly unnecessary. The employee, employer, sick person or the State of Employment and Welfare may require such a meeting to be held at an earlier date. A health practitioner or other health professional shall participate in the dialogue meeting if the Working and Welfare Session deems it appropriate, cf. § 25-5 a. The Labour and Welfare Act shall send a notice to interested parties three weeks before the meeting is held. The notice shall state the obligations of employees, employers and health-care providers and shall indicate possible penalties for infringements of the obligations. The employee, employer, sick person or the State of Employment and Welfare may require a new dialogue meeting between the sick person and the employee and the employer. The provisions of the third to fifth sentences of the second subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to such a meeting. At the latest by the end of the sick pay period, the Working and Welfare Session shall re-evaluate whether labour-oriented measures are to be tested. The Ministry lays down rules on grants for on-the-job organisation measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2017	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘25-2 second to fifth paragraphs are replaced by the following: Employer's obligations to draw up a follow-up plan and to conduct a dialogue meeting in accordance with Section 4-6, third and fourth paragraphs of the Labour Environment Act and to participate in a dialogue meeting in accordance with Section 8-7a, second and third paragraphs of the Social Security Act. Not later than when the employee has been wholly or partially away from work for eight weeks, the employer shall give written notice to the Employment and Welfare Session of whether the rules on the follow-up plan and the dialogue meeting under the Labour Environment Act are complied with. Information shall also be provided on sick leavers who have been called to and have participated in the dialogue. The seat of employment and welfare may determine the form in which the information is to be provided. At the same time, the employer shall send the follow-up plan to the State of Employment and Welfare. The employer shall send the updated follow-up plan to the Employment and Welfare Act no later than one week before holding dialogue meetings under the National Social Security Act. At the request of the State of Employment and Welfare, the employer shall deliver a follow-up plan, possibly revised after statutory dialogue meetings.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2049	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2100	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Paragraphs 25-5(a) are replaced by the following: § 25-5 a Penalties in the event of a breach of an obligation to participate in dialogue meetings Disease reporters who do not attend three dialogue meetings, cf. the fourth paragraph of Section 4-6 of the Working Environment Act and the second and third paragraphs of Section 8-7a of the Law, during a period of 24 months, may be charged a fee equivalent to 12 legal fees. The employment and welfare seat shall notify such a fee if it is registered that the sick person has been absent from five dialogue meetings during a period of 24 months. The fee charged is the basis for the periodic penalty payment. When assessing whether a fee is to be levied, account shall be taken of the working situation of a nurse and other matters of importance which may have made participation in the dialogue meetings difficult. Health care providers charged two fees for non-participation within a period of 24 months may be excluded for up to 12 months from issuing health care notifications as a basis for benefits from social security.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2189	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2199	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2401	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Social Security [[an equivalent financing scheme for assistance dogs and service dogs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2466	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Rehabilitation of fv. 34 on the section Grime-Vesleelva in Søndre Land municipality in Oppland is carried out as described in Prop. [[2010-2011]] 103 S Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2499	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size approves the continuous development of the two projects on RV. 2 Kongsvinger–Slomarka and Slomarka–Herbergåsen–Nybakk as mentioned in Prop. 104 S and with a four-field motorway with a width of 22 m. The size assumes that, if necessary, a state regulatory plan is used to increase the road width from 16 to 22 m. The size assumes that, if necessary, the State is pre-estimating funds to keep planned progress and that final funding is entered into the final phase of the 2011 budget.’;» [[2010-2011]] An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote I.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2538	It is the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2555	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inbjørg Vosskensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The budget asks the Government to continue the current collection system of the adopted Aust-Agder package and to finance the measures referred to in Prop. [[2010-2011]] 106 S
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2589	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that funds for the planning of E18 on the Tvedestrand-Arendal route, as well as for the planning and construction of routes and bicycles along E18 and Fv. 402, including full State funding of the project in the final phase of the State budget for 2011.’» The Right and Christian People's Party have announced that they support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2611	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCrons1320 Road Administration of the Member States23Traffic oversight, operation and maintenance of highways, etc., can be transferred, used under item 29, item 30, item 31 and item 72, increased by 2 000 000 000 from NOK 7 170 100000 to NOK 9 170 100000
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2736	The President may inform you that the Stortinget meeting will begin at 9.00 p.m. 9 in the morning – in case someone should have forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-06.ana.ud2372e2774	Thus, today's map has been processed.
