ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e37	The representative, Bente Thorsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e40	On behalf of the representatives of Jon Georg Dale, Tord Lien, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a marking day for the fate of the Jews.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e45	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e48	On behalf of the representatives of Oskar J. Grimstad, Henning Skumsvoll and myself, I propose a solution to the power supply to the mountain area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e53	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e65	In 2010, 40 years have passed since the first Norwegian breeding spies succeeded in putting salmonmeal into marshes in the sea, and a few years later they were able to harvest first-class edible fish. It was the beginning of the modern Norwegian aquaculture industry. Last year the aquaculture industry also marked a second milestone: for the first time the production of farmed fish rounded one million tonnes. It equals 10 million meals every day, throughout the year. Evolutions from 1960 to now have exceeded what most could imagine. In a few decades, Norway has evolved into one of the world’s leading aquaculture nations. It is often said that the aquaculture industry is a young industry. Compared to other primary industries, it is, but the size of the industry and its importance both nationally and internationally indicate that the aquaculture industry is now an adult industry. It is therefore also natural that it is increasingly the subject of public debate on the conditions under which it is to develop further. As the Council of State, my mission for the aquaculture industry is set out in the Soria Moria II Declaration. It says: ‘Promoting further growth in the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework. The sustainable aquaculture strategy shall be taken into account. Efforts to reduce salmontus and escape will be highly prioritised.’ In addition, it says: ‘The development of the farming industry must take account of the wild species.’ The marine industry contributes to export income, activity and employment, especially in many coastal communities. But the industry also has sustainability challenges, especially related to salmon and escape. The marine industry, like all other food production, will have an impact on the environment. The question is how strong an environmental impact we can accept. The limit values to be set for the impact of the aquaculture industry on the environment are a political balance which must be made in the light of objective knowledge of all aspects of the activity. The marine industry is currently one of our largest export industries. In 2010 it exported salmon, rainbow trout and other farmed fish for 33.4 billion. kr. That's an increase of 7.5 billion. kr from the previous year and exports from the aquaculture industry amounted to about 10 pst. of exports from mainland Norway. The increase is largely due to higher prices of Norwegian salmon in the year that passed. Exports of seafood from farming passed traditional fisheries in value in 2006 and last year farmed fish accounted for a total of 62 pst. of the value of the total maritime food export. More than 95 pst. the farmed fish produced are exported, but Norway is also an important market. Farmed fish and shellfish are traded for about 1.5 billion. on the Norwegian market, and figures from the retail trade show that the demand for salmon is also growing rapidly in Norway. The task of the authorities is to create framework conditions which ensure a sustainable and competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry. Some framework conditions are general for industrial activities in Norway. Since we have a high level of wages and prices, factors such as wage developments, exchange rates and interest rates become very important for competitive businesses, such as aquaculture. A responsible economic policy is therefore essential for profitability and the ability of industry to make long-term investments. Transportation is another important area. With a production equivalent to nearly 50,000 full vehicle combinations per year, it is important that production can be transported safely and efficiently to the markets – whether by car, train, aircraft or boat. Other framework conditions are specific to the aquaculture industry. Among them are the conditions for production capacity, establishment, location and operation. The 2005 Aquaculture Act continued to limit the number of permits for salmon, trout and rainbow trout farming. Each permit is additionally demarcated by the system of maximum authorised biomass MTB. As of today, less than 1000 authorisations have been granted, with a total MTB of 785000 tonnes. This regulatory system limits the amount of fish that can be found in the sea at any time and only indirectly regulates the amount of fish that can be produced. The authorisations to breed species other than salmon, trout and rainbow trout are not limited in number. As a result of the administrative reform, from January 2010, the county authorities are examining applications for authorisations for aquaculture. The production capacity of salmon, trout and rainbow trout may be increased by granting new permits to authorities, such as in 2009-2010, or increasing the capacity of existing permits. The last one was planned for 2010 when the government proposed 5 pst in autumn 2009. session MTB for 80 pst. of the coast. However, this was due to the evolution of the salmon. It was decided last autumn that only the farmers in Finnmark and Troms will now be able to extend the capacity of their permits by 5 pst. As you know, the government will review the issue of capacity increase in 2012. A prerequisite for increasing industry capacity is that the increase is adapted to the market and that growth is considered to be environmentally sustainable. In the near future, the issue of capacity increase will be primarily related to the question of what is considered to be environmentally sustainable. The industry may evolve through increased capacity and increased production. But it can also be further developed through new technological solutions, new species and new products. I'll come back to that. A sustainable aquaculture industry is an industry that operates environmentally soundly within the limits of its natural sustainability. The Aquaculture Act has an environmental standard requiring the proper establishment, operation and closure of aquaculture. The general provisions on sustainable use in the Nature Diversity Act will also apply when this standard is managed. The government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry sets objectives and provides important leadership for the future. The strategy is based on five main areas in which the aquaculture industry affects the environment. These are: genetic impact on wild fish due to escape from pollution and emissions of disease, including parasites land use feed resources; The follow-up of measures in the sustainability strategy is important for the government in the coming period. The different measures vary in form and character. Some can be followed up in the short term, while others have a longer-term character. One of the most important tasks will be to establish politically anchored limit values for what is environmentally sustainable. Knowledge of the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry, including wild salmon strains, must be based on input from many disciplines. The development of indicators and limit values must therefore have a multi-disciplinary approach. Minister for the Environment and Development, Erik Solheim and I took the initiative at the end of last year to a joint knowledge seminar to shed light on the knowledge base on the relationship between farmed salmon and wild salmon. The researchers agreed on the main challenges of salmon and escape, but there are shades in the scientific community's perception of the problem. Based on the objectives of the sustainability strategy and current knowledge of the impact of industry on the environment, the marine research institute has recently published a state-of-the-art assessment of the situation of escape, salmon and emissions. In the case of salmoneus and escape, the Marine Research Institute considers that there is a moderate or high probability that the long-term objectives of the sustainability strategy have not been achieved today on the route from Rogaland to Troms. This confirms that the government has a focus on the main environmental challenges and that the actions of the sustainability strategy are necessary. In order to obtain sufficient legitimacy behind management objectives, they should be subject not only to national but also to international quality assurance. This is done within other parts of seafood production, in which the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea ICES contributes in respect of stock management councils, and the European Food Safety Agency EFSA contributes in terms of fish health and welfare. Management should be based on the best available knowledge and the precautionary principle. In the case of escape, ‘farming shall not contribute to permanent changes in the genetic characteristics of wild fish stocks’, which is the objective of the sustainability strategy. Escapes from farming facilities must be kept to a minimum in order to ensure natural diversity. Therefore, the fishing authorities impose technical standards on installations and on operations and supervise compliance. Breeders are responsible for keeping fish in the mermaids. That is why I must also express my regret in this Chamber that we have now had a solid escape in Trondelag. We have now received reports that 175 000 salmon are on the run, and the owners – the management of the company – say that there are serious violations of internal guidelines, internal procedures, which are the background to this. It's very regrettable, and it's very serious. And once again, it's the breeders who are responsible for keeping the fish inside the mermaids and not outside. The government's sustainability strategy sets out to shift the focus from reported escape figures from breeders to escaped farmed fish in rivers as a measure of the environmental impact of escape. The element of escaped farmed fish in the rivers has fallen by 60 pst. from the end of the 1980s until today. In the last ten years, the element in rivers has remained virtually unchanged. In many rivers, the element of escaped farmed fish is still too high. So again, the work on preventing escape is therefore highly priority, and a proposal on reinforced technical requirements for food fish facilities has recently been put to the hearing. Work is also under way on a technical standard for farms to contribute to the reduction of discards at the stage of seine fishing. It is important to monitor that installations operate in accordance with the legislation as regards both the standard on installations and disease. From 2010, the Directorate of Fisheries increased its budget by 10 million. to strengthen the oversight of aquaculture. In 2010, the Food Authority and the Directorate-General for Fisheries carried out a total of 1,370 surveillance visits and audits of farms. The objective of the sustainability strategy for pollution and emissions is: ‘All farming sites in use remain within an acceptable environmental state and do not have greater nutrient and organic material emissions than the recipient can withstand.’ All farming sites have an emission permit granted by the environmental protection authorities on the basis of the pollution law. The County oversees that the industry operates within given emission permits, on behalf of the Climate and Pollution Directorate. According to the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the aquaculture industry is the clearly dominant single source for the anthropogenic supply of phosphorus and nitrogen on the coastal stretch from Lindesnes to the border with Russia. Data from the Climate and Pollution Directorate show that the water quality and the reception conditions are along 90 pst. Coastal pollution is so good that there is little or no risk that over-fertilisation from marine farms alone would lead to a risk that the objectives of good ecological or chemical status, under water regulations and the EU Water Framework Directive, could not be achieved by the deadline. On 1 pst. of the coastal route, water quality is so poor that farming is not recommended or current production should be limited. In the remaining 9 pst. there is a potential risk that the minimum good environmental status objective of the EU Water Framework Directive will not be achieved. In the case of disease and parasites, the objective of the sustainability strategy is: ‘Illness in farming does not have a consistent effect on wild fish and, as far as possible, farmed fish grow up until slaughter with minimal medical use.’ As Minister of Fisheries and Coast, I am responsible for fish health both on farmed fish and wild fish, including infections with salmoneus. This field is supervised by the Food Authority, while the Veterinary Institute and the Institute for Marine Research contribute research-based knowledge support. The main disease challenge in the aquaculture industry is currently salmonmus. In the autumn of 2009, the Food Safety Authority reported high lice in farmed fish several locations along the coast and the development of resistance to available lice. The fall 2010 was around the same level as at the same time of the previous year, with large regional differences. The challenges of resistance have not yet been reversed or controlled in large parts of the country. The problems are greatest in southern parts of the Nordic region, in the North-Trøndelag and in Sunnhordland. The development of resistance in Finnmark and Troms has not been reported. The industry has spent the last two and a half years working extensively on leaching campaigns to deal with the lice problems. Figures from the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea show that in 2009 and 2010 the salmon melts migrated with a low lice load. Therefore, for the main purpose of ensuring migratory wild species, the campaigns were successful. On the other hand, the Marine Research Institute shows that the pressure of infection on the sea trout, which is present in the fjord and coastal areas throughout the year, is too high in several coastal areas, particularly in the West. The law on lice control has been considerably tightened in the last two years. The regulatory framework has provided a number of tools for the management of the situation, including: power to impose coordinated operation, set-aside and, if necessary, depopulation on lice sites. In addition, they may establish their own control zones with stricter requirements in areas where the general measures have not had a sufficient impact. Such zones are established both in Hardanger/Sunnhordland and in Northern Trøndelag. Here, the Food Safety Authority has imposed a coordinated suspension and set-aside on farmers in order to reduce the lice load on wild salmonids. The sustainability strategy points to the fact that, in addition to action limits on farmed fish, future leachate control must also focus on interaction between farmed fish and wild salmon. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and the Veterinary Institute, etc. are in the process of research to provide the professional basis for the establishment of maximum levels of salmonids on wild breeds and how they should determine measures in farms. The development of resistant salmonnus underlines the importance of a wide range of instruments and that problems in the long term cannot be solved by increased drug use. Lepidopteran fish is an important instrument in lice control, and it is positive that so many breeders are now using the biological solution. But it is also important not to overtax lip fish. Several actors have now started breeding lip fish, which will be necessary in the long term if it is to be used on a large scale. Vaccine is also a possible tool for lice. Researchers at the Institute of Marine Research and the University of Bergen are soon, in cooperation with German researchers, aiming to map the genetics of salmonnusa, or through. The results can contribute to new treatment methods and possibly vaccine in the longer term. The Research Council launched a research-driven innovation centre on salmon industry at the University of Bergen just before Christmas in 2009. The centre, which has been named Salmon Louse Research Centre, will receive a budget of 200 million. kr over eight years. The University of Bergen has with it the Institute of Marine Research, Norway's veterinary high school and several business actors as research partners. The economic operators themselves will contribute about 25 pst. of the financing. In the area of land use, the sustainability strategy aims at providing the aquaculture industry with: «a site structure and land use that reduces environmental impact and risk of infection». The area structure of the industry, i.e. the location of installations in relation to each other and the flow and water conditions are closely related to the spread of disease and environmental impacts in general. In September 2009, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs set up an expert committee on efficient and sustainable land use in the aquaculture industry. In the light of the strategy, the sample has identified and proposed a new overarching spatial structure to help the aquaculture industry make an efficient and environmentally friendly use of its land. The land structure of the future shall also contribute to the balanced and sustainable coexistence of the aquaculture industry with other interests in the coastal zone. The committee delivered its report on 4 February 2011 and they proposed: division of the coast into so-called ‘contaminated production areas’, divided into a limited number of ‘exposed zones’ with coordinated suspension and set-aside, and where permits are linked to a production area a rule of action linked to losses in production, which is governing maximum authorised biomass in a production area access to the environmental movement of permits from production areas with significant losses to areas with minor losses further development work in order to establish good rules of action for lice and escape – in order to escape that the industry in a production area is responsible for extracting escaped fish from rivers where the genetic input of farmed fish is too much free access to the establishment of land-based production, it is melted and edible fish of different sizes, and for the establishment of closed facilities at sea; I have now sent the report to a six-month hearing to get a wide range of recordings. In the case of feed and feed resources, the sustainability strategy determines that Norwegian farmed fish are to be fed with fish from well managed populations and thus do not contribute to the depletion of marine resources. Salmon is a very energy-efficient livestock. Calculated from an average feed pellet, barely 1,5 kg of marine raw material is used in Norway to produce 1 kg of farmed fish. Vegetable raw materials and raw material from cutting and by-products are an increasing component of Norwegian fish feed. The main source of marine feed raw material is still industrial fish, and the main means of achieving the strategy is to reduce illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, so-called UUU fishing. Norway is also an active driver of the international fight against UUU fishing. In the FAO, the UN Food Organisation, we have achieved a global agreement on port State control, and the FAO is now developing guidelines for demarcating drafts and by-catches. Norway is also actively working towards the EU in reducing discards of fish. Fish feed used in Norwegian aquaculture is produced mainly in Norway. Fish feed producers have a separate responsibility for the import of feed ingredients and the labelling of feed to ensure that the feed contains fishmeal and fish oil produced from sustainably managed populations. Norwegian aquaculture is a research and knowledge-based industry. It has been characterised by a short journey between research and industry and a rapid introduction of new knowledge. Preliminary figures from a survey of marine research, carried out by the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education, NIFU, show that total use was made of 1.3 billion. kr for research and development in 2009. The government financed nearly 50 p.p. of marine research in Norway, while the rest was funded by business operators or others. The institute sector is the main actor in marine research. Overall, almost half of all farm-related research was carried out by the institutes in 2009. About 40 pst. research was carried out by industry, while universities and colleges accounted for 13 p.m. In addition to direct research funding, the aquaculture industry finances research through the research funds of the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The Fund manages the revenue from an R & D levy on exports of fish and fishery products and has set aside 60 million in 2011. kr for marine research. A significant proportion of the funds are used in major projects in cooperation with the Norwegian Research Council, which, within its new Maritime Programme, have six thematic priorities: sustainable seafood production healthy fish future feed other farming species environmentally friendly aquaculture genetics and breeding Follow-up to the sustainability strategy is a high priority in marine research. Priorities are carried out both through increased appropriations and through thematic spin-offs of research funds to the Research Council and relevant research institutes. Another important area is product and market development research, including: directed by Nofima. Facilitating the development of new technologies and production methods that provide more environmentally friendly production of farmed fish is one of the measures of the government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. It could also help to facilitate sustainable growth in the industry. Much is happening — and at a rapid pace — in the field of innovation and technology development in the farming sector. Recent attention has been paid to land-based farming facilities, closed sea installations and extended land phase for seines of salmon and trout. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has recently sent a proposal for an extended land phase testing scheme for seines of salmon, trout and rainbow trout. This may help to reduce the risk of escape, disease risk and mortality. It may also make sense for environmental and economic reasons and may contribute to the development of environmental technologies in the aquaculture industry. The development of technology in the aquaculture industry has been raging in the last 40 years. However, the basic meridian structure is the same. The Government wants to facilitate innovation and technology development and therefore aims to have as much technology-neutral legislation as possible. Through functional requirements and target formulations, as in the sustainability strategy, the government has established a framework for the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry. Then it is up to innovation to secure technologies that can help achieve the objectives of increased production while achieving environmental objectives. Developments are taking place in both national and international research environments. Among other things, the opportunities for offshore aquaculture technologies, i.e.: farming facilities which may be located further into the sea. The authorities may grant research authorisations to develop knowledge beneficial to the aquaculture industry, including: related to operational forms, technology, biology, nutrition, fish health and fish welfare. Such permits may be an alternative for those wishing to test closed installations. Salmon and trout currently account for 97 pst. of the volume produced in the aquaculture industry. The Government is concerned that the industry will have more bones to bear in the future, and research and development projects related to the breeding of marine species are therefore a priority area. Cod is the species on which it is most invested. Then we see that the rearing of cod has proved to be on challenges other than the rearing of salmon and trout, both in the production of juveniles, disease and gender maturation. The research carried out on cod is expected to be transferable to other marine species. Then you just have to admit that developing new species is time- and knowledge-intensive. The government’s commitment to the breeding of cod and marine species is therefore long-term. In addition to fish, aquaculture is carried out on blue mussels, pectinidae and other shellfish species in Norwegian fjords. Fresh water farming, for example, also exists. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, An interest in more rearing in fresh water has been expressed, inter alia: to provide a broader income base in the districts. I will therefore, in consultation with the department concerned, launch a detailed identification of possibilities and limitations, including government-given bottlenecks. Then we see that the interest in growing seaweed is increasing. The Ministry has therefore now proposed regulatory adjustments in order to make the handling of such matters more appropriate. Today, experiments are being carried out on so-called integrated aquaculture, i.e. breeding of several species in the same place, where one species may benefit from the other. It has been shown that, for example: seaweed has good ability to exploit nutrient salts from fish farming as an industry. Seaweed and seaweed can again be used as an input for biofuel production. These are exciting opportunities where we still know little about the potential. Seafood is healthy, simple and tasty, and therefore meets the great global flow of food on many levels. There is no reason to believe that, in the near future, demand in the market will limit how much the Norwegian aquaculture industry can produce and export. The fish export sample calculated that the underlying demand growth for salmon in all markets was 14 pst. in 2010. Among the big drivers of this growth is the sushi segment, which is progressing all over the world. Norwegian farmed fish are exported to about 100 different countries. An important task for authorities is to contribute to good market access. Access to our main market, the EU, was significantly improved after the removal of anti-dumping measures against salmon and trout. The 27 EU Member States are recipients of two thirds of the farmed fish we produce. In particular, the EEA Agreement provides for high rates of duty for processed seafood products. Unfortunately, this limits the possibility of exporting processed products, for example: smoked salmon, to the EU. This year, together with the Norwegian salmon industry, the authorities have committed themselves to the US authorities to try to eliminate the last remaining sanctions against Norwegian salmon. The authorities are also working to reduce customs duties on Norwegian seafood in the current free trade negotiations, including: China and Russia, both of which are important markets for Norwegian salmon and trout. Innovation Norway conducted a survey in 2008 on the perceptions of Norway abroad. The survey found that salmon is the nearest brand to Norway. The Swedes have Ikea, Finns have Nokia, and Norway has salmon. Several studies show that salmon or seafood is one of the first products that people think about when they hear about Norway. This is probably the experience that many people have of their own ability to travel abroad. Norwegian salmon is on the menu in almost every country in the world, and it is not so rare for the foreign taxi driver to start talking about seafood when they say they're from Norway. Last year it was eaten ten million meals of Norwegian salmon every day, all over the world. Norwegian seafood and Norwegian salmon are of great importance as they bear the Norwegian identity, both at home and abroad. It is therefore important that the aquaculture industry has a good reputation. The role of the authorities is to carry out sound and knowledge-based management and to have legislation and supervision that are reliable in the area of the environment and food safety. The industry must maintain its reputation within the framework set, take environmental problems seriously, and show transparency about opportunities and challenges. I want to help people gain more knowledge about this industry, which plays an increasingly important role in our economy. Marine farming is no longer an activity with the heart of the fjords in remote places, which is something we do in Norway. Seafood consumption in Norway should be increased. In ‘Food for the promotion of public health and the prevention of chronic diseases’, which recently came from the National Nutrition Council, fish are recommended for dinner two to three times a week, and preferably as a requirement. At least 200 grams should be fat fish such as salmon, trout, mackerel or herring. Through, inter alia: The National Institute of Nutrition and Marine Food Research provides the authorities with knowledge of the nutritional properties of the marine food we produce. We are actively working with the retail trade to disseminate this knowledge to Norwegian consumers. Through the Fish Prell project, children and young people in kindergarten and primary school gain a better knowledge of the nutritional benefits of seafood, as well as good taste experiences. Fishing sprawl is part of the government's action plan for better diet in the population. It is important that the Nordics know the positive health effects of eating seafood. Dietary councils and knowledge of why seafood is healthy are important instruments; another is the development of products that are easily accessible to the consumer. The Norwegian market is, as I mentioned, an important market for the aquaculture industry. I am very pleased that the industry through the Fish Export Committee has chosen to strengthen the work on profiling and marketing on the domestic market. Over the last few years, more and more producers have developed products for the domestic market. I want to facilitate increased innovation, product development and market orientation in the maritime food industry, including: through Innovation Norway’s marine value creation programme. The Norwegian market should be an exhibition venue for the best seafood industry to offer, so that both Norwegians and tourists feel that they are in a maritime state. Marine industry is important for the national economy, and it is particularly important for the economy of many of our coastal communities. Today, aquaculture operates in about 150 municipalities along the Norwegian coast, from Lillesand in the south to South Varanger in the north. In many of these municipalities, the aquaculture industry and the activities it brings with it are important and partly crucial for both employment and the maintenance of the settlement. Marine use itself is not a particularly labour intensive activity. The aquaculture industry employed about 5 000 persons in 2009. The number of direct employment in the aquaculture industry has remained fairly stable in recent years, despite the fact that production has doubled. In 2009, 450 tonnes of salmon were produced per person employed in the salmon farming industry. Compared to 1990, we see that 60 tons of salmon were produced per employee. In other words, the increase in productivity at farming level has been enormous, and it is important for Norwegian salmon to keep a competitive cost level compared to other producer countries. The marine industry is likely to create as many jobs in other industries as in the core business itself. In a ring-effect analysis, SINTEF Fisheries and Aquaculture estimated that the aquaculture industry, including ring-effects, created 20 000 jobs in 2008. These are jobs in construction, transport, procurement of services and not least in the production of inputs such as seed fish and feed. I am concerned that the aquaculture industry should be made up of profitable enterprises that contribute to creating activity and jobs. There are many good examples of such enterprises. But I also meet many rapporteurs and others who are not so impressed by what farms contribute to local communities. About 80 pst. the salmon produced is exported out of the country as whole fresh salmon, i.e. almost unprocessed. In practice, for many municipalities that facilitate farming activity, the industry creates little or no activity in the municipality in addition to the farming activity itself. From 2009 onwards, municipalities were given the opportunity to issue property taxes on marine farms. Nevertheless, I believe that a marine industry that invests and contributes to activity and employment in local communities is an important prerequisite for the further development of the industry. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will receive an inquiry into how to increase value creation and employment in the aquaculture industry. I think it is important to find models that create incentives for the industry to contribute to employment and activity in the municipalities, and for municipalities to facilitate the development of the industry. Research shows that the maritime food sector, together with the energy sector and the shipping sector, is one of the three strong industrial clusters we have in Norway. The competitive advantage of the maritime industry lies not only in a long coastline and good access to resources, but also in the construction of leading companies and the environment of competence. We can look at the municipalities of Trendelag Hitra and Frøya. For example, there they have. a business cluster in which companies interact at all stages of the value chain for aquaculture and make each other more innovative and more competitive. Fortunately, we find several good examples of this along the coast. Marine farming is growing worldwide, and Norwegian competence in this area is increasingly sought after in other parts of the world. Norway is at the forefront of innovation and development in this area, and we will also facilitate this in the future. Today, the marine industry has challenges on the sustainability side, in particular related to salmonmus and escape. As I said at the outset, what limit values we are going to set for the impact of aquaculture on the environment must be a political balance based on objective knowledge of all aspects of the activity. In some areas we already have a lot of knowledge, while in others there is a need to provide more knowledge in order to make these assessments. The marine industry is an important industry for Norway. The industry is a major export industry, contributing to activity and employment throughout the country, and especially in many coastal communities. The government's starting point is to facilitate further growth within a sustainable framework. Both the authorities and the industry themselves must contribute to the achievement of this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e323	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on the status and prospects of Norwegian aquaculture be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e337	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and State Council Tora Aasland 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e348	There is broad consensus in all parties about the importance of real subjects and the importance of investing in strengthening them. This has been the work of the red-green government since it joined. Already in the spring of 2006, the strategy ‘A common challenge for the real world’ was launched, and the strategy ‘Real science for the future’ was presented in the spring of 2010. The long-term and systematic bet seems to have a positive effect. The latest international studies show that middle class students have improved their performance. Mathematics and natural sciences have many applicants in higher education, and the numbers of applicants for engineering and real-time higher education have increased. Proposals In the document of the Progress Party, the government is asked to facilitate the establishment of four national secondary schools in the field of real-life education. The Progress Party wants its own real-life secondary schools in all parts of the country. These should be open to students from all over the country. I doubt whether this proposal is suitable for strengthening the real subjects. It is the county municipalities that are responsible for secondary education today, and in several counties, it is already secondary schools that profile themselves in real life. As I see it, there are two main arguments against a national initiative for setting up such schools. Firstly, there is reason to believe that these real-time vocational schools can weaken rather than strengthen the real-time investment. Research shows that the social interaction between students is an important factor in learning. By bringing together the most motivated students in their own schools, the other students will lose important resources for learning and inspiration. The professional segregation can therefore provide the majority of students with less knowledge in real science and contribute to fewer selection of these subjects. The second argument is that real-time schools will attract the most skilled teachers, and this will affect the environments of competence of the other secondary schools. Professional cooperation between teachers is an important source of school-based competence development, where the best teachers provide inspiration and transfer knowledge to all teachers in real science. As I see it, it is essentially in this proposal that the great ideological dividing lines lie between the Progress Party on one side and the red-green government parties on the other. Proposal II involves asking the government to facilitate the establishment of four national real-time teacher training courses at master level. Several institutions with primary school teacher education offer master’s studies for teachers. The red-green government is engaged in expanding such offers in real science and other subjects that the primary school needs, cf. the aim of the teacher’s message – about master-level places of study. There is currently a real-life specialisation in the new primary school teacher training in all regions. In addition, the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen, NTNU and the University of Tromsø offer five-year integrated master's programmes, so-called master's programmes, among others. in real science. Candidates from these courses are qualified for work both in primary and secondary education. The University of Tromsø has, in addition to its master’s education in real science, a five-year master’s degree in teaching at primary school and a master’s degree in mathematics as one of the choices of 5- to 10-year education, and in the field of 1-7-education. The University of Environment and Life Sciences also has teaching in real science. Proposal III, which is supported by the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right, is about asking the government to assess how technology and design can be better incorporated into mathematics and aesthetic subjects. Technology and design is a multi-disciplinary topic in the Knowledge Lift. Science has technology and design as a main field, mathematics and art and crafts have their own competence goals in the field. National centres in the disciplines are tasked with developing interdisciplinary technology and design approaches to help schools and teachers. The Natural Sciences Centre has earmarked one of the positions for work on technology and design. As a result of the cooperation of the National Forum for Real Science, the Technology Inspirators are established as broad cooperation between a number of business actors, NTNU and the three national centres. The main effort for the project period 2009–2011 is to provide training for teachers in teaching courses showing the practical application of the real subjects. The technology inspirators arrange workshop courses in technology and design for teachers in mathematics, science, art and crafts and educational choices. Proposal IV is about asking the government to investigate how to make it easier for technologists and other real-time graduates to get school education. The vote will take place tomorrow at 6.30 p.m. But I would nevertheless like to explain the views of the government parties on this. It was initially pointed out by the proposers that, among other things. should make it easier for realists and technologists/engineers to qualify for real secondary and secondary education. The Progress Party points out that there are different practices at the institutions regarding whether candidates who have passed civil engineering/masters in technology are admitted to PPU, i.e. practical education. Most colleges with PPU offers in mathematics give admissions without additional requirements in mathematics, while NTNU and the University of Oslo do not. Recording rules are an authority delegated to each educational establishment, so the provision not to grant admission to the PPU of civil engineers without additional training, such as: Practiced by NTNU is not a decision of the Ministry of Knowledge. Despite this, the Ministry of Knowledge has asked NTNU to reconsider the matter. NTNU's answer, as I see it, is not as positive as the Progress Party later on as. I'm sorry. I want to encourage NTNU to find a solution that involves further simplification for masters who want to be admitted to the PPU. Proposal V is supported by the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right and is about asking the government to make it easier for high school students to receive secondary education. Such a scheme already exists today, and it is enshrined in the Training Act. The Party points out that information on this already existing possibility should be better marketed. Schools shall be informed of this scheme by means of a letter from 2008 addressed to county officials, county councils, municipalities, schools with youth and secondary schools, providing information on the offer. Training is adapted locally and is therefore the responsibility of the county. Proposal VI is about asking the government to submit proposals to strengthen the financing of studies and research in real and technology sciences in universities and higher education institutions. This proposal is also supported by the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right. The government wants to maintain the current higher education funding system, including the current model for the categories of educational incentives. A rise in the category of real science and technology leads to considerable costs, and the red-green government has prioritised the creation of new study places to meet the large youth schools entering higher education and ensuring the future of the society's skilled workforce. It is important for the government to have sound funding for the new study places in order to ensure quality while increasing the volume of the sector. The last proposal, VII, is about asking the government to assess how to increase the salary of real-time scholarship holders. As it is today, universities and colleges place fellows in a payroll framework which is tariffed for the current job code. The vast majority of institutions choose to place new scholarships at the lowest wage level, and grant holders receive annual traineeships after seniority. There is also a job code that can be used where there are special difficulties in recruiting doctoral students. This job code has been used primarily in medicine and partly in law, but there is nothing wrong with using it even in the real world when there are major recruitment challenges. Institutions are currently free to choose the job code and the placement into the payroll framework according to their own assessment of the recruitment situation. In real life, the main challenge is often that there are few or no Norwegian applicants, but there may be many non-residents. We want foreign doctoral students to come to Norway and graduate. They represent a valuable contribution to the Norwegian labour market, and we welcome them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e399	Petter Northug, Marthe Kristoffersen, Martin Johnsrud Sundby, Kristian Tetti Rennemo, Øystein «Pølsa» Pettersen and Johan Kjølstad have two things in common. One is that they ski, and that they're among the world's best at what they do, which we hopefully get documented under the World Cup. The second is that they have gone to the public skyscraper in Meråker. When Ski-VM is over, the VM starts skiing. Tora Berger has also gone to Meråker. Ole Einar Bjørndalen, Emil Hegle Svendsen and Tarjei Bø have all gone, together with Aksel Lund Svindal, to Norway's Top-Citizen Gymnas, a private institution with national admissions, as opposed to Meråker. It just shows that the organisation of these schools, the ownership of these schools, doesn't mean much to the results they achieve, but the national recording matters. In the 1990s it was found that Norway’s position as a leading ham nation was threatened, and the Stortinget took hold. Laws and funding established national lines in secondary schools across the country for a wide range of purposes, including: long-haul and alpine. Now we see the results. And if there is a lot of gold in the Ski World Cup here in Oslo, social democrats, with Minister of Culture and Prime Minister at the head – and preferably representatives of the sports board Jorod Asphjell – will stand in line to congratulate, cheer and take their share of the honor. ‘It is typical Norwegian to be good’ can be mentioned quickly, as it often does when skiing. When the position of Norway in the disc was threatened, Stortinget took hold. We're on the OECD average on PISA results. Countries such as South Korea, Finland, Canada, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Belgium, Estonia and Switzerland are crushing us – in addition to all the Chinese states, including Macao, which are not among the most progressive states in China. Norway is on the level with Poland. At TIMSS Advanced, our big neighbor in the east is in front of a horse head, which can be explained in part by what PISA shows, namely that we have very few with the very highest score. If Norway had been at the level of Poland and Estonia in the results of the Ski World Cup, both the sports board and the Minister of Culture had to leave. If Norway had been on the OECD average in prosperity and prosperity, the whole government would probably have had to go. However, the fact that real-life skills, which have laid and will provide the basis for well-being and prosperity in Norway, are at this level can clearly pass without taking action in sufficient quantity. There is – unfortunately, I would say – no World Cup in physics and chemistry. The Nobel Prize is the closest thing we come. Odd Hassel got the price in chemistry in 1969 and Ivar Giever in physics in 1973. It's the last prizewinner in real science with background in Norwegian school. In the country's capital, the City Council for Growth has established a ballet elite line, and now a separate music talent elite line is to be established. The opposition from the red-greens has not been very visible, and the Ministry of Knowledge does not, fortunately, stop these projects. In the UK, the Right clearly believes — perhaps there is an incursion in committee work — that there is no need for national lines for the greatest and best real-life talents. If this is true, it is completely incomprehensible to me, especially since the Right voted in favour of this proposal in the previous period. Real skills have been the basis for wealth and well-being in the country, from Vikings built ships that could sail longer, in tougher weather and faster than anyone else, and to today's petroleum industry. We can't afford to let this chance go from us. So the government parties say that the offer of national secondary schools for real-time talent already exists. No, it doesn't. The ski gym is for those who are good at skiing. No matter where in the country you live, you get in if you're good at skiing. On the so-called organized offers in today's high school, only students are from their own counties, and in the bourgeois states with free school choices, the students have the best standing positions. With respect to reporting, I don't think you're excluded from becoming a good physicist or a chemist if you don't get top character in body practice or history. But that's the case with the arrangement that the red-greens point to today, as opposed to the one that applies to the skyscrapers. Then I hear that there is no willingness to do anything about the financing of the three-year technology training, which the Progress Party believes should be done with. It is clear that we had to do something about teacher training – it was absolutely necessary and right to do so – but the expensive three-year technology training is still too expensive in relation to how much you get from the state. The consequence is that this type of education is not established when you get free money from the state. This is what the Central Party must take note of, for this is very poor district policy. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals to which we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e431	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e434	Of course, it's fascinating in these times to hear about the parallels to the skeletons, but the question is whether the parallels stay close to the goal. There is cross-political agreement, as it has been said, that real-time investment is important. It's more than important. It can be quite decisive, in fact, and will become even more central in the years to come. What we might disagree about or have different views about is what actions work, whether we do enough, or whether there is a need to do more. Well, there it might be that the opposition's privilege is to be a little bit more impatient than what we think the government is. VG had a big look last year that one thought it was possible to prove that none of the measures that had so far been taken to stimulate an increased interest in real science had worked. But after all, we're looking for a certain light. There's a little bit more interest, there's a little greater search for higher education in different real-life subjects, and the learning outcomes, as they measure, among other things. through the TIMSS study, a conservative improvement is demonstrated. For example, the University of Bergen had: the last harvest of applicant numbers between 10 and 20 pst. to various real-life subjects, and believe that it is the result of a very large and active work on a recruitment campaign. Real science is important and will become even more important for at least two reasons. It's no exaggeration to say that in real subjects, the key to what we're going to live on is in the future, and in many areas that we live on today. A frequently asked question – rhetorical maybe – is: What are we going to live on after the oil? The answer is often: we have to live on knowledge. Then you might underestimate the fact that our oil age is largely based on knowledge in real science and technology. The Norwegian oil industry is high-tech in super-class and the world's most advanced. Development of new technologies, e.g. underwater technology is likely to have already extended the Norwegian oil and gas adventure for several decades. Almost all major challenges both nationally and globally require real science and technology understanding to be solved. It applies in the fields of medicine and health, climate and environment or food and energy, to point to some major global challenges. The second reason why it is important to invest in real science now and in the years ahead is the great need for recruitment. There are large coals of engineers and real-time teachers at different levels who leave at the age limit during the next 10–15 years. These capable people must be replaced by new and hopefully even more competent people in the years to come. It is of course worrying that, for many years now, we have been able to detect a falling level of knowledge among high school students, as measured by the TIMSS surveys, and also that universities and colleges report a worryingly lower level of students they raise today, within a number of subjects, compared to students 15-20 years ago. At least that's what many teachers in the sector report. So we have a lot to do again even though the arrows are now pointing up gently again. Senior care services are also important in schools. In addition to recruiting new people, senior measures are important to get the older, skilled real-time teachers to stand longer in the job. For the right, it is a central measure to put extra emphasis on continuing training. The real tradesmanship of the government has not been weak or bad. The question is whether it is enough, whether the measures are correct and whether they work quickly enough. If I'm going to criticize the government for one thing, it might be that sometimes you make the mistake of counting the money several times. Last year, in 2010, the total real education rate, according to the government's figures, was approx. 200 million. kr, and to be continued in 2011. But within that amount lies the largest item of continuing education for teachers. The government itself often uses the figures for continuing education, almost in the next sentence, so that in this case you count the money twice, and you can get the impression that the total bet is greater than what it really is. Continuing education is important, and the Right wants to invest even more in that field. On the right, three of the proposals contained in the proposal from the Progress Party are supported. In the past, we have raised our own proposals relating to stronger science-centred action, senior education measures at school, increased investment in continuing education and training, etc., as I have already mentioned. We do not support today the proposals of the Progress Party on four national secondary schools in real science or the proposal on four national teacher training courses in real science. When we don't, it's because these proposals can in many ways seem more restrictive than stimulating, in our opinion. There's already a way of strong bet, an extra ambitious bet, in many places, in many municipalities – let me add that the cities we're talking about, mostly right-hand-driven – in high school and in specialisation in real science. It is important to support those municipalities that do something, and it is important to provide funds so that these schools can receive additional funding, if there are good arguments for it. It also applies to real-time research and education. It is possible to strengthen the financing of some programmes, and the arguments must be that there is a need to do so, including: with regard to high costs related to equipment and infrastructure. We do not support it in terms of increased salaries for real-time scholarships, which the Progress Party also proposes. The party to the progress has argued that recruiting for scholarships in real-time education is difficult because of the competitive relationship with private business. The representatives of the sector we've been talking to say that's not the case. That could be the case for medicine. It is then possible for the institutions themselves, as the rapporteur has already done, to do something about it. But there are no problems with recruiting real-time scholarships. We must also remember that the Norwegian scholarship scheme is extremely economical and beneficial, even in an international context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e462	Then we meet again in this room to discuss a subject and a subject area that needs more attention, more students and better education and training – and in the course of that, we imagine that there will be a shortage of professional groups, or educational groups, in our future society. The point is that it applies to real science and related professional groups, but not only to real science. One of the major challenges for Norway in the future is that there are many areas of education and many occupational groups where there appears to be a shortage. That doesn't mean it's not important to discuss this with real science. It is important to state that we have an increased need for training of labour in real science and technology. It has, for example, Both the Advocate-General and Henning Warloe had good points about it, which has emphasised just that. We all agree on this here to land, and this is agreed in most countries around the world. It is an interesting phenomenon, as we have also pointed out in previous debates, that in a society at our level of development there is a falling interest in real science and technology. So it looks like it's kind of a move in social development. We see that he was much more of a hero, an engineer and a social engineer – and I said "he" consciously, because this was a lot about guys – 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Marketing brochures with images of men in yellow helmets marked young people to a far greater extent than they do today, because today youth is often drawn towards other educational pathways and career paths – towards the media and culture, more towards self-realisation. This is going to be a cross of thought. We all agree that in society today we take technology more for granted. That's something that comes to us, and that we very much appreciate, obviously. Not least here in Norway, we are very quick to apply the latest technology, but that's something we take for granted, which we don't even have to care about being involved in developing. Well, that's not how it can go on. A lot of people now realize, not least the educational institutions themselves. It has been realised by the labour market, by educational authorities at all levels. That's why there's already a lot of work done, like, among other things. the rapporteur-in-chiefly underlined, and more about to happen. This seems to produce results, not least because the interest has taken hold. So here's a positive development going on. That's good. As you can see, the debate here will largely be an instrument debate and not a target debate. I very much appreciate – after I first noticed it – that Henning Warloe in his very good posts just underlined the point that there is a great deal of consensus here in the hall. What I'm most responding to at the Progress Party's proposal is more this thinking behind, which, as I read it, is based on a lack of confidence that not least the educational institutions themselves see that there is a need out here, and that the Progress Party sees to a little too little that the educational institutions are very much in the process of meeting that educational need. That's the way it works in this sector, and it works pretty well, because they're just taking responsibility. And then it's our role to stimulate such a development. As far as I am concerned, I fully agree with what Mr Warloe stresses, that these proposals can actually in many ways be more restrictive than stimulating, where one is now trying to meet the need in a broad way. In many ways from below, in a sort of tailor-made way, depending on the individual educational institution, there is a much better way to do this than to put in place some national lines from above. This comparison with special schools for skiing – here we have to clear up a little. Such schools have grown up to meet the need that arises when some young people have such a demanding hobby that they need an educational institution that organises and likes to develop a pedagogy adapted to them so that they can continue to carry out their demanding hobby. It's quite another thing that we pick out one of the schools and give such a special school attention. Then I expect that one in the continuation of such thinking must have similar special schools for language, for social sciences, for cultural subjects, etc. It's an unfortunate development, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e484	When I was a kid, we had a black-and-white TV, and we had a telephone connection where we had to swing on a swing to call the centre and talk to a lady to get started. Today we have TV on a mobile phone that doesn't have wires at all, and we get real-time messages directly from people who are involved in the revolution, like in Egypt. Developments in society are moving at a raging pace. The world is getting smaller and smaller, globalisation is increasing, and what we do in one part of the world has a far greater impact on other parts of the world than before. As the population grows, and together with climate challenges, we face challenges related to food production and clean water. We need to understand the global context. If we are to live in peaceful coexistence, we need to find solutions to the global challenges we face. In short, if you want to help save the world, it is wise to bet on real science! The measures taken by the government to strengthen the real subjects — actions launched in 2006 and 2010 — have now been well explained. There is a cross-political consensus that real science is important for Norway in the future. I think everyone agrees that it is important to increase interest in real science and technology, to strengthen recruitment and implementation and to increase competence. In the last bet, there is also more focus on increasing the recruitment of girls to the real subjects. If we are to increase competence and interest in real science, we must start early. That means we have to have good teachers in the small school class. The approach to the subjects must be practical and exciting. That is why it is good that most teachers ’ colleges have offer of immersion in real science. It is important to encourage teacher-school students to choose just real science as depression, but it is also very important that teacher-training is up-to-date and good. They must be good at subjects, but also at methods and how young people think and understand. Teacher teachers have to go into school everyday life and gain experience from the field of practice in order to facilitate optimal education for their students. In my home municipality, some of the elementary schools have worked especially with a scheme called the First LEGO League. It is a matter of building and carrying out various tasks related to legarobots. They have participated in both national and international competitions. Such an approach to the real subjects is great. Here you connect technology and design through real science. Many of the students say they're going to be something in the real subjects later. Obviously, such an entrance to the real subjects will be inspiring, and it shows the possibilities that lie there. Still, this is just one example. We must not lock ourselves into a single method. There is just the diversity of methods that are important. I don't think it's natural for us at Stortinget to decide that we should have four national real-time colleges. As has been pointed out in the past, several counties already have schools that profile themselves in the real world. There is nothing to prevent schools that have a good real-life environment from using this to attract students who are particularly interested in real-life science or who show a particularly real-life talent from early school. The centre party is engaged in local maritime administration, and we believe that the school structure and distribution of school content can be well managed by elected representatives of the county. So a little short on the proposal for how we can offer technology and design in mathematics and aesthetics better than today. The Committee's comments refer to action being taken here. It all boils down to the fact that it's about methods and consciousness. Methodological awareness and opportunities must be taught, as I have already pointed out, by the teacher training institutions, whether they are higher education or university education. This applies both to teachers trained in the field of art and crafts and to teachers trained in the field of real science. The example I've shown you with the First LEGO League is one example. We must encourage more! However, the point of technology and design is good. There is the potential to address our challenges in terms of climate, food, energy, population growth and health. Therefore, it cannot be stressed enough how important this is. Whatever is done today, it is important to keep an eye on the opportunities of technology in the field of practical aesthetics and the possibilities of practical aesthetics in the field of real science. What we're really saying is that real science is relevant in all disciplines. I guess that's what we want all students to understand. Not at least all teachers must understand this as well. There I still think School-Norway has a lot to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e507	The Christian People's Party's goal for the school is that no one should fall through, but that no one should be held back. Norway needs people with real-life vocational skills. I come from a part of the country where the NODE cluster has increased the number of employees, from 1,800 in 2005 to 6,250 in 2010. 60 pst. Of them, engineers. At the same time, strong developments have also taken place in the real areas of the region. Around our cluster, it is now in a short time developed both Bachelor's and Master's studies in a subject called mecatronics. The application for these studies has been made strongly. There's a lot of ways to strengthen real science. It is both the competence of teachers in the subject and the educational skills they get developed through teacher training. But it is also about stimulating the curiosity and exploration of children. When I got the lego as a kid, I got it to play with. It was not very complicated to build. We built a lot of things, but the main thing was to play. I just met a grandfather. He said that he now bought the lodge to build, explore and create complicated construction works. He now got a lot higher than what I got when I was little. There are complicated sets that require both mechanical and logical knowledge. He's a future engineer, so grandpa. The interest in design is also great in young people today. One of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is in favour of today is to connect technology and design with real science. I think it's about combining the interests that young people have today, and also using it as a gateway to make real science more attractive. When it comes to making your own schools for one and the other, which the Progress Party very often wants – now for real science – it is something we in the Christian People's Party do not support. One is the dimension of having schools where you meet different references and are going to be different things, but we're supporting the school that Tord Lien had a real start on how to celebrate all of our athletes. But it's just a school — a high-school gym — for those who do sports to also have an opportunity for education. It's another way to think top-notch about sports. It is important that all those mentioned in Tord Lien’s articles receive training when they can no longer be hailed as sportsmen, but may have to move on to another type of profession. We don't have space for everyone as a coach. The Christian People's Party is committed to giving opportunities to those high-level high-level high-school students so that they can have the opportunity to receive higher-level education. We also believe in more use of technical and general subjects, so-called TAF subjects, which take place in cooperation between high school and local businesses, both private and public. After four years you achieve a double qualification, both professional and study skills, with depression in mathematics and physics or chemistry. At the Kristiansand school centre in Kristiansand, this has been a successful offer both for business, for students and for the community. The theoretical training is given to the student at the school centre, and practical training is provided by one of the cooperatives in the TAF scheme. Education is primarily aimed at those who want to study at university or university level, and aims at becoming an engineer or a civil engineer. You can also continue to work as a tradesman in the company after having completed a course of study. This study for technical and general subjects provides solid and comprehensive education, and opens up many ways for students after high school. For us in the Christian People's Party, TAF is a choice for young people who want something about their education. You get the theoretical training in school combined with practical training in the company, and that's a very good step. We are dealing with a matter today that it is important that we get to port. I think we have to be able to make a case that makes even more curious, but then it's about stimulating both teachers' skills and students' curiosity that real science is also a practical subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e535	High skills in real science and technology are a prerequisite for tackling today's and tomorrow's complex societies. Several representatives have been involved. We know that a long-term growth of wealth will be the result of technological innovation. In the spring of 2006, the government launched the strategy A common promise for the real subjects, and in the spring of 2010, the Realfach strategy was presented as a reinforced commitment to strengthening real subjects. This strategy is long-term. It covers the entire educational cycle from kindergarten to research and working life. The strategy has been developed in cooperation with all the key actors in education and business through the National Forum for Real Science. The long-term and systematic bet seems to have a positive effect. The latest international studies show that young people are progressing in both science and mathematics – PISA 2009. The midpoint has also improved the results – TIMSS 2007. For students in secondary education who have full depression in real science, there is unfortunately a marked decline in mathematics and physics – TIMSS Advanced 2008. But these students have had a lot of their schooling before investing in the real subjects, so we still have faith that the bet will work. The broad effort has actually produced results, but we still have challenges to address. Weak youth knowledge is probably a contributing factor in the fact that an alarmingly high number of people do not pass mathematics in Vg1. TIMSS and PISA have also shown that many Norwegian students do not master some key basic accounting skills. I appreciate the commitment to the position of real-time professionals. That gives expression to a concern many of us share. At the same time, I need to be informed that annual action plans are being developed for the Realfach strategy for the future for the whole educational cycle, including research. In the development and implementation of these plans, inter alia: The Research Council, Business, Education Directorate, the Math Centre and the Science Centre play an important role. So a little bit about the representatives' proposals: the government does not agree with the proposers to facilitate the establishment of four national secondary schools in real science. The knowledge gap allows for the profiling of individual subjects and groups of subjects, and it is up to the individual county to make use of these possibilities. Several county municipalities already have schools that profile themselves in real science, and the number is higher than the four proposers. The government is wondering about proposal II in the document establishing four national real-time teacher training courses at master level. This was also the case rapporteur. Firstly, there are already integrated teacher training courses with the possibility of full immersion in real science at the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen, NTNU and the University of Tromsø, i.e. one in each part of the country. Through St. Meld. No 11 for 2008–2009, Stortinget decided to set up 800 new places of study at the master’s level in teacher training by 2014. In the next proposal, the government is asked to assess how technology and design can be better incorporated into mathematics and aesthetics. To this I would say that technology and design were introduced as a multi-disciplinary subject in the Knowledge Lift. Both natural sciences, mathematics and art and crafts have their own competence goals where technology and design are involved. The government is asked in proposal IV to find out how to make it easier for technologists and other real-time graduates to get school education. I am aware that there are different practices in the admission of people with masters in technology to practical education. Almost a year ago, I therefore asked NTNU to make a new assessment of its recording practices, without any significant change in practice. The Ministry of Knowledge has made it clear through the Lending Fund Regulation that masters in technology and civil engineering with supplementary education in pedagogics are equivalent to real-time vocational education and thus entitled to apply for a grant of up to NOK 50000. So I don't think there's any need to elaborate on what the department thinks about the specific matter in addition to saying that we'll look into this when we're going to start a revision of the PPU framework plan. In proposal V of the document, the government is asked to make it easier for high school students to receive secondary education. It has already opened up the possibility for students in upper secondary education to take mathematics, science, social sciences, English or foreign languages. The forthcoming Youth Communication will address how it can be facilitated for more students to take advantage of it. Then the government is asked to strengthen the funding of studies and research in real and technology sciences in universities and colleges. This was also the subject of the case rapporteur, and the government has chosen to give priority to increasing the number of places of study to meet the major youth schools that are now to be included in higher education. This will ensure equal education rights for all, and will ensure that the Norwegian labour market is provided with adequate skills in the coming years. With regard to the question of how to increase the salary of real-time scholarships, it is, of course, a matter on which the rapporteur was also involved, that if an institution considers it appropriate to increase these salaries, they are free to do so within the framework of the current collective bargaining agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e570	One of the government's recognised measures to give these students an opportunity to get the progress they actually have the opportunity to do is to allow them to take a course in high school even if they are primary school students. In connection with the Brodtkorb case, the Children's Ombudsman writes that: «pupils have the right to organised education and the right to organise training shall also apply to pupils who are particularly good at a subject. This follows both from § 1-3 of the Training Act and Article 29 of the Children's Convention. Article 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states, inter alia, that the education of the child shall be aimed at ‘developing, as far as possible, the personality, talents and mental and physical abilities of the child’. So it's a right according to the Children's Ombudsman. Does the Council agree that children in Norway have this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e582	Of course, it is important to give students the opportunity to develop their skills at all stages, including initial training. What the representative here is about is an example of that. But I have to say that I do not share the representative Liens – as he also began his post – the tribute of the elite. Obviously, it's great with people who win, and it's great with people who do it very well, but we have a responsibility for all those who don't call Petter Northug, Marit Bjørgen and so on. We are also responsible for all the others who are also to be present in these subjects. But of course, I fully agree that stimulation is important even in high school. I have explained in my article how we also come back to how this is going to be done in practice in the secondary school message. But we already have a lot of opportunities for this, both through the development of teachers' competences, through the Lektor 2 scheme, the natural school bag, national centres for mathematics, etc. All of this is designed to stimulate students to become even better, including young people. in real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e589	It's great with an elite as long as you're good at skiing, and it's great with millionaires as long as you win in Lotto. But what we know is that there are some practical problems associated with this. On the one hand, we have the county municipalities. It has been mentioned hundreds of times that they are currently responsible for this, and they are responsible for the financing of higher education. Nevertheless, we know that many municipalities that want to send their high school students up to the county level are required to pay for this type of service, despite the fact that the county municipality is clearly responsible for higher education. Does the Council of State feel that there is a need to clean up and ensure that the bill ends up where the bill should end, namely in the case of those who have legal responsibility for secondary education, so that the local economy cannot be prevented from facilitating not only talented skiers but also secondary school students?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e596	I am somewhat surprised at the proposal we are discussing here today because – as Aksel Hagen pointed out – there is a lack of confidence on the part of the Progress Party in school owners and in those responsible for education. I have great confidence that the county councils are doing their part of the job. It's always allowed to ask for more money, and believe that there are economic reasons why you don't get what you really wanted, but it's a clear responsibility in the division we have today between the state, the municipality and the county council in terms of the different educations. The state rightly has overall responsibility for everything. But I am surprised that the Progress Party, through its proposals, seems to have no confidence in the proper functioning of these systems. I have that confidence, and I hope that our county councils take this seriously when they facilitate higher education. Then we have a series of overall measures, which I mentioned so far, both that we have a center of mathematics, we have the Lektor 2 education, we have opportunities to retrain teachers, and this helps to help with the qualitative content of the county municipality is to be responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e603	Our biggest industry, and perhaps also the most technology-intensive and real science-dependent, is the oil and gas industry. A number of scholarship holders are trained at Norwegian universities and colleges in petroleum-related subjects. Very many of these are foreign. The danger is, of course, that if they move home, or move to other countries – the committee was in Canada not so long ago and heard many stories about capable people who, after finishing their education in Norway, had come to Canada, even though they originally came from Asian or African countries – we will lose valuable skills that we have spent time building up in Norway. Does the Council agree that there is a concern for strategically important knowledge in Norway if very many people have foreign origins and move back to their home country when they have completed their education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e610	Henning Warloe was in his post into the very oil technology. I fully agree that it is incredible what we have managed to build up in a small country like Norway in terms of oil technology. We had that competence on the one hand, but it was also dependent on foreign immigration and labour, and it is still going to be. To further develop the technologies that we need, for example: within that business, within what we're going to do after the oil is over, of course, there's a need here in the country, but we're totally dependent on international cooperation. Therefore, it is good that foreigners study in Norway. Then they get to know Norwegian culture and Norwegian technology development, and it is good that the Nordics travel out with their values and their skills. It is absolutely necessary for this type of major investment and important value creation such as: The oil and gas industry that we just have international elements, but also that the competence remains in Norway, because the companies are here – geographically they are here – and I think we can both agree on that. But we need the international competence, and I don't want to see it as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e617	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e620	In its Realfach strategy, the Ministry of Knowledge points to several challenges facing Norway in the future. The strategy paper contains a good deal of positive elements, but the Progress Party believes it is ambitious enough. We need to increase the training of labour in real science and technology. It is important to bear in mind that oil revenues are being reduced in the years to come and that these revenues must be replaced in order to maintain well-being and prosperity. Therefore, it is worrying that real-life subjects have been weakened over a number of years. Fortunately, the results of the last PISA study show a somewhat better result. We're gonna be happy for that. The representative, Aksel Hagen, said in his speech that the schools have not asked for their own real-time schools. But who are the schools supposed to serve? Is it not true that schools have a responsibility for the needs of the big society and business? The signals from business are crystal clear in terms of the growing need for engineers and according to them they will need a lot of people with real-life skills and different skilled workers in the future. According to the Rogaland Economic Survey in January 2011, 35 pst. by industry, difficulties in getting enough skilled workers. This is today. This does not mean very well for the near future, and if the objective, which has been read and adopted, is to lead the world in the maritime sector with priority research tasks related to the design, construction and equipment of ships, operations and logistics, then it is certainly necessary to provide for the ability of those who are strongest in the real world to use their capabilities precisely on what they are most capable of. Norway is already facing strong competition from the Asian market and this competition will only become stronger. The question that many people are asking is what Norway is going to do after the oil. The answer is that the solution is available today. Knowledge and technology are the main drivers of our current and future economic growth. Modern Norway is a knowledge society. That requires that we bet on knowledge. We need more real-life teachers. This situation cannot be solved simply by training new real-time teachers. It also needs to make it easier for realists, technologists and engineers to qualify to teach. Therefore, we are pleased that NTNU has partially turned around, but the Progress Party also agrees with the representative Ljunggren that they can extend even further. It's open to an opportunity that elementary school students who are in the upper secondary school and show good math skills can take mathematics at a higher level than that class and the school they're in. That's what we've been discussing in the past. But this possibility is not used at a close enough level today. It is not unknown that the Progress Party wants a seamless school offer where the municipalities are responsible for 13-year-old education. There have been attempts in other municipalities, and the results have been very, very good. It would have been a much smoother arrangement than today's system, which shares responsibility between the municipality and the county. We would then have an overall responsibility for statutory schooling that takes care of both results and economics. Sometimes I think we're more concerned with systems than giving students the best offer that would also be the best for the big community. I have also noticed that the government parties write in their note that if four national schools were established in real life, this would weaken the motivation of the remaining students at school. In addition, they indicate that four of their own real-life colleges will attract the most competent teachers, which will then affect the environments of competence of the other secondary schools. It is possible that this might have something to do with it, but I don't think the majority have read the proposals in the case well enough. With regard to the motivation and availability of qualified teachers of the remaining students, proposal No. 5, which aims at establishing real-life vocational education at master level. This will provide many good teachers in the school sector. In addition, school competences will be maintained and hopefully strengthened for the benefit of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e635	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e638	This issue is important, and it is also good that the rapporteurs put real emphasis on the agenda. But the debate also shows a rather large degree of consensus on that and on quite a lot around real science. I want to come up with some reflections and get to grips with what Aksel Hagen brought up, namely when young people dreamed about helmet professions – yellow helmet – and maybe also white coats. There are children in Southeast Asia who dream about it today. They're the ones who realize it's in science and technology that their future lies. There's their dreams. They know they will experience personal well-being, personal security and also social recognition if they choose that direction. In our country and in other well-developed countries, the motives are different. What does education really determine for children and young people? Future income, of course, means a lot to some people. It is obvious that interests and talent mean a lot, but also other issues such as gender roles, family expectations, social development and the impact it puts on. Researcher Camilla Schreiner at the University of Oslo has looked at how choice and removal of science plays a role in youth identity design. Interests, as well as the opposite – absolutely not interested in anything – are part of a strategy to build and express your own identity. She says, “We rely on others to create images of ourselves. The education choices of the girls are based, among other things, on who they think they are.’ She therefore believes that if you are to get girls into real science in particular, you have to play on, for example. knowledge of the real world can save the world. The environmental aspect is essential for many young people, and many girls are idealists, and many boys are too. I also want to grasp what Anne Tingelstad Wøien said about igniting the glow at high school. I did a little untimely exercise yesterday. I went into Google and Google "reading light" and "matique light". ‘Lessly’ had 42,000 hits and ‘matique’ had 15000 hits. So I Googled "sealed" and "mattled". For ‘sealed’ there were 22,000 hits and for ‘mattled’ there were 72 hits. Behind those encounters is a wide range of private and public actors who have been committed to speeding up their reading in the last decade. We need the same thing in mathematics. Finally, I have the following considerations to make: the proposals No. 1 and 2 I believe there is such a consensus that I think the opposition should consider whether these should be converted into transmission proposals, because we in the government parties are of the opinion that much of what is there is already working on, and that is already part of the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e657	The case spokesperson started his post here today by saying that there is a great deal of agreement about the importance of investing in real science. Then I thought it was a pity that the rest of the article asked for the responsibility to be distributed to all places other than in this room. Because when you're the most busy of why you can't put into action actions instead of looking at what kind of actions you could have done that actually work, based on responsibilities, it becomes a nice way to stay away from the reality that others see. The case-speaker is quite right in saying about the proposal for four national schools before real science. There's an ideological distinction. That's quite correct. When one listens to both the case spokesman and the state council today, they say, "Believe in a development where Norway, as a nation, develops best by keeping the best down. It's a completely unthinkable problem that we think Norway is the best place to think that the best ones are kept down instead of those who are a little weaker, getting something to stretch after. When one pays homage to Petter Northug and other long-haulers, that's who we have as motivation. When six-, seven- and eight-year-olds in those days are out in the snow and go skiing, it's like Petter Northug on the way over the line they're going. There is, of course, a real discipline that will provide – something to stretch after. Then we will develop both real-life vocational skills, industry and Norway as a nation. By cultivating the best we will also raise the goal for those of us who come a little bit behind. Then it is disappointing that the government party is so reprehensible to such a proposal. By pooling competences and also by adding the best things to reach out, we will expand the supply to the seventh and last. It doesn't mean that an inconclusive person should focus on a pure cultivation of the elite, but it means that there is an important commitment to getting up a width and a lack and motivation for all the elephants to choose a real science rather than any other form of study. Therefore, I hope that even if the government party is currently most concerned with placing responsibility elsewhere than in this room, they will at least take action in the back room to strengthen the real subject in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e666	First of all, until the proposals we are asking for are re-evaluated as transmission proposals: it should be the proposals No. 1 and 3, as they stand at the back of the setting. Then the Workers' Party has corrected it. Then I start by stressing the obvious. All disciplines are important because we depend on the combination of people that complement each other. But that's exactly why it's important that a sufficient number of people are trained in each subject area, and with today's demand, where maybe eight out of ten realists get a job before they finish the studies, there's a need to recruit more people for real science and technology. Actually, I am a little surprised that it is as difficult as it is to recruit a profession that should arouse interest in most people. How big is the chance that none of the kids in the class have birthdays on the same day? Is it possible to travel forward in time? How can children be born with blue eyes when both parents have brown eyes? As long as man is filled with curiosity, there is also the potential for recruiting more to the real subjects. But it can be demanding to bring to life subjects that in their nature are theoretical. Mountain Youth School is a shining example of real-time vocational training in practice, with technology disciplines, outpatient schools and partnership agreements with industrial enterprises. The Outpatient School has, among other things: given several solar clocks, a ramp for the calculation of power, mass and acceleration, and nothing less than a hydropower plant. Fortunately, there are many committed real-time teachers. My own physics teacher was one of the ones to inspire his students by planting the idea of real-time studies in us, and excited that one day we could start our own business. Not least he was excited that physics wasn't just going to be a boy subject and let the few methods be inexperienced to influence the girls to choose real science. I never forget the time he tried to provoke them by pointing out that almost all the great inventions are made by men. Just see when the dishwasher was invented, he teased them: the dishwasher came when we got equality and the men had to stay home and wash up. I don't know if it was because he managed to provoke them, but several of the girls in the class chose at least real science at the university. I think the government is hitting the nail on the head with the real science strategy you have. Firstly, one of the main objectives is precisely to increase the interest in real science and technology – and that is the interest it has at the end. Secondly, it is also a main goal to increase the recruitment of girls, where the potential is perhaps the greatest. And thirdly, there's going to be an increased investment in real science throughout the education cycle. I think that's important, because it's necessary to keep the real professional interest as early as possible if we're to be able to reap this kind of competence in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e681	Real subjects are the driving force in the oil and gas industries themselves. Then it is a serious cross of thought that there are hardly Norwegian students among those who are now taking a doctorate in petroleum-related subjects. As far as I know, there are only foreign students at the petroleum level at the University of Stavanger, and at NTNU there are quite a few Norwegian students, with foreign students in a large majority. This is definitely worrying and a clear expression that the real subjects do not have the necessary appeals from today's young people. Therefore, it is more important than ever that the authorities and the business community combine to market the wide range of opportunities available by investing in real science. Today, we have heard the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast account for the fishing and aquaculture industry, another real-life industry, which is one of our largest export industries, and is responsible for significant value creation across the Norwegian coast. This industry is also dependent on accommodating new skills over the years to come. The first real-life strategy, ‘Real science, of course’, saw today’s light in 2002 and contained a wide range of measures to raise awareness of the value of real-life subjects in order to further develop the welfare community, but also to enhance the skills of real-life students, teachers, the labour market and the public. The current Minister of Education Kristin Klemet saw the danger signals and wanted to mobilise the entire Norwegian community to improve the motivation of students and teachers to increase recruitment for real-time education. Today's real-time recruitment is a cause for concern. The Nobel Prize winner in physics, André Geim, recently said to Technical Weekly that rich Nordics are so decadent that they don't want to study demanding subjects like physics and chemistry. I hope Geim is wrong, and that searching for these subjects will take place, otherwise we may be in a bad situation in the future. Efforts at continuing training of real-time teachers and the Lektor 2 scheme in secondary education are important steps to improve the quality of real-time vocational education in primary education. The right, therefore, calls for greater efforts to increase school competence. At the same time, efforts must also be made to make the importance of real subjects more visible in everyday life, and more priority must be given to actions such as science centres and Newton rooms, where students can come and dive in exciting ways of approaching the subjects and thus get inspiration to continue to invest in these types of education. It is quite right, as has been said, that we are in a better position in terms of the PISA and TIMSS studies. But when that's said, it's far to the best, and that's who we have to compare with, if we're going to get involved in global competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e696	The representative Dagrun Eriksen and I are in good contact with some areas of expertise and clusters of competence in the South that provide us with good input. Last Friday we met with the Norwegian Industry, Norwegian Centers of Expertise NODE, which has 51 companies with very strong and unique expertise in both traditional and new energy industries. Often, when we politicians have dialogue with the business community, it's about what's the biggest concern in the future. Dagrun Eriksen told about the large increase that has occurred in this industry, and one could think that they might have been concerned about how turnover could develop further, or what the other framework would be. Yeah, that's important. But the main concern is, in fact, how they're going to manage to acquire competence in the future. In the last five years, the increase in the number of employees has been twice as high as in the past five years, and they do not ignore the fact that this will double again in the next five years. Competence is required. It's the competence that's unique and that makes them there. The position today refers to many existing offers. I think it was constructive when, at the end of the day, proposals were made to amend some of the proposals. It has puzzled me a little bit that you have been so happy with what is, when we see that after all we don't get enough focus on and enough recruitment for the important subjects. We can't afford to be defensive here, because we have to get the whole race to work, from raising the interest of the smallest and all the way up to the greatest. It is important that, like the assembly we are, we take the initiative and promise this. That's why it's very good that this case is promised, and then we can back it up, and it's urgent, because it takes time to get people through the education cycle. So I have to answer a little bit of Tord Lien's challenge with regard to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I think to the extent that the answer is given earlier. Right-wing believes it's allowed to bet on special skills in schools and lines and to strengthen the teachers, and states that this is a bet we'll bet best on. But we also think that limiting it to four schools is too small. It's important to underline it. We want such bets, but limiting them this way is going to be wrong. We therefore agree to facilitate such efforts. Otherwise, I just want to back up under Marianne Aasen's reflection on lust and joy. I have an engineer at home. Every night when he lies down, he constructs his mind, and he stands up and builds it before he goes to school in the morning – an engineer who is ten years old!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e711	Several speakers have pointed out that the Progress Party does not seem to have faith in the counties. That so many in this room are surprised to the extent that I am. It's not like the county council has the opportunity to solve this for itself. We are now calling for national admissions and contributions to funding, which the skynoses receive, whether they are private or owned by the county councils. So this committee, which has dealt with this matter every year, deals with a budget for transfers to the national lines. The Progress Party calls for national admissions and national contributions to funding. So the county councils can't solve it by themselves, and neither do they in relation to skigymnases, horse gymnases, macramé gymnases, and what we have in this list of country lines. I recommend everyone take a look at the list of country lines. Then I am pleased that the chairman of the committee suggests that it may be reasonable to submit proposals. I had hoped that it would be proposal No. 2 but also proposal No. 3 I believe that there may be a reason to submit if the Council of State can confirm that she is working to make it easier to take a post-secondary course while in high school. It's going to be a little bit counter to what the council responded to in the line change, but it's still the Grand Council that decides in this country, and I assume that it's the majority's will to be expressed in this room, so I hope the Council of State can confirm that the government wants to make it easier to take upper secondary education while you're in high school. This will also require clarification of the financing of this. So I didn't ask for any government involvement in funding. It is clearly a county responsibility to finance higher education. If we agree that high school students have the right to take upper secondary education, it should also be the county council's duty to finance what they themselves have legal responsibility to finance. So to the representative Aksel Hagen, who usually – at least occasionally – makes excellent contributions. He wasn't today of the caliber that I like to be used to. When the University of Stavanger announces a PhD position for civil engineers in petroleum technology, there are two Norwegian applicants of more than one hundred applicants. The salary level of a civil engineer is DKK 180 000 above that of the scholarship holders. That this doesn't affect anyone? It is possible it does not affect trust elected in SV, but I think many talented civil engineers do not sacrifice 180,000 kroner. I will come back to whether we want to submit the proposals or not, following the input from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e724	It's not without reason that we add up to bets and strategies to strengthen the real subjects. In this way, we have a common starting point with today's proposers, and the debate has highlighted in an interesting way both similarities and differences in belief in the various instruments. I am aware of the attitude of the Progress Party towards the County Municipality. What surprised me was the great belief in the state, that one should sort things out, and that one should instruct both here and there – whether it is money or action. I notice that, and I see that here's the great belief that the state might influence even more than what you initially thought. We have not yet been able to convince NTNU that they should have a slightly better chance of using labour in schools, and that the transition to the PPU should not be so difficult. We hope we can succeed with that in the long run. I just want to sum up the debate a little bit from my side. These are, as I said, important reasons why we're going to bet 500 million. kr and, in addition, rates of continuing training for teachers in these subjects. We're betting that the teachers, when they're given skills, will be better qualified to teach. Following a survey conducted among the participants who were in further education in 2009 and 2010, Rambøll, who have conducted this survey, writes that of the answers ‘we can conclude that continuing education through the 2009 and 2010 school years was a success’, and that this is considered to be a very good professional qualification. It's good to take along, and I also appreciate the fact that the representative Elisabeth Aspaker mentioned this with knowledge centres, because it's also an important part of the bet and making the real subjects exciting for young people. The science centers that we now have quite a number of places in the country offer just such an opportunity. We have mentioned ENT3R as one measure. We have mentioned the national centres of mathematics, the natural school bag and the Lektor 2 system. And as a direct answer to the challenge from the representative Lien now at the end, if we want to make it easier for high school students to get secondary education, I maintain my starting point that this is the county municipality's responsibility. But I am very much in favour of the Workers' Party's call for this proposal to be submitted, and I will accept it and agree to consider that proposal, so that we may perhaps come back in a later debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e737	I drew myself to make some comments to the Progress Party. First of all, on behalf of the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien and myself, I would like to express my regret that when you have such strong testimony from South Africa about what is happening down there, it is unfortunate that we have no equivalent from the interior, from the Gjøvik–Raufoss area, which is also very heavy and exciting in this area. It is nice to bet both places – and probably several other places as well. So a little bit to the Progress Party, and first of all to Tord Lien: it's nice to be given attention that way. Now I think that Tord Lien gave me attention to was a problem area that I didn't say anything about in my post – we can check that out from the script afterwards – just this with the reward of fellows. Of course, it is interesting for all those involved in education at this level to compete for a pay level out there. Today, however, the situation of scholarship holders is such that Norway and the other Nordic countries are already attractive because of the economic conditions, because in most countries the scholarship holders are only getting scholarships, but here they get some sort of salary. What will happen if we increase this is that not least the proportion of foreign applicants will increase. That's exciting, but it's not sure that's the whole solution to the problem. This is an exciting discussion – it costs a lot of money to increase the salary level, and it is well commented on by others on the platform here today. I did not comment on it, but Tord Lien obviously believed it. With regard to ideological differences, it is interesting that it is the Progress Party that stands for the planning economic approach – the Progress Party that does not believe that educational institutions in close cooperation with society, business and school owners can expand an offer here, but wants from above to expand a few limited offers, while the rest of us in the Chamber are just happy that there are many institutions that try to meet this offer in different ways. When it comes to national admissions and country lines, I think Tord Lien has an unfortunate comparison. Today, landlines are used to ensure the provision of services in areas where there are too few applicants and too little interest that this can be resolved by the individual county. What is the situation – and we don't want to least be the situation here – is that there will be so much commitment and so much interest in this that the different municipalities can develop and build a wide range of services. This is another example of the fact that where the vast majority want a broad offer, the Progress Party wants to limit the same offer in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e748	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e751	Let me start with the important thing. After hearing both the committee chairman and the Council of State, I am prepared to submit proposals No. 1 and 3, but unfortunately not proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox That's it. In the case of PPU and NTNU and admission for civil engineers, the representative Ljunggren says that this cannot be instructed by Stortinget, and the Council of State says that the Council of State should instruct. I am so pleased with the approach taken by the Council of State in this matter, and I am glad that the Progress Party has raised this debate, so hopefully we will find a satisfactory solution. NTNU has moved in a positive direction, I'm glad, but if the Council of State can do more in that matter, we're of course happy about it. In the case of scholarship holders, the representative Warloe is concerned that there is no problem. I don't agree with that. I am of the clear opinion that when a university receives its scholarship funds from us, it is a bit paradoxical that doctors, lawyers and civil engineers are paid equally, while the need for resources for the laboratory infrastructure is probably somewhat tougher for technologists than for lawyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e760	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, has referred to the proposal No. 1 and 3 for transmission proposals, and they will be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e763	I would like to say a little bit about a topic that has so far been mentioned, but which I believe is sub-communicated in this debate in terms of strengthening the interest in real science. It's about the science centers. The Norwegian testimonial effort is an outstanding success. If we look at audience visits – the last number I have from 2009 – it reached 600,000 visitors to seven science centres, as it was at the time. So there's a triple number of visits in six years. Now the offer is also expanded, but still there are quite large numbers. Bergen Vitensenter, named VilVite, passed 100,000 visitors already the first year, and probably ended up last year at 130 000 visitors, as far as I remember. The White Centres reach very many, not only children, but also children with parents or grandparents. You get more knowledge, you get entertained and stimulated, and both – as many have seen in this debate – are important to increase your interest in real science. So it's like 20 pst. Of the students who chose real science, the science centres reported as the main source of that choice, i.e. what had stimulated the most to study real science. So we know that the science center is important in itself, but also to make more people choose real-time education. The Council of State indicated that this was important. But the problem is that the state's contribution to funding the science centres is not good enough. The White Centre Programme Board has itself said that the contribution of the State should be doubled in order to enable the knowledge centres to continue to cope with large growth and develop in the future. So the country's contribution is only about approx. 20 pst. of the total revenue of the Norwegian Science Centres. I had an interview about this in Stortinget last year. At that time, the Minister of Knowledge took part in the debate, and she was, at least at the end of the debate, a little excited and said that during the debate she had received many good arguments to strengthen the initiative. But it did not happen in the 2011 state budget, and it is extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e775	Two things now at the bottom of the debate – first of all, we are very aware that we have a recruitment challenge for teachers, not least in the real world. Through the GNIST partnership, we have now achieved reasonably good results by raising awareness of all key actors in this. With the new teacher training, with a separate course for youth, it is also a pleasure to record an increase in students who want to take this particular course, not least from a real-life point of view. In the case of NTNU, I must unfortunately disappoint Tord Lien. The councils have quite a lot of power, but not so much power that she can instruct a university in a matter like this. I can only understand that the Progress Party has misinterpreted NTNU's letter to the Department, because NTNU has not wanted to change its practice. I've encouraged them to do that, that's what I can do, but we're probably dependent on NTNU itself being able to make that decision. I wish you could do that, so that they could take PPU with masters in technology. It would make it easier to get these flexible and seamless transitions and use the highly educated workforce for school education. So we're working on this in common, but it's not in the power of the Council of State to instruct the university in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e782	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e800	Let me start with a story: Depressed Ina was fleeing from his own father, but the municipality said no to report him for assault and get her a home. The location you entered is not valid. Everyone knew – the municipality, the police, the head office, assistants and attorneys – but no one prevented Ina from moving to her father last fall, despite his being convicted both in 2004 and 2006 for having abused her sexually. Then it happened that everyone feared. At the end of January of this year, after visiting the incest centre in the home state, she told me that the father had abused her sexually throughout the autumn. Why couldn't anyone help Ina? The reason her original municipality could not help her was that she was now registered in another municipality. When I hear this story about Ina, it strikes me: Have you heard the concept of interaction? How are we going to make the interaction work better between different municipalities and between different levels of government? In my opinion, this should also have been a matter that the Minister of Coordination should have looked at more closely how to make the systems work better together. The daily newspaper has on several occasions revealed serious shortcomings in the management of cases of abuse of the developing population by municipalities. A red thread in the reports is that the very weakest of the weakest among us are ignored in the public and in the criminal justice system. They're just being treated as inferior. I think that's reprehensible, and I react with both anger and disgust when I look at the stories you've been through. Let me then refer to some of the stories: a less developed woman was sexually abused for months by her teacher at a high school in South Africa. Employees thought of her as sex-fixed and in love with the teacher. Although they found them several times alone in a rest room, the school did not introduce any precautions. He was convicted last year. In 2006, the police targeted a labour manager for an assault on a developmentally impaired woman in a municipal sheltered company in Salten. The police investigation revealed that employees had a number of specific breaches already in 2004 without notifying them. Another example: in 2007, a supervisor was convicted of assault on two developmentally disabled women and a mentally ill woman in a sheltered company in Harstad. One of them warned about the assault as early as 1987. The municipal management did not investigate the case, and the abuses continued for 18 years. The municipal authorities of my own municipality, Verdal, did not report a police officer in the municipal enterprise for sexual abuse, even though the development-impaired woman became pregnant. Five years later, i.e. in 2000, he was taken, and the year after he was sentenced to a new assault on the same woman. Another example is that a woman with a developmental disability living in a drug-induced municipal housing complex in Bergen was raped last summer by a neighbor. It took more than three months from the notification to the municipality of Bergen to move her to a new dwelling. In the meantime, before moving, there were new threats of assault. We have also witnessed the fact that formerly killed and violent persons have been employed with people with developmental disabilities in municipal enterprises, without the company being informed and able to implement precautions. Unfortunately, the stories are many. I think they make a deep impression on us all. When you hear all these stories coming up, and also meet some of the people who have been subjected to these abuses, you almost get the impression that the retarded live in many ways as wild as our own country. That's what I think sad, because I don't think any of us want that to be the case. We all want to do something about the situation that has been revealed, among other things. of the Newspaper through a number of articles. Last year the government launched an information and development programme aimed at municipalities as a response to several alarming developments 20 years after the introduction of the HVPU reform. I think the government should be commended for bringing in this program. Unfortunately, there are few or no clear concrete measures to address the real problems. The National Council for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities proposed by 2008 at the latest to set up a public body reviewing the life situation, living conditions and services of people with disabilities in Norway. The Council pointed out that more than 16 years had passed since the HVPU reform was launched, and that it was more than 10 years since the last time people had studied the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. That's why I want to challenge the government on three things. Firstly, is it clear that a multi-disciplinary group or a public body will soon be set up to review the life situation, the living conditions and services of people with disabilities, and that the sample will also be mandated to provide concrete measures for the prevention of abuses, but also on how to strengthen the knowledge and legal certainty of those with disabilities — i.e. to follow up what the National Council for the Equality of Persons proposed three years ago, in 2008? I am happy to see that some of the municipalities that have been mentioned, including in today's newspaper, who have had failed warning procedures, now themselves are starting to improve their routines. These municipalities should be commended for that; I think it is commendable. But at the same time, we still know that this is a very sensitive and difficult topic both in municipalities and in society, which means that everyone should have clear and equal guidelines to deal with. That is why I see the need, although some of these municipalities are now getting involved in this, for such a selection to be put in place soon, in order to review the situation with a view to improving the situation of those with developmental disabilities. In addition, I would like to ask the government to assess the increased use of professional competence, for example. the setting-up of regional outreach teams that automatically engage with police assistance in criminal matters. We know through a number of reports that the police too are hesitant to go into the cases, that the police are not going well enough to do so, and in many of the cases they are just taking care of matters. We've had a number of reports that show that. It does not help to strengthen the legal certainty of the weakest in society. Therefore, I also hope that you can look at such a solution, so that you can get the necessary professional skills to help ensure that the people with development are given help and follow-up, and that the investigation can be done in the most professional and good way possible. So to a third area: Another problem for very many people with developmental disabilities is that they have built large housing complexes around the municipalities. It was said in the context of the HVPU reform that developmentally handicapped people should also have the same brittleness as others. Then we see in relation to the funding systems that for municipalities it will pay more to build large institutionally-like dwellings and place the developmentally-impaired there. This is contrary to what was said in the mid-1990s when the HVPU reform was adopted. I find it sad to see that a group in our society should not have the same right that everyone else has to adapt their homes in a good way. So I challenge the Council of State to conclude whether she is willing to change the House Bank's rules in this area, so that it becomes more profitable to build individual, small dwellings arranged for the development of the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e836	I have also read the newspaper's articles on sexual abuse against people with developmental disabilities with great concern. I am glad that Dagbladet has put the spotlight on this problem, and that I am given the opportunity to tell Stortinget about the work that is being done, and therefore also show that I appreciate today's interpellation. Tackling people with disabilities is a matter of concern to many sectors of society, but the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has a special responsibility as the coordinating department to address this issue. There is no systematically collected information on the occurrence of sexual assaults committed against people with developmental disabilities in Norway. In the light of international studies, it is assumed that the incidence of serious abuses against the developing population is more than twice the size of the population. In the cases mentioned in the newspaper, to which Eriksson refers, the sexual abuses have occurred in different situations and in different arenas. The articles show that abuse can occur both in large residential complexes, in smaller Community dwellings, in ordinary dwellings, in schools and in sheltered enterprises. It also varies who is superior. Studies from Denmark show that in most cases the attacker is a person known to the victim. In about one third of the cases, the attacker is another person with developmental impairment. The respondent is also often a person who has to do with the victim in the context of care, leisure or employment activities. This is important information for us. The interpellant raises a number of questions, mainly those related to the life and legal security of the developing person. Firstly, it is the issue of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, and I as the responsible Council of State, will take the initiative to develop specific procedures for alerting and dealing with sexual abuse against people with developmental disabilities, which can be applied to all arenas where there is a risk that those with developmental disabilities will be exposed to sexual abuse. The newspaper claims in its articles that only one in nine municipalities, sheltered companies and schools that have experienced criminal offences have their own procedures for alerting abuses against those with developmental disabilities. Much may indicate that the general procedures have significant weaknesses in ensuring the legal certainty of those with developmental disabilities. In the context of the issues that were also discussed by the interpellant in its first post, which was mentioned in Dagbladet, I have carried out a new review of the laws, regulations, procedures and systems that are relevant for the prevention, detection and management of abuses against people with developmental disabilities, thus assessing the need for further state action. At national level, there are laws, regulations and administrative provisions requiring municipalities and public and private enterprises to develop procedures to ensure the proper provision of services and to prevent and detect unlawful practices such as violence, assault and harassment. These include the Health Care Act, the Training Act, the Quality Regulation for Care Services and the Internal Control Regulation for Social and Health Services, among others. However, the detailed design of procedures and systems is left to individual activities. The activities shall develop procedures and systems adapted to the activities concerned and meeting specific challenges related to each activity. In most arenas, such as schools, health services and other municipal services, police clearance is required for people working with, among others. persons with developmental disabilities. In addition, there are a number of cross-sectoral laws, regulations and agencies to prevent, detect and notify of sexual abuse. The Working Environment Act contains rules on alerts. The Criminal Code has rules on the obligation to abdicate criminal offences, including sexual offences. The take-off obligation was reinforced and extended by legislative amendment on 25 June 2010 and is now applicable without prejudice to professional secrecy. The police have established a system of so-called family violence coordinators. Coordinators have specific competence in the fight against violence and abuse. In the period 2006–08, five regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention were established. The centres have established interdisciplinary teams on violence and assault. Existing laws, regulations and procedures generally apply to recipients, to patients, to pupils, to persons on labour market measures, etc. To a small extent, specific procedures aimed at persons with developmental disabilities have been established. The government has also established seven regional children’s homes to provide comprehensive assistance, care and treatment to children and adults with developmental disabilities who have been subjected to violence and sexual abuse. In children’s homes, this should include: judicial hearings and medical examinations are carried out. Government policies for people with disabilities are based on equality, equality and equal opportunities. That's what was the whole purpose of the HVPU reform in its time. In order to achieve an equal society for all citizens, regardless of their ability to function, it is important to focus on inclusion and organisation. So the government's attitude is that developmentally handicapped people should have the same legal protection, rights and obligations as the rest of the population. Instead of establishing specific solutions, procedures and arrangements for those with developmental disabilities, the government considers it important to ensure that these are effectively accessible to the same protection against sexual abuse as all others. In this context, it is important to stress that those with developmental disabilities are also not a homogeneous group, but consist of persons with very different assumptions. So the question is, does this work? It's a timely question the representative travels, and I think it's as much about how we use the rules we have, and how we make them visible, as about adding up something special for the developmentally disabled as a group. I think it may be difficult to establish common rules on how to prevent, and how to alert and deal with suspected abuses in the case of special developmentally disabled people. But that doesn't mean you don't have to work systematically with alert procedures. There the representative has pointed out something very important, let's call it a deficiency, in the systems as they work or not work today. The point must be to make all these systems and rules work, so that they provide real protection for the less developed. So here's the assumption that the routines are organized, and that they're organized – as the government sees it and I see it – for everyone, regardless of individual assumptions. Working to prevent abuse of people with developmental disabilities raises some particular issues, as many people with developmental disabilities have less ability to understand situations involving abuse, and it is not least more difficult to communicate to others what has happened. Lack of credibility and loyalties can make it particularly difficult to detect any abuse. I would therefore like to take the initiative to develop and organise a nationwide dissemination of knowledge material that can also act as a guide to the specific issues raised in the prevention, detection and management of sexual abuses against the developing population. Good foundations have already been developed here, including: from the State of Finnmark and from the Health South-East, which may be a starting point for establishing a basis, so that the procedures are not only made known, but also, in order to meet the representative, that on that basis warning systems can be developed. I would also like to take the initiative to make children's homes better known as an offer that also includes adults with developmental disabilities. It should be made known that children’s homes are a multi-disciplinary resource centre, where development-impaired persons themselves, service providers, relatives and others may address information, advice and guidance on unresolved issues of sexual assault and violence, or if it is clear that an infringement has occurred. The government, at the Ministry of Justice, has begun work on a new action plan against violence and abuse. This plan shall also include measures against violence and abuse against persons with a particular need for care and follow-up. Given the limited knowledge of violence and abuse against people with disabilities, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will take the initiative of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress to develop a knowledge status on violence and abuse. This has to be followed up by sealing up the gaps in knowledge that are then evident, and I think that the combination of getting more knowledge and making the procedures work properly is some of the important steps that have to be taken here. With regard to the financial instrument, I fully agree with the representative that it is not intended to build new institutions. I think we're all on line there. It is also the case today that the Husbank manages grants for the construction of furnished dwellings. It states in the grant guidelines that the quality of the housing projects for which funding is requested must be ensured and that there are also indications from the reform of responsibility that it is necessary to invest in flexible schemes adapted to the individual and that housing should not have an institutional character. It is also important to refer to the information and development programme under way. For us, it is important to point out that those with developmental disabilities should have the same choices as others, they should be treated with respect, and we should try to get better grips on the procedures that are being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e878	Let me first thank you for the answer from the Council of State. There was some positive in the answer, and then of course there was some part that I could imagine would have been even more positive. I guess that's often the case. But let me challenge the council further. For what the Council of State says, as I think is positive, is that you have reviewed the legislation, and you look at it and you need to spread knowledge about it through an information brochure. It's all right. As the Council of State itself says from the interlocutory: the development-impaired must have the same legal protection and the same protection as all the others, not special rules. It also sounds very good. But when we know that today's legislation doesn't work, when we know that everyday life outside this house is such that new abuses happen – and they often happen – it's not good enough, in my opinion, to just go through legislation or try to send out some information material to the municipalities. I think you have to go a step further and do exactly what was recommended in 2008: look at the living conditions of the less developed and go through it thoroughly. Professionals call for exactly the same thing: to reduce a sample of common alert procedures. You have faith in it just because this is so complex, this is so delicate in many ways, and you can see that it's not being warned. It does not help if the penal code says one thing, and other laws establish things, if conditions are not notified. You're equidistant. Then it goes out against the weakest party, which here is assault victims. At least I don't have the heart to sit still and watch, and there's nothing that provokes me more than to hear about assaults against the retarded or against children. It upsets me so much that you almost get such an aggression, such an anger inside you that you almost become afraid of yourself and afraid that you should do something violent yourself, if you get over any of these things. That is why I think it is absolutely essential to go through these routines, to ensure good practice, and to get security around the municipalities for how to deal with it. For the problem today is that it is not notified, and therefore not all the other legislation comes into use either, because there are no cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e887	I would like to elaborate a little further on what I was not able to say very much about in the post, namely how we continue to work on the information and development programme that the representative also said something positive about in his first post. It is not just about making materials and sending them out and believing that everything is going well. This is also about meeting and meeting with the municipalities, where the municipalities are central in connection with, among other things. the type of challenges that the representative is now talking about, such as:What does it take to be able to alert? We know from child protection and from other vulnerable areas how difficult that warning is, that there is a big difference between caring in time and in time. You have to care about, and you have to warn, but you shouldn't go too far into the personal integrity of the individual. This is also important for those with developmental disabilities. But what we're hoping for now, what we're doing with this information and development program that Councillor Lightbaken launched last fall, is we're going to do a series of regional meetings, and we're going to meet the municipalities and deal with these things. I hear the representative say that a sample should be set up to go through this. I have said that I want to ask the National Knowledge Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress to develop a status on the situation, so that we get a very clear message about where something needs to be done. But I don't think it's enough to show you where it's missing either. I think what needs to be is a discussion of how to apply the rules and the procedures that we have today. A warning system may then need to be developed. What are the barriers? I think, for example, that professional secrecy can often be a barrier that is too large and that it is one of the challenges and one of the issues that can be addressed in conversation with municipalities. I have great faith in dialogue with the municipalities in such a context. Municipalities have an important responsibility. As I said, we have a comprehensive legislative framework. The point is to make it work, and the point is to raise awareness in municipalities and institutions about how this works. I would like to add that as a concrete expression of the measures that the government has now taken. Because we fully agree on the objective, namely that the less developed should have real legal protection and equal opportunities, as all of us do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e898	First, I want to stay a little bit with the group that we're talking about. We're not really talking about a group, but we're talking about a lot of individuals that work very differently. We're talking about Per, Janet, Abdullah and Dihn. They are different and live different lives with different content. Developmental inhibition is also different, from almost without visible consequences to severe disability. Therefore, it is important that in the debates and when we speak of this group as politicians, we are careful to generalise. We're talking about a diverse group of people. But assault on people with developmental disabilities is a double assault. Many people with developmental disabilities may find it difficult to understand what is really going on and give the attacker the opportunity to play carefully, while the goal of contact is actually exploitation or abuse. Power bias is enhanced in all positions because one party has a different way of interpreting signs and situations. It is our duty to be human to protect vulnerable persons from abuse and overload. Taking advantage of the general interpersonal trust is a betrayal of the victim, but also of the responsibility we have as adults and responsible people. The working party wants a society where everyone has to have their natural place. That gives us some challenges, because what is normality? It also challenges us on how much abnormality you're going to tolerate in their vicinity. How much tolerance are you going to have for deviant behavior and behavior? Who's going to decide what's normal, who's normal, and who's not? Where will the boundaries go, and who will decide them? These are not questions or challenges that can be answered by tabloid headings or by several laws and regulations. Developmentally disabled persons shall be able to participate in the usual activities of daily life, in work and leisure, in family, with friends and in social contexts. I want it to be like that. But this could lead to some getting into situations where they need extra protection and protection. Having rules for warning of abuse and sexualising violence should be a matter of course in all businesses and at all service locations. Sexualized violence and harassment is a special expression in our culture. We have had debates on sexual harassment in the workplace in general and violence and abuse in close relationships. I am very pleased that this government has been clear in all respects, and to all people in our country, that sexualized violence and abuse are not accepted. I am very pleased with the government's broad commitment to this field and with what clarity this message has been conveyed. Persons with developmental disabilities rely to a greater or lesser extent on the community to prepare for them. Some need little help, others need more. This means that some people often come into situations where equal pay is twice as crooked — they are in need of help and also vulnerable. Some people take advantage of this. Not all adults have good intentions at all times. No matter what kind of relationship there is between the robber and the victim, and what kind of condition the victim is in, I think it's an expression of poor quality in the work not to have routines for that type of assault and violence. It should be in the ordinary internal control systems, especially in establishments where jobs with developmental disabilities are involved in activities or live. The internal control regulation should be used in such a way as to establish procedures for the handling of suspicions, have warning procedures and notification procedures for all sexualised violence and harassment. Therefore, it is important to know the specific needs of those with developmental disabilities in relation to their behaviour and their relationships. As the Council of State said in its statement, and I think that is very good, it is important that we apply and develop the rules and procedures we already have today, rather than create new action plans that we do not really know about working or not. I am therefore very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. The most important thing to do is to prevent such situations from occurring. Therefore, it is important that professionals, managers, employees of organisations and businesses are provided with knowledge and information about this. User organisations play an important role here by helping to communicate in particular the good work done, where good practices are in place, so that they can develop this into national practices and rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e919	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important and serious topic. As a political authority, we have a maritime responsibility both to prevent and prevent abuses, to expose them and to follow up, treat and protect those who have been exposed to them. There is an established law related to this which is clinkingly clear. There is also a clinking clear commitment for all those working with people with developmental disabilities to take care of those interests. There is no doubt about it today. There is also an obligation to notify it. It is an obligation that now applies notwithstanding the obligation of professional secrecy. There's a new situation. I hope that the provision that has now been implemented in this area will contribute to legal certainty not only for those with developmental disabilities, but also for example. for children in need of child protection assistance, or for others who are victims of abuse or who are not properly protected, that it is notified. There are many people in the care who know something about such abuses, which they do not warn about. I don't think I can stress strongly enough how important and central the new provision is to be able to make changes in this field. The starting point here is that everyone should have the same right to protection, but we know that someone is more vulnerable than others. We also know, as the Council of State said, that there is international research that suggests that the risk of abuse here might have doubled in relation to the rest of the population. It's very serious. This means that the procedures to be developed locally, at individual institutions, related to the individual workplace, related to the individual housing community or whatever it may be, must take into account the fact that some are more vulnerable than others. This requires not only alert procedures, but also work routines and organisation of work, which are in themselves preventative and prevent abuse from being possible. It is quite difficult, as the representative Henriksen and the Council of State were also involved, because it is also about people who have to live their lives. It's also about people with developmental disabilities actually having the right to have a sexual life, and it can be quite demanding for those who are responsible for protecting the individual and at the same time giving this person the right to have their full, marine life. So it's like there's a lot of cases where the overshooter's sea is anti-developmental. The representative Eriksson took up some of the examples. They may live in the same institution, in the same housing community. Similar conditions can also be found in nursing homes, linked to dementia. Here I think you have to go in with a special focus on what you do in those cases. For there are two parties – two weak parties – who both need protection, but, of course, those who have been victimised must be protected. I don't think we should decide who it is to be moved on. But that something has to happen immediately in such situations, is obvious. Then it's probably also that there's a risk in the home service that these situations might arise. What we know about those who work at home is that there is certainly no profession that is so vulnerable to violence. We have assumptions that those who receive services from home services may also be the victims of violence and abuse. Work is being done, among other things: through the supervision of work. But I think there is a need to do exactly what the Council of State says: to establish that this legislation is such, and to oblige those who are responsible to actually follow it up. It's very clear today. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e934	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant, Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party, for raising this interpellation debate. It's a very important debate. On the part of the Christian People’s Party, it is absolutely fundamental that everyone should be able to live safely and, of course, to live well. It is in many ways what this matter is about. Unfortunately, as the interpellant says, there are too many examples of abuse that are not followed up. There are too many painful stories that you get the impression you don't care about. In fact, there is no need to be affected here. This is where action is needed. We all, at all levels, have a responsibility to do something about this. We simply have a responsibility to be involved in healing these wounds. Developmentally handicapped people are a group which can only very little promote its own needs and causes in society, compared to the rest of the population. It is then absolutely right and very important to question whether their legal certainty is being ensured. As I said, as the Progress Party refers to, the revelations of the legal certainty of the less developed scares are. Norway, as a society and a legal community, has a job to do to upgrade the overall level of legal certainty for people with mental retardation. People with developmental disabilities can, of course, be victims of crime in the same way as the rest of the population. This applies to all kinds of crime – of course what is pointed out here: sexual assault. Some persons with developmental disabilities may belong to a specific risk group for certain criminal offences. It is then important that people who work in the services of people with developmental disabilities have knowledge and competence about how to prevent criminal activity and how to behave when it occurs. That is why I welcome the response of the Council of State today, that she is now taking an initiative for regional meetings with the municipalities, where information is disseminated. I must also say that in those conversations, in that dialogue, there must be a very clear expectation to the municipalities that they will follow this up, and that knowledge and competence in this area will be spread to those who work. It's a paradox, and we should take that into account, that in the professional group working with people with developmental disabilities, it's only 20 pst. who have received higher education. A lot of them do a great job. But I think disseminating skills in this area is very important. So I'm glad that the Council of State has announced that these meetings will take place, and that the information that, after all, exists is also disseminated to municipalities that absolutely need it. Because it is really a warning that only one of nine municipalities has their own warning procedures in terms of abuse against the developmentally disabled. The second theme that interpellant addresses is housing. If we go back to the HVPU reform, it would lay the foundation for the institution's reality to be set aside. In the objective of the responsibilities reform, normalisation and equivalency were important words also in the case of housing. Today’s situation shows that there are many ways to stand in the way of building large housing complexes that can almost be compared to institutions. If we are to take seriously the fact that developmentally handicapped people are also to be integrated into society like everyone else, it is absolutely essential that they themselves have a real choice as to how they want to live — whether this is to be arranged through individual schemes, or whether they, for example, are. chooses to live with others. These are things I think we need to be involved in facilitating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e945	I want to thank the interpellant for having a very important debate. I also want to thank Dagbladet, who has put an important search light on legal certainty for a vulnerable group through an article series. There is also reason to praise the newspaper for its thorough and important journalism. As the interpellant was also involved, this has already contributed to the creation of change in some municipalities. It's impossible not to be affected by these stories, because there are horrible examples that as a society we have failed some of those who need us the most. It's unacceptable, and in this area we have to be impatient. In the newspaper's survey, there were 11 out of 15 cases other than the municipality that reported or notified the police of the violations. And when the cases were first reported, it has been found in several of the cases that employees or the municipality have suspected that something has happened, but have not gone to the police anyway. This is one of the reasons why it has been important for the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Parties to strengthen the abolition obligation. Because now it is no longer possible to hide behind the obligation of professional secrecy. The abolition obligation has also been extended to several offences, including: violence in close relationships and abuse of over-power. This is one of many laws and regulations that obliges individuals and public and private businesses to take responsibility. It is now crucial – as many people have been involved – that information on the obligations reaches those who work in that field. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is taking the initiative to promote a nationwide dissemination of knowledge material, for increased knowledge of developmental inhibition and sexuality will help to prevent sexual abuse. And more knowledge also gives security to employees and relatives, and can make you more effective instead of the paralysis. The daily headline shows serious weaknesses in the legal protection of persons with developmental disabilities. These are unacceptable weaknesses. Legal certainty must and must apply to all. The same issues were described in a research report from Nordlandsforschung in 2009. It is important to stress, like many others, that people with developmental disabilities are a complex group and that no human beings are alike. But the report from Nordlandsforschung shows, among other things: the presence of prejudices in the judicial system by persons with reduced mobility, the possibility of language barriers and the fact that the evidence of the victims is not always available. It is therefore important to say that the Government of the Ministry of Justice has already started work to strengthen the legal certainty of this group. These include: set up a working group to look at the mandate for the hearing, and we also need to look at and implement measures to strengthen the competence of those conducting the hearings. Until now, the concern for the victim has prevented as far as possible further hearings, but now knowledge shows that it may be beneficial to clarify the case that more hearings are being conducted. Now let's think about that. It will also help to ensure that police and prosecution authorities get better evidence so that it is easier to set matters straight. Several cases that end with a conviction will also have a general preventive effect, and can help prevent new abuses. Competence and knowledge of persons with developmental disabilities in the judicial system are essential for the victim to be heard, taken seriously and believed. As stated by the Council of State, studies from Denmark show that in most cases the attacker is a person known to the victim. It is therefore natural that more action should now be taken in the context of the new action plan against violence in close relations. We need to ensure better investigation, and we need to, among other things. also consider whether to introduce new evidence requirements in criminal proceedings involving the development of people with developmental disabilities, where more emphasis is placed on, for example: behavioural changes and assessment by experts. Anyone who has been subjected to serious sexual assault is today entitled to an aid lawyer. Now we also want to see whether we should clarify in the law that in those cases where you do not initially have a right to an aid lawyer, you should in any case have it if the victim is a developmental person. But here it's an important balance. It is important that we do not make laws and regulations that stigmatize an entire group, because these are people with different needs. Then I want to end by saying that the best policy in this area is to prevent. I think we're doing a lot better with more knowledge and more reflection of those who work in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e968	Like everyone who has been up on this platform in this debate, I would like to commend Robert Eriksson for raising this debate – a very important debate, which concerns us all. If we don't have the ability to protect the weakest in society, it says a lot about us as a society. Overgrowth is often — many of whom have been involved — one that the victim knows, perhaps one that the victim trusts. The problem is also, as in one of the examples mentioned by Robert Eriksson, that people move on more than before, and unfortunately we see in too many cases – especially related to child protection – that those who should be at the forefront of protecting children may be those who run away from the auxiliaries, who take their children, and who avoid the aid that can come in and help. It's a challenge that's hard to deal with. But then we see that even in those cases where you actually get help and get involved in the auxiliaries, you might experience new abuses. People who need help must be able to feel confident that this will not lead to new abuses. We also see that many of those who could have helped refuse to go into the matter and to notify – also in the auxiliary equipment – and the shame of this reaches completely into this room. This must end! A lot of things have been done. As the Council pointed out in its answer, there has been a great deal of commitment over many years, but also a great deal of work on the part of the authorities to help more people, to get in the past, to increase their skills, to do whatever they can to help those who are under attack. But, as many people have been involved, we're not yet in the goal, because we know that this is still happening over and over again. Therefore, the work must continue, and therefore we are many in this room who are impatient with the further work. In the name of truth, the municipalities must take the responsibility that they actually have and not sit and wait for the state to establish national guidelines. It should not be too much to ask municipalities to set up procedures for dealing with these kinds of cases. I am pleased with the commitment of both the inter-pellant and those who have taken part in the debate, not least from the Council of State. There have been several positive signals, indicating that there is a cross-political consensus on both the need and many of the grips being signaled. We have to keep up with this and work on it, including cross-political. In the preparations for this interpellation, it became clear how fragmented responsibility is both in the department structure and in the committee structure here in Stortinget, and that in many ways this almost becomes an orphan child. The Council of State has now said that this is something that the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion is responsible for, and that job they do well. But also here at Stortinget, I believe that there is the potential for a greater cross-political and cross-committee approach in order to have a continuity of work, to follow it more closely, and also to perhaps come up with new measures that can help in the situation that many people are experiencing. In any case, I can guarantee the Council of State that it will not be difficult to get a majority in this Chamber when you are ready to take new measures from the government as well. Once again, thank you for this very important debate. We must follow the work further in the committees in which we sit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e987	Let me first of all thank both the Council of State and everyone who has contributed to the debate. I think it's been a good debate with good approaches. I just hope that the debate we have had today is the start of improving legal certainty and the living conditions of the developing world, and that it will not just be a debate that will be a part of the series of debates in which we all agree that conditions are not desirable, and then the abuses outside the four walls of this house continue. I started my article by referring to one of the journal's stories, about Ina. The daily newspaper shall have all praise and honour to put this theme on the agenda. But the story showed that no one could help Ina, and no one was responsible for following her up. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will take this with them and look at the interaction between the various public authorities and between the municipalities across state boundaries, because what is essentially about is not about a living or located within a border geographically, but about people who are being attacked, abuses that we cannot tolerate in Norwegian society. That's why I hope we can have more flexibility attached to it. I am also pleased that the Council of State points out that one is to conduct regional meetings. The representative Confession from the Christian People's Party said something very reasonable, namely that one must have some expectations for these meetings. I have expectations, and then my question becomes to the Council of State: How should you ensure that the municipalities follow this up, how should you ensure that the municipalities establish good warning procedures? Because it must not be that you have traveled around, had a dialogue meeting regionally with a number of municipalities, ate a good meal and drank a couple of cups of coffee and had a very nice conversation and agreed on all the good intentions, and then nothing happens anymore. It has to be followed up, and you have to have a system on how to follow it up. Finally, I will be allowed to challenge the Council of State in relation to the financing mechanism. She says that quality is one of the Husbank's criteria. Does the Council of State think that is the quality of what is seen today in the construction of institutional housing complex? If the Council of State does not believe that it is quality – which at least I do not believe – then how does the government want to follow this up with the municipalities, so that that kind of building ends?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e999	A little bit to the story: From the reform of responsibility carried out many years ago, and to this day we can say that for the group we are talking about – which is not a single group, but a number of individuals with completely different situations – the situation has gone from being invisible to becoming visible vulnerable, because it is vulnerable people we are dealing with. Fortunately, we had a reform that allowed us to live as worthy people, choose our own home and choose their own way of life. That is a good side to the reform. But still these people are vulnerable, and we have a responsibility to protect them and give them the legal protection and legal security they need. Prevention is the most important thing; more have been involved. That's easy to say. Prevention in this case is concerned, inter alia, with: on how to follow up the procedures, the meetings with the municipalities, the requirements we have to set, how to report and follow this in concrete terms, and how to monitor it. With regard to possible mechanisms that lead to no warning and no reporting, I would like to stress what I said in the article about the change that has occurred in relation to the removal obligation. It is reinforced, it has expanded, and you should no longer be able to hide behind the obligation of professional secrecy in order not to notify. So to this with homes. One thing is the direction of the House Bank, but the government has set up a public body to discuss and advise on how social housing policy will develop in the years to come. It is quite natural to look at the housing situation of those with disabilities in connection with the work of this sample, and I will make sure, in the light of this debate, that it comes in as an important part. Then you might be able to get answers to some of the questions asked by the interpellant. How do we – as everyone here in the Stortinget agrees that institutional measures should not be built – prevent this from happening in the municipalities anyway? It's an important question and an important challenge that we have to take with us. I would also like to stress the action plan against violence and abuse launched by the Ministry of Justice. It shall also include measures relevant to the group of persons we are talking about here. I want to end by saying how important it is in the dialogue meetings we are going to have with the municipalities, to be concrete and clear also in terms of the competences of those people who are going to be responsible for the developmentally impaired. It may not be crucial how high education is, but they must be safe in their role, and they must have the necessary knowledge to provide legal protection and protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e1014	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e1020	Before the Storting goes to voting, there are now at the President's table two permissive requests that we have to deal with, from the representatives Solvency Horne and Kåre Simensen, respectively, on leave from 21 February to 26 February, both to participate in the UN Women's Commission in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of Finnmark County Ann-Kristin Engstad and Rogaland County Marit Amundsen are invited to meet in the Stortinge from 22 February to 24 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e1044	Then we're ready to vote. Case No. 1 The presentation by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e1104	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals to strengthen the financing of studies and research in real and technology sciences in universities and higher education institutions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-17.ana.ud567e1198	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
