ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e22	The representatives Dagfinn Høybråten and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Tina Bru, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Susanne Bratli, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Åse Michaelsen on leave from 6 October to 10 October – all for participation in the autumn session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik by Mr Ingall Olsen on welfare leave from 10 October to 21 October Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other representatives of the West-Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Henning Skumsvoll's leave on 6 October. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For West Agder counties: Line Skøii Vennesland 6 October For Finnmark counties: Willy Pedersen from 11 October until 21 October For Telemark counties: Odin Adelsten Bohmann 6 October For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Board Langåsvold 6 October – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Line Skøii Vennesland, Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Bård Langåsvold are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e100	The representative, Mrs Solberg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e103	On behalf of André Oktay Dahl, Anders B. Werp, Svein Harberg, Siri A. Meling and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for a wide-ranging police study and increased social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e108	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e120	The 2012 budget is a budget for work, value creation and well-being. The budget has become an environment of concern and great uncertainty. Therefore stability and predictability are important. The 2008 financial crisis has been replaced by a crisis caused by high debt and high deficits. Saving banks is a simpler task than getting states on fixed grounds. Anxiety and uncertainty in one country can easily spread to countries that are not in crisis. Norway may be affected. Our most important defense is to keep order in your own house. We have to act then. Then those who look at Norway and the Norwegian economy from the outside will have confidence that we can do just that. It takes a long time to build up such trust. If we don't do our job, trust can disappear overnight. The budget for 2012 is well adapted to the situation we are in. We have economic growth in line with the historical average, and unemployment is low. Low unemployment, high participation in the labour market and good growth are prerequisites for achieving other key policy objectives. In the 2012 budget, we follow the rules of action for the use of oil revenues. It gives us room to meet unforeseen events in the future. We present a budget for work and value creation while ensuring well-being. Important joint tasks such as health, care, school and kindergartens are being strengthened. Municipalities will also receive a good increase in income next year. Priority is given to police and judicial security. It provides greater security for people. There'll be more money on the road and the railway. Rolf Jacobsen describes our country in the poem «North»: ‘See more often towards the north. Go to the wind, you'll get a reddish cheek. Find the foreign path. Hold it. It's shorter. North is best. Winter's flame sky, summer... The sun miracle of the night. Go to the wind. Climb a mountain. Look to the north. More often. It's a long way from this country. Most of it is north.’ The most important task of policy is to facilitate people's secure frameworks around their lives. However, politics cannot do everything. We must all be fellow human beings. We all have to focus on our basic common values. Goodness and quality of society are not primarily determined by material values. The crucial thing is our ability to care about and take care of each other. How important this is, we've experienced this summer. Although most of the country is north, it should not be cold. We're going to carry the human heat with us. We have great human and natural resources. Through work, togetherness and cooperation, we have united these. We've managed to build one of the world's best countries to live in. That's our legacy from the last generation. It's going to be our legacy to the next one. ‘No, honest work’ is just as fine and good,’ Alf Prøysen wrote in the Greek language. The embarrassment, that we as human beings are as much worth and contribute as we can, is a prerequisite for doing this. ‘Work for all’ is the lifeline of the welfare state itself. It's always been like this, and it'll always be like this. ‘We live on each other’, as Erik Brofoss said. Work and value creation are the main source of own income and of Community income. Our low unemployment does not get big headlines in the newspapers. We take it for granted that unemployment is low, that wages are going to increase year by year. Never before have we been as rich and prosperous as we are now. This has done something to us. We have to be better at enjoying what we have, over all the possibilities we have, and over what we get. The most important values in life are not found in posts and chapters in the state budget. In Europe, on average every 10 workers are unemployed, and youth unemployment is even higher. It has great human and social costs. Youth without faith, hope and dreams for the future is a huge waste of resources. This is happening in our neighborhood. And that concerns us. We depend on the countries around us. We have close economic links. Our trade with other countries is a prerequisite for our prosperity. Thinking that we can't be affected by what's happening around us is dangerous. In uncertain times, we need to take care of what has given us good results, take care of the lessons that have brought us through past crises, the community of people, good welfare schemes, the high level of professional participation, the broad tax base and a reasonable level of taxation. When we faced major challenges in our own economy at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, we mobilised together. Our way out of the crisis came into being in cooperation between trade unions, employers and political authorities. This is what we called solidarity. We who had work should hold back our demands. This would give those who were unemployed new opportunities in the workplace. Together, we got it done. Although time changes and a lot is different, the ability and the will for cooperation must be at hand. The State budget is important for the jobs of competitive enterprises. The same thing is the paychecks. Wages and salaries in competitive industries must set the framework for what others of us can take out. We each have to live up to the responsibility we have for the whole. We have oil revenues. Nevertheless, it is the working life that carries our common well-being on our backs. That is why we need to process and develop the labour force. The labour force is 85 pst. of our common wealth; oil only 7 pst. Many do not get over the doorstep and into the workplace. This threshold must be lowered so that everyone who can participate is allowed to enter. It's a political responsibility, but it's not just that. Employers also have a responsibility. Employers must invest in their own labour force because employees are their main capital – today and in the future. Everyone deserves an honest chance in the world of work. A human being is always much more than what you see. A safe growth and a good school lay the foundation. The safety of children is our common future. Children's opportunities are our common future. That's why we have to save for our children. That is why we must invest in our children. That's why we have to do what we can to make sure that young people don't drop out of school. The generation contract is about this. Over the course of our lives, we have different needs, and we have different abilities to meet these needs. That's why generations have to set up for each other. We're doing it through the strong community. That's why we pay taxes. That's how we get money for common well-being. That's why we're going to use oil wealth wisely. That is why the rule of action is important. Norway has been successful before, during and after the financial crisis. We have had strong growth in income, production and employment. Good development has been closely linked to China, India and other emerging economies taking their place in the international market. The increased demand from these countries has given higher prices to goods we export, while at the same time providing us with cheap imports. The enlargement of the EEA territory in 2004 gave us new access to labour. The result was a marked rise in Norway’s real disposable income. Labour costs in Norway have increased considerably. Measured in the single currency, the cost per hour was over 50 pst. higher in Norwegian industrial enterprises last year than in our trading partners in the EU. Also this year and next year, there are clearly higher wage increases in Norway than in the countries around us. High export prices and good productivity have for some years dampened the impact this has had on profitability, but we have no guarantee that it will continue like this. The importance of employment needs to be given to the treatment of the State budget. We must take into account the challenges that monetary policy is now facing. Over time, the growth capacity in mainland Norway has the most to say if we can continue and expand well-being. The ability of our companies to compete on the world market is crucial. We can contribute through a budget that does not increase the pressure on the krone price and therefore on competitiveness. It's a two-way street in the Norwegian economy. On the one hand, they protected industries and suppliers to the oil industry and, on the other hand, more traditional industries exposed to competition. The oil industry and the supply industry have both increased competitiveness and profitability and can drain other enterprises for skills and resources. How we deal with these challenges will have a major impact on economic development in the future. Economic policy is about the large figures in the state budget, but most about the lives of individuals and families. It's about the hundreds of employees at Rapp Bomek in Bodø who depend daily on good conditions of competition abroad to sell their specially developed fire doors. It's about the companies at Raufoss in West Toten. It's about all the small and large enterprises in municipalities across the country, companies that live daily selling their products in a competitive market. An important reason why we managed well through the financial crisis was just the breadth and variety of our businesses. It gave us more legs to stand on. I often travel around and visit companies and meet nice employees and managers. There are many things that determine the future of these businesses. They can have big and small desires about what politicians should and should do. Most people have a common main message to the Minister of Finance: Keep an eye on the economy! The mainland economy has now grown seven quarters in a row. For 2011 and 2012, we can expect a growth in the mainland economy around us in line with the historical average, unless developments in America and Europe go from bad to worse. However, compared to the revised budget of May this year, growth estimates have been slightly downgraded. Unemployment has remained around 3 1⁄4 pst. in the first six months of this year. It's 1⁄4 percentage point lower than last year and 1 percentage point below the average over the last 20 years. With continued good growth in the mainland economy, we can expect unemployment to remain low in the future. Therefore, the government follows the rule of action for the gradual and long-term use of oil money in the economy. It makes us predictable in an otherwise unpredictable world. It contributes to the stability of the interest and currency markets. We must maintain such a policy. The 2012 budget adds to an increase in the use of oil revenues in line with the average growth of expected returns in the period we are now in. The use of oil revenue actually increases by nearly 10 billion. kr. In the 2012 budget, we propose to spend 122 billion. oil crowns. This is 2.4 billion. kr under 4 pst. course. The budget is well adapted to the economic situation. Calculations indicate that the proposed budget for 2012 will have a neutral effect on the economy. In the budget, we propose cutbacks, while at the same time holding back expenditure growth. Child protection is continued at the same amount as this year. We are reducing appropriations for regional development. We are restoring the extensions of the permitting mechanisms adopted in the context of the financial crisis and the 2009 package of measures. This applies only to new cases. We reduce the banking obligations of the postal service, and we liquidate the arrangement that public funds strengthen private gifts for research. In addition, a number of other savings are proposed in the areas of the various departments. The draft budget does not meet all the requirements and wishes for increased bets. We have to say no to much to take care of the most important thing: to take care of the workplace. Politics is not just to want, it's also to choose. A policy where all wishes and requirements are met does not provide a good whole. There is no rule that budget lines should only continue to increase because it has been so all along. Many countries use more than they can afford and are therefore in a trap of deficits and increasing debt. For several countries, long-term expenditure has been higher than revenue. When loans to cover deficits are constantly growing, freedom of action is gradually gone. Interest and rebates take an increasingly large part of the budget. There will be less money for work and well-being. Around the corner, increasing expenditure on pensions and care as the population grows older comes. Norway has a large surplus in the budget, and we have a lot of money on the book. Many would probably want to be in Norway. We must be proud of the position we are in, but at the same time humiliate. We're not invulnerable either. The big oil revenues help us, but it's our ability to keep people in work that's most important. Work gives each individual financial autonomy. Work combats poverty, balances social differences and contributes to equality between women and men. In order to maximise participation in the labour market, the government is committed to continuing the high level of action from 2011. Within this framework, we will propose several action areas for workers with disabilities. We present a job strategy for people with disabilities so that they can return to normal work. It requires a long-term effort. The provision of health and care is important for the individual's living conditions and the development of life. It shall provide security and be tailored to the needs of the individual user. We therefore provide an additional 1500 places in nursing homes and nursing homes, and the government will provide grants to a total of 12,000 nursing homes and care places by the end of 2015. We follow up the dementia plan and propose an earmarked grant to the municipalities to establish day-to-day activities. The government will strengthen the economy of hospitals to increase patient care. We are also following up the cooperation reform. The goal of full child care coverage has been achieved, and the strong effort is being carried on. Financial responsibility has now been transferred to the municipalities. This underlines the important role of municipalities in their welfare. The parent payment for kindergarten is actually reduced by maintaining the maximum price unchanged. Cash support for one-year-olds between 13 and 18 months is increased from 1 August 2012. From the same date, the cash support for two-year-olds is liquidated. All children need community attention and care. Some children, however, need more than others. A high-quality childcare facility is good prevention. But that's not always enough. Therefore, it is also important to have good child protection. We propose to strengthen the grant for municipal child protection by 50 million. kr. This comes at the top of an already strong bet. A long-term, responsible policy is not least about prioritising knowledge. Kindergarten bet is one part of this. Equally important is strengthening school and higher education. Our young people are the labour force of the future. Education makes you more active in the labour market. This is why it is important to complete high school. This is why we are increasing efforts to counter this drop through youth interventions. In addition, we are proposing the introduction of the 8th stage option from the autumn of 2012 to make training more practical, varied and challenging. Youth schools are increasing in the years to come. We've taken this into account. In 2012, we proposed some 2,600 new places of study related to previous escalation and new student coal. We allocate funds to about 1,000 student homes. A start-up grant is proposed for technology construction at the University of Tromsø. The government is proposing a total appropriation for research of over 25 billion. kr. Norway is among the OECD countries with the highest publicly funded research per capita. We want to secure long-term and predictable research appropriations. That's why we're turning the proceeds from the Research and Innovation Fund into ordinary appropriations in the budget. This implies the liquidation of the fund itself. The municipal sector receives a real growth in free income of 3.75 billion. kr. The total revenue growth is actually 5 billion. kr. The growth of income needs to be seen in the context of high population growth, which requires the expansion of service provision. In the context of the growth of free revenues, there is also room to cover the forecasted investment on the road. We compensate municipalities that in the context of the Cooperation Reform have higher costs than what is being captured in the income system. We are facilitating increased value creation and development across the country. We are proposing a significant increase in road and rail appropriations for a total of 2.2 billion. kr from the high level in the 2011 budget. The agriculture agreement for 2012 provides a basis for positive development in the industry. We suggest increasing equity in Investinor. Priority is given to the development of public digital services in 2012 in order to increase the quality of management. We are proposing an increase in the appropriations for culture of 500 million. kr. The government is continuing its work on climate and environmental action in 2012. Among the priorities for environmental and climate action are measures to combat deforestation in developing countries, the purchase of climate allowances, enhanced public transport, support for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement and the safeguarding of natural diversity. With the government's draft budget, we are fulfilling the long-term defence plan. Individual safety is important. We propose significantly increased resources to the ICT police, increased staffing and other operations, as well as to the Police College. The appropriations allocated to the Emergency Network will be increased and the nationwide expansion of this network will continue. The project for the acquisition of new rescue helicopters is strengthened, and so does the maintenance of the rescue helicopters we have today. There is a historical commitment to social security in this budget. Standby and police are getting an increase of about 2.2 billion. kr. The overall increase to the police is about 700 million. kr. Of this, 164 million is. kr directly linked to 22 July. The attacks of July 22 shocked us all. 77 people were killed. Many were physically and mentally damaged as a result of the melancholy. The wounds take a long time to heal. Some wounds will never grow. We're going to be able to repair the material damage. Our most important contribution, as well as being a fellow human being – and taking care of each other. In connection with the attacks on 22 July, a significant amount is allocated in the current year and for 2012 we propose a further 674 million. kr. This shall cover the costs of police investigation of the attacks. Helicopter readiness in the police is improving. We want to strengthen the prosecution authority and improve the police security service's ability to detect and prosecute possible terrorist acts. We want to increase the capacity to deal with cases of victims of violence. The municipalities around get funds for psychosocial follow-up. In addition, expenditure is devoted to the rental of new premises, to several departments and to the rehabilitation of the government quarter. The 22nd July Commission shall identify the course of events. They shall propose measures to ensure that Norway is best equipped to avert and face any future attack. Central values of Norwegian society such as transparency and democracy are to be respected. The need for funding in this context will come back to the government later. A lost expense depends on a lost income. Our tax system brings in about 1 000 billion. kr to the community. These revenues form the basis for our welfare society. It is therefore important to both maintain the system and continuously assess the need for adjustments and improvements. In addition to securing Community income, one shall also contribute to the fair distribution and improvement of the environment of the tax system. It shall promote value creation and employment and, in addition, improve the functioning of the economy. Net tax relief is proposed for business of about 1 billion. kr. Municipal property taxes are made more flexible by exempting commercial property when local authorities charge property taxes on dwellings. The tax reform in 2006 was necessary to make the tax system fairer and more efficient. The evaluation shows that this was a successful operation. It has contributed to more redistribution and the proper functioning of the tax system. The Government holds the promise to maintain the same level of taxation as in 2004. In 2012, we also do not add up to major system changes in the tax system. We propose some changes that provide more fairer distribution, contribute to simplification and non-discrimination, strengthen the environmental profile and close tax gaps. The progress of taxes on income and wealth taxes is continued. The points of entry into the top tax, the deduction of persons and the maximum minimum deduction of wages and salaries and pensions are increased as wages and salaries are expected to grow. The asset tax base is increased to NOK 750000. The Government proposes to increase the lower limit of the minimum deduction of employee income from 36 to 38 pst. This will provide tax relief for those with the lowest incomes and will strengthen the labour supply. The tax system can continue to be improved. The government proposes to phase out the special deduction for major disease expenditure over three years. This was a scheme that came in the 1930s. At that time, Health-Norway looked completely different from today. The system works poorly and is closely linked to health assessments and priorities. In addition, the scheme excludes people who have so low income that they do not pay taxes. The distribution effects are therefore not good either. The rules are unclear, both for taxpayers and for equality authorities. The tax rate also uses disproportionate resources on the scheme. That's why we want to replace the tax deduction with direct appropriations in the budget, which is essentially intended to cover the same purposes. In other words, this is not a saving proposal, but an improvement in the system. The 2012 budget reinforces the reimbursement rates of the public interest for dental treatment, the House Bank’s housing adjustment grant scheme and the public interest car support scheme for group 2 cars for children and young people. In addition, we support the Diabetes Association's work on motivational groups and the early detection of diabetes. Working on the 2013 and 2014 budgets, we will ask user organisations for advice on how to use the remaining funds. At the same time, in cooperation with the same organisations, we will work to clarify which existing support schemes cover the purposes for which the special deduction scheme has been supported. That's how we want to get to a conversion that's targeted and fair. Car charges engage, annoy and delight. Car charges shall provide the Community with revenue while at the same time contributing to the reduction of health and environmental damage caused by road traffic. We announced a review of the car charge in the previous budget. The government wants to strengthen the environmental profile and to create greater predictability of car taxes. The car charges went down slightly in 2012. In concrete terms, we propose to increase the environmental profile of the one-off charge by paying greater attention to CO2 emissions and taking into account NOx emissions. At the same time, we propose to reduce the emphasis on engine power – horsepower. The one-off fee will not increase overall as a result of the conversion. There will also be no increase in the taxes on petrol and diesel as a result of the price increase itself. We propose to reduce the registration fee. This means it'll be cheaper to buy a second-hand vehicle. This is important for the truck industry by reducing the charge for trucks, vans and trailers by 20 pst. average. For other vehicles, the fee is reduced by 5 pst. The VAT on food is proposed to be increased by one percentage point from 14 to 15 pst. Experience from previous changes suggests that not the full increase in fees is passed on to consumers. In addition, increased food tax needs to be seen in the context of the proposal to abolish the food production fees paid by food producers today. This change significantly reduces the cost to the food industry. Overall, therefore, the proposals are likely to have little impact on food prices. Norway cannot guard itself against crises and major fluctuations in the world economy. However, we can prepare to resist or limit the effects of such events by building and maintaining our own defenses. Our main defence against external crises is good governance of our own economy. Good governance is important to prevent crises that we can impose on ourselves. Expenditure is not only to be borne today, but to be borne over time. Therefore, we must build reserves in good times. That is why the rule of action is important. Strong economic downturns have often begun with an unbalanced build-up of debt and a sharp increase in property prices. Norway has sound government finances, but strong growth in borrowing has made households more vulnerable. High income growth over several years with a historically low level of interest rates has contributed to a strong rise in housing demand and housing prices. The rise in housing prices has been accompanied by strong growth in household debt. The debt is not evenly distributed. It is particularly high for many households in the establishment phase. Many are therefore vulnerable if housing prices fall and interest rates increase. Increasing housing prices makes it difficult for those who are going to buy their first dwelling. There are also increasing differences between those who already own dwellings and those who enter the market. The growth in housing prices is strongest in cities with large relocations. Price rises are due to several factors, and a solution to the problem of high costs of establishment will likewise be complex. Prices are influenced by the availability of land, construction costs and the ability of households to pay. Households themselves have a responsibility to assume that interest rates will increase from the low level of the day. The banks also have the same responsibility for not granting loans that pose an excessive risk to the borrower. The financial crisis has shown us that the banks need to become more robust. There is a strong interdependence between the real economy and the financial system. In order to reduce the risk of problems in the financial sector, strong emphasis is placed on promoting soundness, liquidity and good behaviour through public regulation and regulatory oversight. Norwegian banks have come out of the financial crisis better than banks in many other countries. It's due to a number of factors, not least animal-bought learning from our own banking crisis 20 years ago. The government will build on the strengths of Norwegian regulation and supervision and remedy weak points. Norway will continue to exploit the space for action of the EU directives, and we focus on cooperating with the other Nordic countries on this. Solid banks are a competitive advantage both for banks themselves and for society. The banks have a significant own liability, both for having sound equity and not least for having a responsible lending activity. It's their first line defense that's the most important crisis protection. The lessons and experiences of the banking crisis in the early 1990s must also never be included in the forgotten book. Norway is in a special economic situation. State finances are stronger than in most other countries. The population has consistently high material standard of living and good education. We have good co-financed social arrangements. This is the result of a long-term effort and is a strength for production and work. We have to hold on to that. We are facing major challenges in fiscal policy as a result of an ageing population, and it is good that people are doing well and living long. We have seen that freedom of action has already been reduced in the 2012 budget. In the future, public expenditure on pensions, care and health will increase sharply. The growth in the capital of the State pension fund abroad will also decrease over time. There will be less scope for increased use of oil revenue than in the ten years of operation. So following the rule of action is not enough. The best defence for the generational contract as life increases is increased labour input. High labour input per capita provides a high tax base and high public income. When we live longer, it's also obvious that we're going to work a little bit longer. The workplace is an important social arena and a place where we get to use our abilities. For many, being at work is important to health – fortunately, most of us enjoy our work. Measures that facilitate employment rather than social security are important for individuals. At the same time, it will mean a lot to make public finances more sustainable. In order to motivate work, the tax and pension systems are important. It must always be worth working. The pension reform helps to make it more profitable for individuals to stay longer in work. Pension reform also provides better opportunities for combining work and pensions. Number so far indicates that about 60 pst. of the 62-year-olds who took early retirement from 1 January this year are still in work. Our most important job is to create a good society for everyone. A good society is a society that takes care of young people like old, healthy and sick, in small and large communities. We are doing a lot in this state budget to strengthen our common welfare systems. But we must never forget that each of us has a responsibility to develop society for the better and to improve the lives of the people around us. The efforts of many in associations, teams and organisations make a major contribution to the well-being and development of the quality of our society. In the summer, community and cohesion gained a new meaning. It became more important in a larger context — a context that is reflected in our actions and how we behave towards each other. The values on which we're going to build our interpersonal association are the most important defenses against the society we don't want. A well-developed welfare society is essential for each one of us to feel security — a society in which the strong community stands before us when we need a helping hand, and where ownership and shared responsibility must go hand in hand, a society in which no people need to fear to become weak. None of us are stronger than that we will need this common security from time to time. We've made important choices between community and tax havens. Our high level of well-being cannot be combined with the low level of taxation of many other countries. We have made a choice, and the solutions we have chosen have served us well. My generation has experienced a continuous growth and development of well-being from the very beginning of life. That means we've done, and we're doing, a lot right. We have to keep doing that. A single year’s budget is a small part of this large construction plant. That's what we're going to use for both renewal and maintenance. This is also the case with the 2012 budget. We have to remind each other that the possibilities are always greater and more than the problems and the difficulties. We have to be happy about everything that's good, and all that we get. We are the necessity of each other. Our interpersonal relationships and a good common culture create this interdependence. On this basis we shall prepare ourselves, and on this basis we shall build the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e310	The President will then propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that, after each intervention by the opposition parties, a comment is given by the Minister of Finance and then a final comment by the representative of the opposition party of up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e319	The Chairman of the Financial Committee also considered it a good idea to depart from the Rules of Procedure so that the Minister of Finance could comment on the observations made. I think it could be a very fruitful conversation, both for the country and for the Stortinget. But I'm not suggesting it. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e324	I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e327	I want to start where the Minister of Finance ended. This is at least true in Norway: opportunities are always greater than problems and difficulties. Norway is a good country to live in. Very many Nordics now experience good times. Yes, they have experienced it for many years: good paychecks, low interest rates, strong exchange rates and good communities – also in the municipalities. We have a strong community and a good society. Oil revenues are solid, and output also stays on the mainland. In isolation here in Norway, then, the prospects and opportunities are very good if we manage them wisely. The problem is that even though I sometimes get the impression that there are some people who would like to put up a wall around the country in Norway, and who think that since we have it so well here, we're not completely dependent on what happens out there, it's not like that. Just because Norway is doing so well, both as a result of strong business and good people and also safe governance from governments over many years, differences between our situation and the situation in the rest of Europe are increasing. Creating a budget creates problems and challenges. It's a troubled world, and just three years after the last financial crisis, there's evidence that things are going on again. The situation in Europe is very serious and cooperation countries and trading partners are again affected. In 2008, it was about saving the banks. Now it's about saving land. It makes the situation even more dramatic. It reinforces the problems that few countries this time seem to be able to solve the problems in the same way as in the previous round, by spending more money to speed up the economy and by increasing public demand. It gives us a new and deeper challenge that also hits us, because we also have weaknesses, or demanding challenges, as someone would say. We have a high cost level, and we have an open economy that is totally dependent on being able to sell the goods abroad. Lower demand internationally will certainly affect us. We already see that a strong crown can hit the companies that export. Then it is our job in this room to do what we can to avoid Norwegian jobs being more affected than necessary. I don't take the chance to gamble with the jobs in industry, in travel or in the marine sector no matter how many from the opposition are going to blame this budget for being gray and boring. I don't want to take that chance. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is too little understanding of the crisis in at least parts of the population. Then it's more important than ever, given the gravity of the situation, that we have politicians who dare say no and who say yes to something else, who dare to show moderation, and who take the situation seriously. It's got consequences. The finance minister has been involved in several things, and I could mention even more things we have said no to. There are restrictions, but perhaps the most important thing: we spend a lot of oil money on the economic situation in the country. In a world of uncertainty, the level of oil money use is now below 4 p.m., but we are gradually increasing the use of oil money. This is entirely in line with the spirit of the rule of action. That's exactly what's the whole point of the rule of action, that we should gradually increase the use of oil money. What else should we use them for? Should we just salt them away? No, no, no. But we're going to do it in a responsible, careful and predictable way, and that's what this budget is adding up to. This is how we ensure long-term funding for well-being. But then it's important how we spend the money, and what we spend it on. I think the government is putting forward a budget that prioritises the important things. As in the previous state budget, what is good is done for new and better roads, better maintenance, more and better police and emergency services, more health professionals, new health care facilities, more culture and security of defence. But then I would like to add that the transformation – innovation and technology – of the public sector, which means that business will save a lot of money, is also a very good move to equip Norway, the public sector and the Norwegian industry for the future. The conclusion is clear: we conduct a responsible economic policy, get order in the house, while building well-being throughout the country, with more community and more well-being. I would like to see that budget from the opposition that is capable of matching such a good budget, this autumn, here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e346	If the Chair of the Financial Committee is concerned about waiting a while, he shall see a budget that will match the budget of the Workers' Party – or the Red-Greens’ – when the Progress Party presents its alternative budget proposal. The chairman of the Financial Committee was concerned with the facts about this budget, which is that it is a gray and boring budget. It almost seems that the government has run out of ideas. It seems like they're management rents. We're going to do our job to make sure they get their payoff in two years, so they don't have to go and be hired for four more years. This budget is completely out of sight. The government is empty for ideas. They've become such an administrative party, where one of the big things is that they're increasing the appropriations for the administration in almost every department, and it's pretty powerful as well. The government's draft budget almost looks like we're part of southern Europe. There is no crisis in the Norwegian economy, and there is no reason to behave like that either. The budget has an unsocial side. So since this government came to power, they have increased the VAT on food from 11 to 15 pst. So it's like we all have to eat, whether we have a lot of money or we're poor. This means that this is an unsocial budget, as by increasing this levy, it affects those who have the least in society. Former Minister of Finance Halvorsen said she was going to clear up poverty in a moment. She has obviously given up on this, because the class distinction in Norway has increased. Since this government came in, we've got over 170,000 new ones on disability. So now you're going to take a grip on the deduction of disease costs, and you're going to do it at the same time as you're going to increase the deduction of your contributions to LO, so they're going to get more deductions from their quota. It's directly unsocial. It refers to southern Europe and the problems they have there. One of the major problems facing them in southern Europe is that they have not renewed the public sector. They have hired several bureaucrats, they have removed options, and they have inefficient public operations. There is no competition, and there are monopoly states. Although this is not so bad in Norway, it is also a problem in Norway. We should go the other way. We should introduce competition and freedom of choice, and we should renew the public sector. We had a round after the nursery arrangement where we got private to increase the welfare offer by offering an offer to all children. We should extend this. We should go the opposite way of what the government is doing. Instead of increasing administration, freedom of choice and competition in the public sector should be introduced in order to streamline the public sector. We should go through laws and regulations to change the rules, so that we get less bureaucracy, and so that the good bureaucrats we have around can go into the private sector and deliver a good product. I have just submitted a building request. There are so many aspects to that construction request! I consider myself to be an appropriate person, but I had to hire a private construction company to write the application. I was not able to do it myself. It cost me NOK 10 000. Then it's nice to hear the Minister of Finance standing up here and saying that it's very expensive to get into the housing market. This is one of the reasons it's expensive. But we don't hear any views about, for example. to reduce costs. Would it have been an idea to remove the document fee? Nothing is put in place to do it. Nothing is done to achieve the objectives of the national transport plan. The roadside is 1.7 billion. kr after. Perhaps a contribution to speeding up road construction was to launch large international tenders, so that we could build roads in this country, make investments, so that we got more efficient and got profitability up to meet future challenges. There's a lot of things you could bring up here, but one of the last things I'm going to do is police. There won't be any more visible police in the future. There's not going to be any more bets in the cannon offices, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e372	Then we're in the budget debate, and that's fine! It is to the extent the role of the opposition to be critical. I've been in opposition myself, so I know that. So it's nice that we get a discussion. Now the representative Svendsen comes from the northern latitudes. He probably lives near the sea. I live a little further into the country. But one who comes from North Norway knows that when it's upraged and 'ruskut' seas, then it's important to keep the course and rule. That's what this government is doing. There is an outrageous sea out there in Europe and in the international economy, which makes it more important than ever to hold the course and pursue a responsible economic policy – call it grey, but I believe that pursuing a policy that secures jobs is anything but a grey policy. Notice a couple of numbers in the budget. The availability of services in Norway is the lowest in Europe. There we want that freedom to be. We're going to have the lowest unemployment in Europe. That is why this is a responsible and good budget for work and value creation. So two more things. This government is committed to both the renewal of the public sector and the simplification of private activities: audit law, capital requirement, the large allocation of 1.5 billion emergency networks. kr that is in the budget, ICT in Nav and the police – simplifications that we will continue to work with, and that it is a programme for us to do. Finally, yes, this government has increased the VAT on groceries for two rounds by 1 percentage point each time, but we get to share fraternally with the government that was set up until 2005 and that provided the budget for 2006. There was an increase of 2 percentage points in the food tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e385	The finance minister pointed out that he has been an opposition politician in the past, and if everything goes according to my plan, he will soon be there again. The finance minister also says that I come from the north, where we are used to the rebellious seas. That's right: I come from the north, where we're used to the rebellious sea. It's like, when there's an uproar, we're making arrangements for the future. We can do that, for example. Make sure we don't run over all the mountain crossings we have in the north that cost us and cost us business. We could make investments for the future, set up businesses in the north and in the West to transport their goods into the markets, make large investments, have large international project offers put in place to build new, decent roads, so that we had got costs and diesel consumption down and environmental emissions down. So you don't. You put on a line where you're going to be 1.7 billion. kr by national transport plan. Then it's said in the budget that you have to transfer 5.6 billion. kr from the hospitals in connection with the cooperation reform, and then the municipal budget is increased by 5 billion. kr. Does that mean that you don't have an increase in the municipal budget, or does that mean that you can add up the two sums? I couldn't read it out of this, but it would have been interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e394	So this isn't a regular line change, so it won't give Johnsen the opportunity to answer right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e397	I hear some people think that the budget is gray. Let us be glad that there is still a blue sky over the Norwegian economy, for the 2012 budget shows that Norway still has a solid economy that creates freedom of action, and a low unemployment that creates security. It's a pretty strong contrast to the debt crisis that threatens both growth and jobs in the rest of Europe and the United States. At the same time, we should not forget that there are several European countries, including Sweden, that are doing well and that have shown an impressive ability to work out of the crisis. Although much is going well in Norway, we will of course notice the consequences of lower growth and worrying times in Europe. Our task is to address the challenges we can deal with. I think the Minister of Finance is right when he says that the Norwegian boat is on its way into troubled waters. But if you're going to judge by the budget, you might say that the government is still on the deck and suns. For this budget, it shows that the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises is further weakened in 2012. The budget shows that productivity growth in Norway, in our businesses, is lower than in our trading partners, and many of our export companies and jobs are now paying a high price for red-green policy. In the face of falling markets in Europe and the United States, Norwegian companies have to carry extra heavy backpacks with extraordinarily high cost levels and extraordinary taxes. Many companies have already notified leave and cancellations. The government is rescued in 2012 by high oil revenues. Without increased competitiveness, Norway will be even more dependent on oil revenues in the coming years. That is why there is a need to change policy. We must create security through knowledge and competitiveness. It might be right to say no to more, but then you have to say yes to something better. Retaining public expenditure is necessary to avoid stronger crowns, right-wing interest rates and further loss of competitiveness. However, a tight budget must only be part of the answer, because at the same time, clear priorities must be provided for what can generate growth in the future, namely innovation, knowledge, infrastructure and better framework conditions for Norwegian businesses. A tighter budget requires that we show the will and ability to open up new solutions. It is good to increase the allocations somewhat for infrastructure, but in the situation we are now, it should be more. At the same time, new solutions should be opened up, for example: through public-private cooperation. At the same time, there should also be more private solutions in the area of well-being – let go of all good forces, both private and non-profit, to meet some of the major tasks we face. One of the things that has surprised the Right Most in this budget is that no long-term and good priority is given to research. In this budget, the Research Fund is both shut down and removed the gift-enhancing mechanism, which means that the State is preparing for research when private research is being prepared. Right wants to continue a research fund that can contribute to high, stable and good research priorities in the future, so that we get more living from it. At the end of the financial year, the Minister of Finance addressed the challenges for young people by establishing himself on the housing market. When it is found that access to the housing market is problematic for young people, and we see that the Financial Supervisory Authority has made increased demands on equity in order to obtain loans, we politicians should respond to that challenge both by facilitating increased housing construction and by improving the housing saving system for young people. It would have been to give a handshake to young people who are struggling in the housing market — stimulating young people to save, giving them tax deductions, making it easier to obtain the first dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e417	First, just a follow-up to the previous exchange of words with the representative Svendsen. It is such that total income in the municipal sector increases by 5 billion. kr. In addition, 5.6 billion is transferred. D from hospitals to the municipal sector in connection with the Interaction Reform. It's kind of the picture that it's important to bring with it. I listened with interest to the representative Sanner, and I agree that we have a common cost-level challenge. That is why the state budget we are presenting today is an answer to this cost level; we are holding the course; we have a responsible economic policy; we are keeping order in our own house. In addition, we also have a responsibility to facilitate the implementation of a good spring income settlement. This means that professional rights, what happens in the workplace, are important. And I hope we can also agree on important devices in relation to how people should feel in their working life. Then there is an interesting observation, and that is that the Nordic countries, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, have proven to be relatively better than many other countries through the economic crisis. What characterises the Nordic countries is a relatively high level of taxation. Sweden has a higher level of taxation if you look at GDP than Norway has. But the fact that we have strong welfare states, the fact that we have a strong social security network is an important signal that this is a country that needs to take care of the labour force. It is an important competitive advantage. We're going to keep going on the cost. If you look at the expenditure growth in the 2012 budget, the real expenditure growth is 2.1 pst, and it is significantly below the expenditure growth in the current year's budget. Yes, we are facilitating competitive business through this budget. We're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e428	We agree that the Nordic model has proved robust through the crisis, and it is true that there are many countries, especially civilised countries in northern Europe, that have managed well and have managed to get out of the crisis. But weakened competitiveness is not something that has arisen this year. Every year under the red-green regime, competitiveness has deteriorated. It stayed during our reign. It is weakened year after year after the red-green government took over. If we look at productivity growth, it was higher in Norway than many of our trading partners in our reign. Today productivity growth is lower than that of our trading partners. This is important, because it is about the security of jobs in the future. It's about how we can create growth so that we get more well-being in the years to come. It doesn't just keep saying that we're going to have a tight budget, because that's just part of the answer. It is also necessary to show the will to create optimism, to create confidence in the future, to make investments, to provide a basis for future growth. It's about betting on the teachers, through more training. It's about investing in research. It is about investing in infrastructure, and it is about providing better framework conditions for businesses. But when you do this, of course you also have to be willing to take some unpopular grip. You have to be willing to build up over-administrative Norway, make sure that we have less administration and get more money for important investments. We need to ensure that government transfers are reduced to a range of industries and rather facilitate better framework conditions for businesses. It is possible to ensure that we both have budgetary rigour and provide a basis for future growth. Security and well-being in the future are created by investing in knowledge and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e435	As far as I know, it's the barometer to which the representative Sanner referred, which is one of the reasons why we're getting so much less competitive. It is about us being a country that has little differences and we have good arrangements for the workers, with social security. That's what they say. The countries around us are marked by crisis and cuts — unsocial cuts. Differences are increasing; the rich are getting richer, while most people get the bill. Even the EU is now discussing financial taxes, and that is good. Norway is a different country. We have less leave than before the financial crisis. We have increased employment by 250,000. In Norway, differences between people finally decline, after more than 20 years of increasing class distinctions. We're building up well-being. We say no to billions of tax relief to those who have more than enough, because we're opposed to larger class divisions, and because we'd rather build kindergartens and modernise the railway. We are opposed to removing the tax paid mainly by the richest people in Norway, namely the property tax. Instead, we increase the bottom line and make the tax fairer, just as we've done several times before. We're increasing the minimum deduction for people with low incomes, and we're going to evaluate an activity tax for the financial sector in Norway, because it's unreasonable for the community to take on a responsibility that the financial sector doesn't take on today. From the time we took over the Ministry of Finance in 2005, SV has worked for car charges that provide a more environmentally friendly car park. We have reduced emissions from new cars by 25 pst. Next year, new diesel cars will be more expensive, because we are concerned about taking into account asthmatics and the elderly with poor health. It is equally important that we lower the one-off charge for those cars that emit at least. The goal is to reduce to 120 grams of CO2 for new cars in 2012 and get more cars that can be charged. We are on the right track, as opposed to the EU, which has set its – less ambitious – emission targets. SV is involved in rail, because it is environmentally friendly, efficient, traffic-proof and good for business and a decentralised settlement. The railway and the NSB receive 1.3 billion. kr more in this budget. In a tight budget, we spend almost three billion dollars. kr for CO2 handling. The Ministry of the Environment is growing more than 6 pst. SV is concerned with child’s growing-up conditions. That is why we are strengthening the work of a more practical and varied school and the fight against apostasy. Elections will be introduced for the 8th stage next year. The protection of children shall be given 70 new posts in areas with a small professional environment. Kindergartens are the key to better child-growth conditions, better social mobility and better distribution in society. We liquidate the cash support for two-year-olds, because it is good for the children, good for equality and good for integration. We continue the maximum price in kindergartens, because we know that the price is important for children coming into kindergarten. In addition, we present a job strategy for people with disabilities. More people need to put their skills into practice in their working life. With money for a new law on defence, we are closer to ratifying the UN Convention against Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities. Speaking of discrimination: from next year it will no longer be possible to obtain tax deductions for gifts to organisations supporting or contributing to acts contrary to international law. This is particularly relevant for those who finance settlement in the Palestinian territories of the West Bank. With this, we give a clear message: the tax system should not premise violations of international law. Small differences and a good welfare country with a focus on education, knowledge and research are also important for business. It gives better workers, who are more willing to change, better qualified and better able to think of seas. Trust is a keyword. It's all about seeing that we have common interests, and that it's good to make spice layers. Today you need help, tomorrow it may be me. It's often said that you have to create to be able to share. But at the same time, sharing makes more people create. Sometimes I wonder how rich you must be before you become willing to share with others. This budget is tight, because we get a taste on the early wave, and because low unemployment is crucial. At the same time, SV believes that it is important to take forward debates concerning the relationship between private and public growth, and how Norway should become less vulnerable and less dependent on an oil sector that sucks at the expense of both people and capital by other sectors. This should also be part of the generation contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e469	Norway is facing a very changing international economic and political reality. The last ten years of ideological juggling of the freest possible cross-border capital movements, with the consequent weakening of national security legislation against financial institutions based on the experience of the financial crisis of the 1930s, have created a great deal of economic speculation and short-term economic thinking. The price must be paid once. The globalised economy did not have global economic institutions that were able to deal with the risks. As several of us critics of this global staged speculation have said for a long time, it was the economic muscles of the nation states that had to be used to dampen the first phase of the financial crisis. Now many large and important countries have exhausted their economic muscles, and we are facing a severe sovereign debt crisis in many tone-setting economies. It will find its solution, but the history of free capitalism is economic crises that also change political conditions. Today’s very high youth unemployment rates in countries like Italy, and most clearly in Spain, with over 45ps, are more than worrying when we know their history. Norway is in the opposite national situation. We're borrowing money, it's going to be hard to avoid loss. But this isn't going to be the biggest challenge for the red-green government. The most demanding thing is to ensure stable economic activity across the country through a more versatile manufacturing business, based on our enormous natural resources and full employment of our competent workforce. Economic activity in Norway needs to be decentralised in order to create a healthier real economy. Now the real economy must come in the front, the financial sector in the backseat. For the Central Party, there is a decentralisation perspective over all this work. Creating longer value chains based on our renewable and non-renewable natural resources is the major economic challenge. Loss of the food production levy for the food industry, which is very important, is a major and important measure. Nutrient neutrality in public economic instruments is a twin brother to the freest possible capital movements. Industrial neutrality on the part of the state is not enough to develop, for example, our important timber processing industry. Norway without wood processing is not Norway. In this uncertain and insecure international situation, the government is presenting a sober and tight government budget. The center part represents such a line. Accuracy in central government, order in public finances and in our own house are important living rules for us. A significant part of the increased economic resources created in the Norwegian economy next year, which is part of the country, is used to finance better communications and security of welfare services in municipalities and hospitals. The centre party has prioritised much safer and better roads and more modern railway networks, as well as ensuring good health care in municipalities and hospitals. Nevertheless, the municipal budgets for 2012 are getting tight. This is why working together on a better municipality in the direction of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is very important. This is based on practical learning to make better use of resources through cooperation between employees, elected representatives and administrations. A working environment that creates a happy and positive presence gives inspiration to the development of the authoritative human being. This should reduce sick leave in the healthcare sector. The centre party is standing upright and together behind this sober budget, facing a new era – I stress in response to a new era – the stronger priority and economy in all things is becoming more important. A new time to stimulate a more versatile, decentralised production life in mainland Norway must be given priority. As a country, we have strong financial strength and governance to strengthen the real economy, where the financial industry is silent and not the construction itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e497	Thanks to the Minister of Finance for a good account of a no-budget, which he spent a lot of time explaining the need for. However, I would venture the claim that much of what is in numbers and diets is primarily a projection of the current year's budget. Much, and many of the no coming, will be largely delegated to around 430 municipalities. I think those who listen to this out there will see where the cuts actually come from. I have to say that I appreciate a finance minister who also spends time talking about values that not only have to do with heads and ears. Then I think about more than doing it to say no to a virtue, just to get it said. What is, however, a clear message of value from this government – when it is so bare of ideology – is that it goes into a powerful attack on the families of young children. We remember that a former minister of knowledge in this government said that it is a mistaken view of child education to believe that ‘parents are the best to raise children’. From there, there is probably also a line to SV's fiscal figures who said it was good for the children to cut the cash support for the two-year-olds. It's extra interesting when the government assumes that only 30 pst. by the two-year-olds on cash support will move to kindergarten. So the family economy is weakened to the remaining 70 pst. It's spectacularly unsocial from a red-green government. So I'm going to include two positive things, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, in the case of children. The government is investing considerable resources to strengthen work for children at risk of trafficking in human beings. The government should have a big plus for that. The government's provision of education support for children in foster homes or in other forms of child-rescue care shall also be highly favoured by the government. At the same time, there is a lack of poverty in this budget. I almost did not hear the word used by the Minister of Finance – despite the fact that, compared to the three-year period 2004-2006, there are now 6,000 more children living in poverty. I also believe that when one sees it despite all the lack of willingness to invest in labour market measures, more – as Nav has announced – are actually being pushed into social security. The Christian People's Party has been involved in the care of the elderly and the guarantee of dignity. We want it to be more than a paper determination. I am still very uncertain whether the government believes the same thing. We believe that betting on the teacher is the best thing we can do in Norwegian school. The Minister of Knowledge said in the election campaign that it was desirable. Still, there is more to bet on hours than on teachers. It's a mistake priority, in our opinion. And then the government will wind up Jon Lilletun's research fund. I have to say, I'm surprised. Here, the technique has clearly won over the content. We'll bet more on research, and we don't want a liquidation, as the government says. More than 4,000 are in line for drug treatment. We are still waiting for a clarification on how to ensure that the ideal institutions get liberal working conditions in our society. Here we expect the government to come up with something more than it has now done. Then it's just to note that the aid is being cut. It's serious. So in a situation where food prices are rising worldwide, our solidarity with the poorest is on the way down. So I just want to ask the Minister of Finance, who now gets the floor: is there any room for action for the red-greens in this room before we are going to adopt the final budget closer to Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e531	Yes, it's probably true that the municipalities will see this as a tight scheme, but they get an increase in their free revenues of 3.75 billion. kr and a total growth of 5 billion. NOK, in addition to the SEK 5,6 billion. to cover the work to be done in connection with the Interaction Reform. As this has been arranged for primary municipalities, they will be able to carry out demography and other important tasks, including road-stakes in the county council, and please have little to go on. In the counties there is likely to be slightly less in free income than it was for the current year. So there's going to be a little less room for action in the county, to say it that way. This government has made a strong commitment to families with children – about 27 billion. kr to kindergartens. We're going to continue to improve the quality of kindergartens. We will continue to strengthen childcare facilities in this way – support for learning material, parental deduction. It's a historic bet on families with children. Then there is disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the government about the cash support. What we're doing is removing the cash support for two-year-olds, but we're increasing the cash support for them between 13 and 18 months. This must be seen in the context of the strong focus on kindergartens. The most important poverty response in this budget and in the budget we have this year is to ensure that people have jobs. In addition, we have announced that we will investigate an activity support scheme for young people coming from poor - advised families. It was in the distribution message, which was submitted last Friday. The reason why we wind up the Research Fund is that we believe that it will be more predictable for research if we grant research funding across the line, as it says. The challenge now is that interest rates have fallen and there is uncertainty about research appropriations. We want to remove that uncertainty with the grip we're now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e544	It's nice to have the Minister of Finance standing by. When he didn't answer if there was any room for action for the Red-Greens in the Storting, then it has become one of the virtues, namely, that there is also a no in terms of the possibility that something can happen in this hall after diverse organizations and others have presented other possible consequences of the government's arrangement than the government itself had actually intended. I just hope that it will be possible to make changes better for the Norwegian people when we get to December. Back to the families of children: it's a powerful ideological signal, because it's justified that you now have a right to kindergarten. In other words, it does not seem that parents — not the state, but the parents — should have an opportunity to choose what is right for their children. That's what the government is giving clear information about. And if I know this government right, I guess two out of three parties also mean the same thing when it comes to the 1-year-olds. So here there's a clear ideological distinction between the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green Government, and it's of a pretty profound ideological nature. We also note some small cuts that will not surprisingly affect tasks in the Norwegian community that the Christian People's Party is engaged in: belief training can be one, support for private church building another. So there are small drops that also have to be a wide signal, as I see it, about what you weigh and not weigh by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e555	There is a great deal of seriousness about the Storting today's budget work for 2012. There is a disturbing and unbridled economic picture in the countries around us that many people have been involved in. This is also particularly true of Norway. We have an open economy with close economic ties to the world around us. Lower growth in other countries will have a negative impact on the Norwegian economy. A strong krone will hit the companies that live by exports to the rest of the world, and many jobs may thus be outsourced. However, we do not see anything about the tightness of the budget. The government adds up to a budget as close to 4 pst. rule as possible, and spends 10 billion. kr more in oil money in 2012 than in 2011. It's not too tight, but it has the wrong tightness, as the Left sees it. Of course, the budget submitted is not a problem in isolation. As the Left sees it, however, in six years you have had a rather massive use of money without any clear profile. Instead of focusing on the future, efforts have been made on the part of the past and on the part of the public sector. For the Left, it is obvious that we need a new policy for a modern low-carbon society. We need a knowledge society and a reform for a warmer welfare society. I would like to point out three areas in which I believe we can give a completely different priority and which will not result in increased pressure on the economy or in increased use of money. The first is the need for a powerful green tax shift. I cannot, with my best will, understand the government's reluctance to use the tax system actively in the service of the environment. More taxes on consumption and environmentally hostile behaviour, less on work and investment in business and jobs are future tax policies. The second is the net pay scheme. As far as we've been able to read, the government is continuing a subsidy scheme to the «richest of the country» of $1.7 billion. kr. One subsidizes an industry that totals billions of profits, and that at the top of it all does not pay taxes on profits. The left will rather spend this money on a targeted investment in the new business we're going to live off in the future. This is what is called giving priority to the big money on the important issues. The third is a need to get more people to work longer. Far more than expected, early retirement takes place in the new pension system. This means an increase in the cost of the state budget of several billion. Why does this happen? Yes, AFP. The left will rather use the AFP crowns to strengthen the welfare systems of those who really need it, for example. the poorest children. However, it is good that the government will facilitate the creation of more disabled people in work. CO2 emissions are rising, while the climate agreement, to which the government obviously has a very relaxed relationship, would just get the opposite. It is difficult to see a single measure in the currently submitted state budget proposal that will lead to reductions in CO2 emissions in 2012. What is increasing is largely going to finance delays in the projects in the field of CO2 clean-up and rail. Railways are good. At the same time, there is a sharp escalation of oil production in the north. But the big scandal in the budget is undoubtedly research and education. The total research effort, as a result of the budget, is falling from 0.94 to 0.92 of GNI – the research fund is being cut down, the gift-enhancing scheme is being reduced, energy research is being reduced, no new scholarship positions, no more places to study, no increase in teacher training, because this is always due to local authorities. Finally, the left had hoped to see again some of the many — and in our eyes good — proposals we have had in this room for small and medium-sized enterprises, but one at a time. On the other hand, the permitting rules are tightened. Left will reduce the requirements to 20 pst. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, will we ever look again at the Left's alternative budget proposal during this period of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e594	As an answer to the last question, we are formulating a budget that is linked to the red-green government platform and what we think is good red-green policy. But at the same time, I think it's important to listen to and see what other parties propose in that process. As good suggestions from the Left as we also think are good, we should never throw wrecks – to say it that way. So I would say that this government is focused on building out both welfare and value creation. That's what's one of the main points of this budget. I see that others may have a slightly different opinion about it, but that is at least what is the base of the budget. For example, we follow. information on what we have said about care for the elderly. It's important. We follow up on dementia. We build security through grants to social security and police. The NTP is stepped up, something more than steady escalating on the railway, which is good, somewhat less on the road. There is a historical commitment to research by this government. Research appropriations have increased sharply since we took over in 2005, far above the level set by the previous government. We are the country in the OECD that uses almost the most per capita of research. 25 B.C.E. EUR is granted for research in this budget. So it's also the way – I just want to repeat what I said about the fund – that it was uncertain how much the fund could contribute to the return when the interest rate changed. The interest rate has fallen. We believe that the availability of research appropriations is more predictable, so that it becomes an ordinary part of the budgetary procedure and the budgetary impact adjustment. It is an important signal to the research communities that we want greater predictability and greater security for future research funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e603	I thank the Minister of Finance for his feedback. As far as the Research Fund is concerned, I think we have a very different view of it and the possibility of predictability. But that debate has ample opportunity to take place later on when the technical proposals are to be debated here in this Chamber. So I often feel that the Workers' Party is not flirting – it is a wrong word to use – but I would like to cooperate with the Christian People's Party and the Left. But when it comes to politics, and when we get to this room, we don't see anything left of that exact piece. We do not feel that the alternative budgets and all the proposals we make are being taken seriously. If you want to work together, you actually have to show it in real politics. So the Left will continue, as we have always done, to create our alternative budgets, where we prioritise four areas: we will solve the climate challenges, which we believe this budget is failing. We want a completely different focus on education and research and training of teachers. Here, too, the municipalities are to blame. I think that's going to be wrong. We have to bring in more government funds. And then we have to organize what we're going to live on in the future, small and medium-sized enterprises. We've come up with some audit obligations and some share subsidies, but that's it. We have to go on – we have to have better social rights, and we have to simplify in small businesses. Finally, we simply have to dispose of our money so that we have more to the poorest. We are also calling for that in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e614	It opens for the last post and comment by the Council of State, Sigbjørn Johnsen, with a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e618	First, I would like to thank you for the round we have now had, a preliminary round on the state budget. We'll get back to it later, I guess. Let me just repeat: the world around us is marked by uncertainty and prospects for low growth. Unemployment has fallen at a high level internationally. It is such that behind each number in the statistics, there is a human being who has been deprived of the possibility of using his greatest value, namely his own labour force. We see that weak government finances in some European countries can enter the banking system, and one is in a vicious circle where lower government incomes are increasingly making it harder and more demanding to deal with sovereign debt. What is a key message in the 2012 budget is that Norway can be affected by the turmoil we are now facing. The way Norway can be hit is uncertain, but what we see and know is that at least there can be lower exports and declines in competitive industries. The Norwegian banking system can be hit. So it's important that we constantly have great vigilance and readiness in the situation we see in the international economy, because Norway is part of this international economy, and we are being affected, as I have said earlier today. If the situation requires that this is necessary, we've shown in the past that we can quickly change the course. But what course to choose then depends on what kind of ‘weather’ we come out for. It's different now than it was in 2008. Now it is the competitive businesses that will be most vulnerable if the unrest in Europe and the United States increases. We've learned something from the crisis we're looking at. One is that it's important to keep government finances in order. Strengthening work and growth opportunities in the economy is important in order to avoid social unrest. It is important to invest in knowledge, which this government does not least through the 2012 budget. It is important to invest in transport and it is important to invest in other areas that support value creation. It is important to focus on the safety of workers in the labour market, as part of building up under competitiveness. Finally, Norway has been in a difficult situation in the past. What we have done then is that through leadership and good cooperation between the authorities, the social partners and the business community, we have found the way out of crisis. Therefore, accountability and cooperation are important for meeting future crises and for building up confidence in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e635	So the debate is on case No. 1 over. The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s presentation of the Government’s proposals for the State budget and the national budget for 2012 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-06.ana.ud200e685	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
