ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Fridtjof Frank Gundersen died on November 11, 2011, at the age of 77. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen was born on 29 October 1934 at Tynset. After graduating artium in 1954 he first took the Russian Defence Course before he became cand.jur. in 1961, after law studies at the University of Oslo. Gundersen then worked as a secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until 1965, when he became a private law lecturer at the University of Oslo before moving to a new position in public law in the same place in 1970. He took a legal doctorate in 1973, and his career gained further speed when he was appointed professor of law at the Norwegian School of Business in 1975. He also wrote and edited a wide range of professional books and writings — many of them textbooks on legal and economic matters. He was an active professional and was particularly concerned with, among other things. commercial law. In the beginning of his political career, Gundersen was first active in the Right. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Right «Thinking Group 99» from 1966 to 1971. The first of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's four peak periods was from 1981 to 1985. Then he was elected from Akershus on the program of the Progress Party, but without even being a member of the party. In his second period at Stortinget, from 1989, he joined the Progress Party in 1990. Gundersen was then reelected in 1993 and 1997, and was then a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In 2001 he separated teams with the Advance Party. The Gundersen marked itself with frequent involvement in the social debate, both as a politician and as a law professor. He was particularly closely involved in foreign and defence policy and was often at the centre of many ongoing social debates. Gundersen was particularly concerned with European policy and was active in many committees, delegations and selections through its activities in the United Kingdom. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen was never a boring politician. He was known for his humor and quick line. He will be remembered as a person who could start a political debate, but also as a sharp and thorough professor and politician with a broad field of interest. We remember Fridtjóf Frank Gundersen for his work in the Storting and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e71	The representatives Dag Ole Tegen and Karin S. Woldseth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former deputy of the Rogaland County, Arne Bergsvåg, has taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the Eastfold County, Erlend Wiborg, there is an application for exemption from meeting in the Stortinget from 5 December and until further notice, due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the Eastfold County, Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, are invited to meet under the authority of the representative Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e102	Monica Carmen Gåsvatn is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Ivar Kristiansen and Erna Solberg on leave from 5 December to 7 December – both to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the representatives Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Trine Skei Grande, Oskar J. Grimstad, Marianne Marthinen and Torstein Rudihagen on leave from 5 December to 9 December, from the representative Erling Sande on leave from 5 December to 9 December. 1500 to 9 December, and from the representatives Siri A. Meling and Snorre Serigstad Elections on leave from 6 December to 9 December – all to participate in the high-level part of the 17th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the seventh meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Durban, South Africa, by the representative Dagfinn Højbräten on leave on Monday 5 December for, as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund, to attend the Geneva meeting On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Hedmark County: Eli SkolalandFor Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-BolstadFor More and Romesdal County: Jon Georg DaleFor Nordland County: Jonni Helge SolsvikFor Uppland County: Espen Granberg JohnsenFor Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Ola ElvestuenFor Rogaland County: Tina Bru and Kjell Arvid Svendsen. For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus OlsenFor South-Trandelag County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e204	Eli Skoland, Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad, Jon Georg Dale, Jonni Helge Solsvik, Espen Granberg Johnsen, Karin Yrvin, Ola Elvestuen and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e212	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e215	On behalf of the big business representatives Nikolai Astrup, Svein Flätten, Øyvind Halleraker, Ingerd Schou and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a strategy for the use of biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e221	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e250	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Children's Equality and Inclusion Minister 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from main speakers from each group and up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e261	Although the registered unemployment rate in Norway is low, there are increasing numbers of people who are out of work in whole or in part. From 2008 to 2010, the number of beneficiaries of social assistance has increased by 10,144 persons, corresponding to about 14 new beneficiaries each day during that period. Every year since 2005, we have had a net increase in the number of disabled people. On average, there has been a net increase of 20,000 people per year who are permanently out of work and on permanent disability. The active share of health-related benefits has never been higher and is currently around 600 000 people. It seems worrying that the number of young people unemployed, and especially young people receiving social assistance, is increasing sharply. The Progress Party is engaged in a flexible working life with room for all. In order to succeed in a flexible working life, a number of proposals are fully dependent, a number of measures to strengthen the ability of the most vulnerable to return to work. As I said, although unemployment in Norway is relatively low compared to other countries, those with disabilities are still struggling to enter the labour market. 78 000 people with disabilities report that they want to enter the labour market, but are currently outside the labour market. The proportion has remained unchanged for a long, long time — in the whole of the 2000s, it has been unchanged — and is well behind the participation of the rest of the population. It is also worth noting that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities who work has fallen from about 30 pst. to 13 pst. only in the last nine years, according to headlines. It concerns the Progress Party. That is why the Progress Party believes it is important and absolutely essential that, as I said, a number of measures be taken and that there is an increased commitment to a flexible working life with room for all. Therefore, the Progress Party outlines an alternative job strategy for the government. I will naturally be allowed to give tribute to the government that is presenting a job strategy, which I think is positive, and that is something you should pay tribute to. At the same time, however, I think that the measures taken in that job strategy are far too vague in relation to the challenges you face, in order to succeed in the tasks you should have succeeded – getting more people with reduced working capacity into working life. I note that the government attaches great importance to continuing the current pilot schemes, experimental schemes that have largely existed for 10 years. I would have liked to have thought that you could get more duration in this offer. This is why the Progress Party also wants to provide an alternative package of a variety of measures. We want to increase the use of wage subsidies and introduce a flexible payroll scheme, a new scheme, and at the same time other measures that will allow more chronically ill and disabled people to enter the labour market. Then you also have to give money, and that is why we want to increase the funding in that area by 515 million. kr. The Progress Party also wants to establish 8 000 more action sites – 8 000 in total in labour market action sites and 5000 in the sheltered sector. 2 500 of these we want to designate VTA sites, precisely because we see that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities has been dramatically reduced in the last nine years in terms of their participation in the world of work. There is also a need to be willing to use better tools, to have more action places to ensure that more people are able to do so, rather than to be sidelined, and that the only provision you have is day-to-day places in municipal provision. The Progress Party appears to be much more socio-economic and sustainable to bet in several VTA sites. At the same time, the Progress Party notes that the government has committed itself to changing the payment arrangements for the action sites. It seems that the Progress Party is somewhat strange and at the limit of the unprofessional when we know that the Brofoss Committee has been very clear about going through the funding mechanisms. I find it strange that the government's proposal is being implemented without even having to comply. It should also have been done as the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, and asked for this to be determined and seen in a context, and let the Brofoss Committee look at the matter and put it in its position. I'm recording that the government parties don't want that. The Progress Party also wants, together with both the Right and the Christian People's Party, to strengthen the efforts related to measures for the disabled by transforming work and education trips into a permanent system funded by the public interest. We also want to have a permanent system of functional assistance. These are actions that we know to work and that are optimal. Why in the world should you keep trying, when you know that you can make them permanent? The Progress Party also wants to increase its efforts to combat poverty. Unfortunately, I record that the food chain Kiwi has done more for the poor than the sitting government, by saying that Kiwi has at least managed to implement the fact that there is no need for VAT on fruit and vegetables. The party notes, as stated, that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance has increased by 10 000 and that child poverty has increased by 6 500 compared to the three-year period 2004–2006. The Progress Party therefore believes that it makes sense to have a clear and focused approach to a number of poverty-reduction projects. The Progress Party believes that greater interaction between the public, private and voluntary teams and organisations is essential. For this reason, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party has put forward proposals of 10 million. EUR 20 million for various pilot schemes to promote social entrepreneurship. SEK to the employment training project for young beneficiaries of social assistance and SEK 20 million. kr to projects such as the Int-Tuned and Blue Seas in Austevoll. We have also proposed 100 million. to a clear strengthening of voluntary teams and organisations such as the Church's Bymition, the Red Cross and the Marita Foundation. In particular, we point there at the Marita Bo Foundation to improve the situation regarding housing for disadvantaged and drug users. We believe that it's a right way to go, to play with the volunteers. We miss the government's commitment in this area. I would have liked to have wanted a clearer direction from the government – not just words and expressions that you want to facilitate the volunteers, but that you also do it in practical policy. The Progress Party has also made changes to its alternative budget, which will improve the situation of Norwegian pensioners. We remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners and give all minimum pensioners the same minimum performance regardless of marital status. In addition, we are proposing changes in public service pension, which means that those who take out a social security pension at 67 years of age, but continue to work in public and earn occupational pensions, will have other curtailment rules that make it more profitable to stand in the workplace. Today, we have rules, which are pointed out from this room earlier, which leads to a curtailment of your pension as if you've earned a retirement pension until you're 70 years old, if you earn a retirement pension until you're 70 years old. Finally, I will be allowed to say: I am pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have a strong and common approach to how we will solve the challenges of labour, welfare and social policy in the future. We use clear principles to maximise participation in working life in order to ensure and strengthen the welfare society, to encourage the welfare system to work and activity, to pay off work, to ensure that everyone has a responsibility to fight poverty and exclusion, to ensure that all Norwegian citizens have a decent standard of living that enables them to take advantage of their opportunities as participants in society, and, in particular, to have good welfare arrangements that ensure that persons who, for various reasons, do not have the opportunity to participate fully in normal working life or who experience unemployment are part of general welfare developments. These are strong, healthy and good principles for more people to use their abilities and facilities for their own good and for society. These principles show that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are united on good political solutions in this area, and that better solutions can be found in this area if a government change is to take place in 2013. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e291	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e296	We just heard from representative Eriksson that Nav should do more – Nav should do much more than today. At the same time, the Progress Party in the Committee's position has made a sweeping criticism of Nav in almost all areas. It has to get into something. What will the Progress Party do with Nav if they come to government in cooperation with other parties on the assumption? Should they change management and reduce the number of employees? Do you want them to convert Nav, or do you want them to privatize Nav? To be honest, I think the time has come for the Progress Party to give some answers to the criticism that they are correcting in the vote and that hits Nav with full weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e303	Firstly, I receive a number of daily enquiries from users who have serious problems with Nav, who feel that they are not being taken seriously. The criticism we have expressed in our position is criticism, among other things. The Labour Research Institute has detailed its report. Extracts from the National Audit Office have been made with their reports of criticism directed at Nav. We want to make Nav better. I believe that Nav is a proper construction, but it has to be done better. It has to be converted, it has to be simplified and made more streamlined, so it makes it easier for users, and they get better services. We also know that the way in which administrative units are reorganized has led to less time for users and less professional competence in meeting first-line users. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it necessary to seize and restore resources and competences to the first line service, which is to meet users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e312	The Progress Party is concerned that there are many people in social assistance. I am horrified by what the Progress Party then proposes. It's cut to over 1 billion. SEK to single caregivers, who then have to go to social assistance. This applies to thousands of single-parent families. They remove the additional benefit for older people who are unable to work and are not entitled to an old age pension. They don't want the qualifying benefit, which is now provided to over 8,000 people who would otherwise be on social assistance. They tickle so much that thousands of people would lose the disability right over Christmas if the Progress Party had got its budget through. They also remove the individual benefit that young people can get through Nav if they participate in interventions. Thousands of people would be entitled to social assistance if the Progress Party got its budget through. Has the Progress Party really counted the number of people they send right for social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e319	Firstly, I am very happy to have that question, because the Progress Party has a completely different, alternative, approach to solving the poverty problems in Norway. We think it makes more sense to align this with increased activity than passivity, and that people should go on passive benefits. That is why we are also taking action on the transitional regime, which involves a reduction from three to one year. It must be much better for people to have early follow-up and get into the ordinary working life – than they go passive – far more than what has been the case until now. If we look at the cash support, if we look at sick money and stuff like that, it's given for a year. Why should the same criteria not be used, for example: the transitional arrangements? In the case of supplementary social benefits, the Progress Party does not remove this, we transfer it to the municipalities. We transfer it to the local authorities' responsibilities and do not remove a penny of it. So they're positive wrong, the claims that come from Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e328	Now, the representative Eriksson is not helping to put the answer to the last question I asked, but I'm going to give him a new opportunity, in a new area. In his statement, he stressed that the Progress Party would remove the spouse curtailment within the pension scheme and make other changes to the pension scheme. But what can be the result of the fact that he does not have the effect of his possible government partners in this way with regard to these proposals? Has the representative Eriksson thought about it, or is it the case that these proposals are being promoted only because they will never be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e335	Firstly, the pension reform has been addressed some years ago. The Progress Party was the only party on the Stortinget that opposed the pension reform, had its own policies and solutions to it. These solutions and policies stand at the heart of the Progress Party. So does it in the future. We want to fight to get rid of the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. We know that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have been involved in a pension settlement, but within that pension agreement, it will also be possible, if you get government cooperation with those parties, to come up with solutions. What solutions can then be found will be a question of negotiation on the day we have won the elections. I do not foreshadow and negotiate it via line exchanges in a budget debate in Stortinget on it at least. I think we should wait until the election result is available. So we can sit down and negotiate. I am convinced that we will arrive at a good political platform for pensioners in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e342	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e346	Many millions of people in the countries around us are meeting a sad Christmas. The job crisis in Europe puts millions of people in a hopeless situation — without work, without income, many without the ability to feed themselves and their families. Today, tens of millions of young people in Europe are out of work, and more are out of work. We often talk in this debate about a lost generation. I want us to be more optimistic on behalf of young people and on behalf of Europe than to say that they are lost. But that they're a neglected and ignored generation, there's no doubt about it. They have never been put on, either when it comes to educational opportunities or in the labour market. These young people, all over Europe, are now paying the price of the financial crisis, and it is harder than anyone else. A Greek friend of mine has to the next year, after seven years of studies, nothing but free time to expect. He dares not hope for progress and moves home to his parents to participate in their work on their farm. It is in completely different circumstances that we are discussing the 2012 budget here today. We have a high level of employment, many participate in Norway. We have low unemployment, an equal society in all areas, well-being from cradle to grave, and we are year after year nominated by the United Nations to the world's best country to live in. Even during the financial crisis, we have succeeded in holding on to this, and we shall succeed through the turbulent times we have in front of us. That's why the budget for next year is also linked to one thing: keeping unemployment low, keeping people at work. Nothing is more important than that. That's why we don't have room for experiments either. We're not going to gamble with people's jobs. A bad course is therefore the only right thing to succeed through the crisis. The fact that we have succeeded well in Norway is not a matter of course. It's a result of conscious political choices. It's also the result of a political struggle. Our situation is unique compared to the challenges facing other European countries now. It's because our community model is unique. It is the one that makes us in the top level international in terms of being able to combine even income distribution, high employment, small differences, well-being for all, equality, competitiveness and innovation. That's why most people look at us. With our model, we distinguish ourselves from most other countries. However, high levels of employment and low levels of unemployment have not come about by themselves. This will include, inter alia: of the fact that our working life is characterized by cooperation. Strong trade unions and tripartite cooperation ensure this. Welfare schemes that take on you were when you cannot work, have not come about by yourself either. We've achieved that because we've organized ourselves in such a way that everyone is in a solid fissure layer. Social security, our common insurance system, gives people something to live on through sickness, unemployment and retirement. This means that we have few poor people in Norway — and it is financed by income taxes. The fact that we conduct an active public ownership policy ensures long-term financial interests and control of our natural resources. This has not come about by itself either. The fact that we are an equal country has been – and is – a political struggle. All of this that I have now mentioned is related and is the reason why we have succeeded. That's the Norwegian model. Although the right-hand side concludes with the results of the Norwegian model — low unemployment, good economy and safe welfare — they have, through history, fought against the policy that constitutes the model and that has just produced the results. The Labour Party will continue. We want to strengthen the model and further develop the Norwegian success. More people go to work in Norway than in any other country. For most people, the workplace we go to is a good place to be. We experience predictability, security, and we get a salary that's to live on. But that doesn't apply to everyone. The working party wants everyone to come along. It also applies in the workplace. More can, and more will contribute. They'll be allowed to do that. We will get more by creating a more inclusive working life and a more inclusive working line. This is why we are renewing and strengthening the workline and welfare state every day – the Nav reform, the pension reform, the disability reform, the job strategy, the IA work and the fight against social dumping. In our field – the field – now happens more than ever before. These are not just major welfare reforms. There are improvements, there is innovation, and there are concrete policies that increase the community and get more. For more people to join, we're totally dependent on Nav working. That is why Nav is also a budget winner in this budget. It has been important for us to prioritise Nav in the budget. Nav now gets what Nav needs in order to be able to follow people up better. Nothing else is more important than that. To get more involved, we also put forward the job strategy in the budget, a long-term strategy with concrete measures to get more disabled people into work. We continue the qualification programme to get more of those who may be far from the labour market into action. We're concerned that people shouldn't go on passive social benefits over time. That is why we are already following parts of the position of the Brochmann Committee in the budget when we impose activity requirements on the transitional benefit. For the Workers' Party, the workline is the one that applies. But it always has two tracks for the Workers' Party. You should not only be obliged without having the right to help at the same time. It is our workline – an inclusive workline with help and support, so you can get into activity and contribute. There's a difference between our line of work and our line of work on the right. Where we believe that you should not only have an obligation to contribute, but also a right to be helped to contribute, the right-hand side means something else. People can't be threatened at work. People don't get into work just because you take from them the social security, but it seems that the opposition, represented by the Progress Party and the Right, still thinks, when they remove the transitional benefit for lone dependants to finance tax cuts where the highest income and wealth gets the most. Using a whip in this way is no longer allowed. It just creates more poor people. It is the result of a single-track work line where only the obligation applies. We don't just want more people in work. We want the working life that people go into to be a work life that is safe and of high quality. It is the Norwegian labour market today for most people. It has not come about by itself either. Strong professional rights, occupational health and safety legislation and the right to influence over your own working life ensure this for the vast majority, but not for everyone. We'll do something about that. That is why, in this budget too, we are strengthening the fight against social dumping with money and measures. Here, too, the position stands alone. On the right, they say they are committed to combating social dumping, but do not support our most effective action against it — nor in this budget. Social dumping affects honest work. It hits the ground level of Norwegian society. It leads to a two-track work life, and it creates an A and B team of workers. It is a threat to our efficient business and is fundamentally a threat to our entire well-being. The right-hand side says it's okay to compete on pay and work terms. It is an expression of an immature policy and an immature attitude that not everyone should be included on equal terms. Because we want more people to join us, we also strengthen the fight against involuntary part-time. We all agree that part-time work is good for many in different parts of life and in different situations of life. We also agree that the vast majority of those who work part-time want to do so. They'll be allowed to do that. What we want to live is those who involuntarily go on small job breaks through large parts of their lives – those who want to work, but don't get it. Involuntary part-time is unemployment and must be combated as such. Hundreds of thousands of ladies don't get established, plan their lives, take up loans – they're not financially self-sustaining because they don't get to work enough. We want these ladies to come with us. For this reason, in the employment message, we take a take-off against involuntary part-time, for example. with legislative changes. We're also following up on the state budget with 25 million dollars. for local measures and trials. Here too, the opposition has a different policy. Right removes the whole pot. A budget cut might say more than a thousand words, and the right here says with its budget cut that these ladies, who are fighting to make it go around, just keep fighting – and it's going to happen without Right Help. So finally, I want to take up a correction in the setting. Proposal No. IX on page 81 may be deleted. It's not included. It's not because we've changed and we want to take it out, but because it's inserted in the right setting, the setting from the committee to Prop. 7 L, which we also treat today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e382	Then we have recorded that change in the setting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e387	First, I want to say that we actually support the project involuntary part-time – that is what it is said from here. In fact, several studies show that many people who want to go into job breaks do not actually want to go into 100 pst. position. They might want to go from 50 pst. to 80 pst., and the problem might not be as big as one trusted initially. That's why I think the challenge in the future must be to focus more on keeping the people we want, especially in health care, and not least recruiting new ones. The former working party colleague Hanssen was also concerned about this at a Specter conference recently, and I share his view. But the Labour Party on Stortinget shares this concern, and will they do something about it, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e396	I am a little uncertain which of my former colleagues the representative Mr Reiertsen now refers to, so I cannot answer that question. I just want to say that I fully agree that we have challenges when it comes to recruiting care professionals in the future. Then I think doing something about the part-time issue is essential to increase recruitment and raise the status of the professions. We're going to need more hands in the future. The right-hand side removes the $25 million pot. kr to involuntary part-time. The Progress Party does not. But in other policies, both the Progress Party and the Right have opposed most of the proposals made by the government, among others. legislative changes in order to overcome involuntary part-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e403	It is striking that there has been an increase in the use of part-time after this pot came, but we can probably have a debate on that later. I am very pleased that the representative Trettebergstuen addresses the discussion on working conditions and how Norwegian working life is. It's quite obvious that it's e.g. has a common labour market in Europe, making it possible to put pressure on a part of Norwegian working life. We also know that we are e.g. in the vicarbranse has seen some single examples of unprofessional operators. That is why the Right Party and the Labour Party want to introduce the so-called temporary agency directive, precisely because we need to ensure that there are good and proper conditions – including for those working in the personnel industry. The question to the representative of Trettebergstuen – because I have registered that there is no agreement on this in the government – is whether she can say and guarantee that the Workers' Party will be involved in the introduction of the temporary agency directive, to the joy of Norwegian workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e412	This question is addressed by the government. The directive is there. The Workers' Party Group has endorsed the inclusion of the Directive by the Government. This is because we believe that the principle of non-discrimination is good. Subsidiaries shall have the same remuneration and labour rights as employees of the lessee. We're just for that. We assume that when implementing the Directive, the provisions of the Working Environment Act on rentals should remain in place. It's important to us. We want a working life based on regular, secure employment, where the use of temporary workers and temporary workers is restricted, as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e417	The Christian People's Party shares the representative's view that we need more work and that we need to help more people in the work. That is why I would also like to remind the representative of the Trettebergstien in this budget that there are still a lot of people who are out of work and who need our help to get back. That's why I went to Nav today and printed out the last numbers from the first 10 months of 2011, and it turns out there are 217 000 people with disabilities. An average of 57 700 places of action for people with disabilities have been implemented this year. Well, that's good. However, in the 2012 budget, it is up to 54,200 – approximately. 3 500 fewer response sites. How can the representative of Trettebergstuen say that this budget for 2012 will include and help more people return to work, when the figures show that there will be a significant decline in 2012 and that there is still 160,000 without action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e424	I believe that the level we have set ourselves in this budget for action places for people with disabilities is a good level. Our use of action, along with our overall policy to include more, I am sure will produce results even in the years that come, but primarily in the long term. The job strategy is a good example of this. The level of action is right, but the whole of politics, what we do to prevent people from falling outside and preventing it, and what we do in all other areas, other budget areas, too few people with, is important. That is why we believe that, with our overall policy, we are at the right level of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e431	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e434	Herøya Industripark in Porsgrund can be seen as a picture in Norway – a Norway in miniature. To put it simply, 30 years ago, Herøya Industripark and Porsgrund were municipalities, so to speak. On Her Island you could come if you had a stand-on-will and stood up in the morning. Then the chance was great for you to get a safe job for the rest of your life – at least until a few years ago. If you go to Herøya Industripark today, you can see that there are other companies there than before – old Hydro has hardly any employees left. You can see that they have higher productivity than before, they produce more in value, but at the same time, fewer people work there. Those who work there are different – they have different skills than they had for just a few decades ago. It's highly educated people with professional skills or people who have a lot of experience, and in that way, knowledge of the workplace and the work process they're doing. Here Industripark shows the success story of Norway in many ways, namely that we have managed to maintain industry and jobs in Norway through conversion, cooperation between employees and employers and by producing things better than our competitors. At the same time, Herøya Industripark can also illustrate some of our dilemma – or the shadow side, if you like – in the Norwegian model. The question may be what is happening today to the 18-year-old who comes up at the factory door, knocks on the door and asks for a job. 30 years ago, if you were completely hopeless, you could go to sea. By meeting your workmates, you could grow up as a person, get into the workplace. Today, it is not necessarily the case that working life has room for the 18-year-old who has first left school without having learned to read and write well enough, then has dropped out of high school and then entered the public system or is trying to get out of work. At the same time, Herøya Industrial Park and the workplaces are under pressure in other areas as well. I sometimes feel that not everyone – including everyone in Norwegian policy – has taken on board the violent challenges we face. The assumption for the Norwegian model is that our wealth is not adopted by a political party, but is created every day by those who go to work and contribute to the Norwegian community – it is entrepreneurs, nurses, industrial workers or engineers. That's why it's a problem when our competitiveness is weakened, compared to our competitors. We have a huge challenge as we now face a situation of economic turmoil in Europe and the United States. It is a challenge in the long term that the centre of gravity of the world economy is moving towards the East. China is growing, India is growing, and they're not going to be satisfied in the long run with just producing goods for us. And then they're going to have the interesting and exciting jobs that we have today. It is a problem that Norway is resting on the ground in terms of competitiveness, which in practice means that we are slowing down as compared to our competitors. It is a problem that we invest too little in research and education, and it is a problem that we have not used the good years we had – and still have – to reform and change. Sometimes it seems that the political debate has not addressed these enormous challenges. Instead, there will be a debate on small amounts and increased transfers for more or less good purposes. One forgets the very basic principle behind our social model: that the Norwegian model and well-being rest on our work. It is also a problem that we have not grasped one of the greatest social challenges we have, namely that more people are falling out of work. If we look at the figures from 1980 to today, that is a clear trend. In difficult times, more people fall out of work. One thing is that more people become unemployed, but our big challenge is that more people also fall out of work permanently. If we go on and look at young people who are disabled, we see that there has been almost a doubling of young people aged between 18 and 24 from 1995 to today. Since 2008, the number of young social clients has also increased, and the increase continued after the previous financial crisis. This year, the share of health-related benefits is increasing strongly — if not strongly, so at least strongly — and is increasing more than the population trend would suggest. This means that while the Norwegian economy is still going quite well, the extraterritorial situation is increasing. This year's right-hand option is, as in the past, based on the line of work. The working line has been put together in Norwegian policy by the Right and the Workers' Party, and that is important. The working line is the premise of the Norwegian model, which we've been talking about. Work provides dignity and opportunities for participation, and work is the safest way to combat poverty. Some believe that poverty is best combated by giving more to everyone, but the root causes of poverty are not addressed by looking at economic benefits alone. It is about addiction, psychiatry, lack of integration, lack of education and lack of links with the labour market. This year's right-hand budget is a major effort on the very line of work. We want more activity and work training in the workplace itself, and we strengthen this field by half a billion dollars – compared to the government: 400 million fresh dollars. Or another way: Compared to the Right Budget, the government cuts 400 million. kr for work training for those who need it the most. Much of our efforts in this field today are being used for actions that first assess and then train people, so-called ‘train and place’. We want to look at a completely different approach and cultivate it much more. There's a lot of evidence that the chance of getting someone back to work is increasing if we place people quickly into work and then train and follow them up. It involves a very important change. At the same time, it is important to stress that this does not imply a reduction in the need for follow-up, rather on the contrary. The right-hand side is also going to be 50 million. extra on a new system of remuneration and dissemination to the labour market to reward both the employees and the employers who give people a new chance. Another important part of this year's Right bet is also a twist from passive schemes to work training. It is in that perspective that we need to see the transition from today's three to one year, while at the same time right-wing support for childcare and training. If you look at the previous conversion of the transitional aid, it just turns out that you've achieved what the Right wants to achieve. By following users closely — it does not just keep changing the system, you need to have close follow-up and work training — it also turns out that more people get into work. We know that being at work is one of the most important things we can do to prevent poverty in the long term. That SV is against this conversion is not surprising, because SV has been against all conversions of the transitional aid from 1996 until now. And they've warned the same arguments every time. Then there have been research reports, including: from the National Research Department, which shows that more people get into work and thus have a greater chance of getting out of poverty. Right rates of increased efforts for young social clients. We want the 'Turn in the door' principle to apply, not because we're going to show people away without giving them follow-up, but simply because the follow-up can't wait for two weeks, for two months or six months. At the moment you look up a Nav office as a young person, you will have the right and the duty of activity from the very first day. Right-wing rates are also strong and clear on the organisation of more people with needs for organisation in their working life. The committee colleague, Sylvi Graham, will explain this further in the debate. In many of these questions, I think the Workers' Party and the Right could stand together, precisely on the basis of the line of work, precisely on the basis of a line of work that is inclusive, that makes demands, but at the same time says that people also have obligations, not just rights. But it may be the government's problem what Abraham Lincoln once said, namely, "a house divided against it itself cannot stand." A government that is divided into the fundamental questions of the working line, does not become an offensive government. A government that is divided into completely fundamental both fundamental and practical questions about the relationship between duty and justice in a society will also become a government that is unable to implement good enough policies and that, in practice, can slowly but surely risk being involved in undermining the workline over the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e483	The representative of the Red Isaac says that the budget cannot be given to everyone. It's got to be. When you look at the Right Budget, they've added 250 million. kr into a so-called poverty package, but they have taken 1 billion. kr on an annual basis from the poorest families of children. When added together with tax policy, it shows a distribution policy that gives the most to the richest. I believe that the representative, Mr Isaksen, has been following very poorly in the political debate around, for example. the activation of those on transitional aid, where SV has made a very strong contribution to the change we are now doing, where after one year you will be obliged to engage in activity and to prepare for work. That is precisely what the government has proposed, but we want these lone carers to have income security while qualifying for employment. Why doesn't Right want that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e490	If I understand the representative Andersen correctly, it must mean that everyone who does not have transitional social assistance in Norway does not have income security. That really can't be right. So a little bit to the number usage. Firstly, the majority of the Right tax relief goes to them with lower and medium income. That is where the great promise of fiscal policy lies in the Right's budget. Secondly, Andersen's representative is noticing that we're also increasing, by re-prioritizing 100 million. NOK for work training within the framework, and then we use 400 million fresh kroner. Let's put in 400 million. extra for total work training. And then we have 250 million. in a poverty package of your own. So the question really should have gone back. If you were to base the Right Budget, the government thinks we need 400 million. kr less for work training for those who need it the most, the most. It cannot, then, be very sensible or particularly solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e499	I am recording that the representative, Røe Isaksen and Right, does not believe that it is an advantage for lonely caregivers who care for children to have a special and extra security of income in the first few years that they have become alone, in order to qualify for work. It has turned out to be a very successful system. Those who go through this system and at the same time qualify succeed to a far greater extent than others in getting into work. So this is a very good arrangement. That means that we give these families an extra security of income for some very vulnerable years. We stand for that, because we know that it works. As far as the distribution profile is concerned, otherwise in the alternative budget of the Right, it is such that the very largest tax havens go to the richest people in this country. For example, the tax rate that the Right will give to the richest man in Norway is equivalent to the transitional rate for 71 single mothers per year. I don't know why you criticize others for giving more to everyone, when the Right chooses to give so much money to the richest in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e506	I think it's going to be a little – what to say – unreasonable and very polar representation of what I'm counting on the representative refers to, namely the property tax reliefs, and later on as if there's a direct subsidy to the wallet of the richest. I think that's a reason why, for example. State Council Trond Giske, who is probably not exactly known to belong to the right wing of the Norwegian Labour Party, has called for a change in the tax on wealth. Then you can disagree if it should be done within the framework. There is no disagreement, or at least there are more and more, including LO leader Roar Flöthen, who agrees that the property tax is negative for Norwegian companies. There must also be someone who can accept all of these that we want to get back to work. I also think it is worth noting that the government says that we should introduce activity requirements to those receiving transitional benefits. The right is very clear that we're going to have one year of transitional benefits, but at the same time, the activity requirements imposed by the government are weaker than, for example. for the unemployed. In reality, it keeps being registered as a jobseeker at Nav. It creates more poverty in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e513	The representative, Røe Isaksen, said in his speech that a government that is divided into the view of the most fundamental questions is a government that cannot stand, and that it is a government that undermines our society. Then I would like to look at the possible future cooperation partners in the government, the Progress Party, and their views on absolutely fundamental things. We have now heard from the representative Eriksson's contributions here today that the Progress Party both wants and expects that they will change the pension reform if they come into government with the Right. We know that they have unsocial cuts in this budget, for example. the removal of the qualification programme, the reduction of various social security rights, and in other areas they have cut aid. The way in which the Progress Party creates alternative budgets is not only irresponsible and irresponsible, but it is contrary to all propriety. They also conduct irresponsible economic policies. How does the representative, Røe Isaken, view the views of the Progress Party on the fundamental issues? Is it that the Right shares these visions, or is it that the Right cannot go into government with the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e520	First of all, I don't think you should characterize either political friends or opponents by saying that they're against all decency. That, I think, is a pretty dry claim. It's not a secret that both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party disagree on a number of points, but we also agree very much. Among other things, we are in this year's budget, for example. agree to strengthen the training of workers, compared with the government budget. So, compared to what the right-hand side says, the government cuts 400 million. kr to those who need it the most. We are e.g. agree that there should be no sudden distortion of the financial system and that there should be uncertainty for many reintroduction companies because a small amount should be saved in the budget without having to properly determine it. We agree on a reinforced effort aimed at poor children, precisely because the pot that the government has this year, went empty before the year was over. Thus, both the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right have said very clearly that we want to step up our efforts against poverty. All that we agree on, and the rest I'm pretty sure we'll be able to agree on after the 2013 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e529	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e532	In Europe, unemployment is skyrocketing, and it is increasing. Country by country cuts brutally in common and well-being. At the same time, the number of persons employed in Norway has been high for many years, and it has also increased in the last year. Small differences and a strong public sector have contributed well to this. I want to warn the right-hand side against talking down Norway's economy and Norwegian labour market. Work is the main distribution mechanism for power and money we have. This is why the government’s work against social dumping and for permanent and secure employment is so important. This means that the security of society is growing, and that the security of the economy is also strong. It is precisely on this point that I believe that the differences in Norwegian policy for the time being are most evident. It is precisely because we have taken on board that there is such a serious situation in Europe and in the world that we are strengthening the work against social dumping, so that those who have the most unsafe jobs from before should not bear the greatest burden and take on the bill for the insecurity and the difficulties we have. The difference between government and right-hand side policies, including security of income, is that we focus more on security of income while qualifying, while the right-hand side clearly believes that one becomes more creative and tense if one is not sure to have a performance at the bottom. Today is the day of the cleaners. At the same time, we are informed that there is a very serious situation for cleaners and other employees in the hotel and restaurant industries. Many people who are employed in temporary employment agencies report that they are being pushed infinitely hard, that they have problems getting the wages they need, and getting the day to go up. It is worth noting that the right-wing parties do not want regional protection agencies for these employees, and that some of the right-wing parties also go against measures in the case of involuntary part-time — and that they have a policy where they want more temporaryity and temporary workers. There is a threat to the Norwegian model and to the cooperation that has made it possible for employee organisations to take a great deal of responsibility in difficult times for the Norwegian economy to go well. So there is a need for stronger action and no more debilitating measures. There has been some criticism of the measures and the conversion of the payment scheme. I notice that the parties that raise the strongest criticism of this today, seamen have very specific suggestions on how they want this conversion to happen, without the Brofoss committee being told about it. I think you can speak with one voice – either you think everything is going to be there, or you don't have to make as specific comments as you do with this budget. In the setting, we say that the qualification programme is a very important response to poverty, and that the government must follow up, so that everyone in the target programme receives an offer in line with the requirements of the law. I think that is one of the most important measures against poverty we can achieve. I would also like to point out the seriousness of the report by the Health Authority on social assistance in February. It underlines that municipalities have a responsibility to follow up all parts of the Law on Social Services in Nav, with particular attention to families with children. This report shows that this does not happen, and it must be followed up. It's no wonder people stay in poverty and social assistance when they don't get the help they need. The Committee has also said that the conversion of grants to disadvantaged organisations must depend on next year and that the government must engage in dialogue with these organisations in order to find a new system for allocating this money. We also stress very strongly that there are many attempts in the social field and in the follow-up of disadvantaged people. It is very important that the good experiences, which make people actually get out of a difficult life situation, are followed up and become common practice throughout the Nav, both in the municipal and state sections, and that this has consequences for how the agency will work with disadvantaged people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e559	The government parties state in their comments that the government continues the broad effort for better distribution and against poverty. The specific action plan on poverty continues in 2012. With the fact that 6,500 more children live in poverty, that we have got 10,144 more beneficiaries of social assistance in two years and with more young people at disadvantage, does SV believe that the government's poverty policy has been successful? And: Are you satisfied with this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e565	There will always be a greater need for action against poverty. That's what SV means. But when I look at the budget of the Progress Party, which removes even more of the benefit of the lonely caregivers and the poorest and most disadvantaged families in this country by over 1 billion. kr, at the same time as removing the qualifying aid, which means that approx. 8 000 ports of social assistance, the removal of the individual benefit, the removal of additional social benefits for older people who are unable to work, thus many tens of thousands of people would be entitled to social assistance with the Advance Party budget. That is why I am pleased that this government is ruling, and not a government with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e570	In Denmark, there has been a debate over the last few days about whether it pays to work. Interestingly, Andersen’s representative mentioned the cleaning day. Comparing with some low-income groups — the type of cleaner, SFO assistant and nursery assistant, it can be seen that the difference between being in the labour market and being out of the labour market can be negligible. Ozlem Cekic, a social-political spokeswoman for the Danish Socialist People's Party – SV's sister party – has been out taking self-criticism, among others. that the SF’s communication department found a poor case in which some 15 000 were paid in post-tax cash benefits and has now had to admit in retrospect that it cannot be called poor. There is no doubt that there are poor people in Norway, but at the same time it is very interesting with this debate on how much you should have when you are out of work, versus how much you have in your working life. Can we expect Andersen's representative to contribute to a similar debate in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e581	I'm just waiting for the Right's proposal to cut performances – because that must be what's the consequence of what's in the line that the Right now comes with. SV will not go in to cut benefits, because it will not lead to more people getting a job. I also noticed that the Right, when they have argued why they are against measures against social dumping, says that it is to prevent competition on wages. It's about the cleaners and the nursery assistant – which I've been sailing for 17 years – going down in pay to keep the job. That's why there's a much bigger difference in wages. That is what SV thinks is a bad proposal, because it increases the differences. It makes Norway a poorer country economically and also in terms of solving the problems in the future. The good distribution policy we have in Norway, both on wages and on benefits, that we do not live in different worlds, makes us in society have confidence and a much closer bond that makes us stand much stronger than you do in many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e588	I must say that I am a little surprised that so much can be put on the chest in terms of good distribution policy, the good fight against poverty. It is not new that the Christian People's Party and the SV agree on many proposals in the field of poverty reduction. But what I'm a little disappointed about, it's about doing something about the situation, and then you have to agree on the reality description, and as I see it, things have gone in the wrong direction. Looking at the three-year period 2004–06 and to this day, there have been 6,500 more poor children. There are over 70,000 poor children in Norway. I cannot avoid pointing to the leadership struggle in SV, where Heikki Holmås is clear that SV has not done enough, and that more needs to be done. The Christian People's Party has taken the initiative in a national effort, because we think we could do a lot more if we had worked together. Is there any hope that an initiative can soon be started, that more targeted measures can be put in place in order to do even more for the poorest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e599	Yes, there is a need to do more for the poorest in Norway. When I defend the distribution policy we have in Norway today, it is to the right that wants us to have greater differences and that removes some of the security network for the most disadvantaged, for example. single-parents who need a little more time to qualify and be able to stand up in the future. Then it is likely that one could also ask the representative of the Christian People's Party how in all the world they have intended to achieve a better distribution policy together with parties – large parties – who want a less equitable distribution policy. The alternative budgets that have been submitted are shown. We are open to discussing measures against poverty, especially child poverty, but then we cannot cooperate with parties that will take the income of the poorest families of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e606	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e609	The labour force is our sovereign most important resource for building a good society. That's why I think it's natural to start my article with what's most important, simply a solid business that creates values. The most important thing politicians can do is: We must conduct a responsible economic policy. That's what the government does. Europe today is under irresponsible policy combined with the single currency project of the elite – a project that was almost doomed to failure. We must have a working life in which the most likely person can participate on normal terms and conditions. This means that we need a strict work environment law, and we strengthen our efforts to follow it up, for example. through a strengthened supervisory system. We need to pursue policies to reduce social inequalities in health and living conditions that reduce absenteeism and social exclusion. The interaction reform to be implemented from 2012 aims to shift resource use from repair to prevention. It will give a more value-creating population. For the Central Party, it is important to clarify that a year's work carried out in the public sector is as important and as valuable as a year's work carried out in the private sector. It is also important to say that the public should take at least as much responsibility for a decent working life as the private sector. The crisis in Europe and the great need for labour pose some major challenges for us as a nation. Labour immigration is basically a good one, but Norwegian salaries and Norwegian playwrights are due in Norway. Labour immigration exerts pressure on Norwegian welfare schemes. The centre party therefore looks forward to the work of following up on the proposal of the Brochmann Committee. Many people need help to stay in the workplace or to get into work and activity. Nav is our most important traveler. I believe that even if something is good in Nav, there is still a great potential for improvement. Not least we need to make sure that Navs adding has a proper computer tool. I am therefore happy that the government has full pressure on this. At the same time, let me give some commendation to those added to Nav, who make an excellent effort, even though the etate gets a lot of criticism. The center party thinks it has to be reconsidered if Nav is enough in the local environment. I think it's a commitment to happiness in being a holistic and efficient management of work and welfare that the most decisions possible are with those who meet the users. This is important not least for industry. We must dare to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate that so many case handlers are invisibly located for users in Nav's management units. The government has changed today’s welfare system in many key areas: New age pension and the introduction of redundancy money, and now new disability benefits for treatment in the Stortinget – important reforms to help more people get into work and make it easier to combine work and social security. The centre party will point to a measure that we need to assess to make better use of, i.e. wage supplements. We believe that this will reduce the labour market threshold for many, and that it will also prevent people from falling out of work. We have to learn from the Danish model, which proved to be so beneficial to both employees and employers that the scheme is not resilient. It must be a clear commitment that normal addition should be the general rule in working life. We are dealing with the budget in a situation where we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. We may be proud of that, but at the same time, we have to be humble about the challenges that will come. I'm glad the government is so busy with just this. We have the experience from 2008 and 2009 to build on. Even then, uncertainty was great when the draft budget was presented, and rapidly exacerbated afterwards. In retrospect, we know that the government reacted quickly and adequately, so that the downturn was less than in most other countries. Our government and our political system passed the test with brilliance. I understand that a lot of people are now on guard, and that the media is using space on all the danger signals. That's good. I am pleased that the government keeps calm and awaits the situation, and that she has close contact with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e640	One of the most important tasks is to ensure a sustainable welfare society and take care of those outside. It requires that we have a responsible economic policy, a policy that is adapted to business and that can secure jobs, and thus has a general idea for the labour market. It means an increasing awareness of what is happening in Europe, and a certainty that Norway is able to face a possible future crisis. We have low unemployment in Norway. That's good. At the same time, many people fall outside. There are 217 000 people registered with reduced working capacity. There is a significant number of people who are currently in social security. Some of them are going out of work, but many of them want to come back to work. That means that an even greater effort is required of us to help these people back. In general, the hub is an important tool for getting these people to clear up early and get them on the course or get them back to work. Nav himself says that if there is no increase in the number of places of action, more people, despite the government's objectives, will end up in disability. Therefore, the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget increases the number of action sites by 5,000 for those with reduced working capacity. I record that the Workers' Party believes that today's level is the right level – there are up to 54,000 action places for next year, while changing the payment scheme without impact assessment. I don't think that's right. I think we need more action places, and I think we need more predictability for a change in the payment scheme. That is why the Christian People's Party is opposed to it and believes that it should be more thoroughly investigated before coming back to the revised national budget for 2012. Work is also the way out of poverty. Being able to help people take care of their jobs or come back to work also means fighting poverty. They must be able to work. It means bets on booze, it means bets on psychiatry, and it also means training to help them get back. Because the fight against poverty is far from over. While most of us can go to Christmas with lots of food, gifts, family and fun, there are unfortunately many that fall outside. Today it is approx. 70,000 children living in permanent poverty. That's 6,500 more than it was in 2004–2006. That is why I react when I read the setting and hear posts where the government parties turn their breasts and boast of the policy being pursued. For the number is clear: there will be more poor, not fewer. That is why the Christian People's Party casts ca. One and a half billion. extra on targeted poverty measures in our alternative budget. We have our own package: transition from social security to work, where we focus on precisely labour market measures halving the employer's pay for apprentices an active industrial policy to ensure that more people can return to work We also have a targeted poverty policy, where we eliminate the excesses of some dental and health services for the poorest, and social inclusion measures directed by non-governmental organisations, and we follow up the advice given by Nav to the government to just increase social assistance rates, in order to prevent people from living so much in poverty that they do not have time, opportunity and resources to think about their own situation. In addition, we also have needs-tested kindergarten rates, which should make it cheaper for those with the lowest income. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the changes in transitional social welfare. We do not want to impose an activity requirement for transitional benefits already when the youngest child is one year old. This is because it deprives the lone-parent of freedom of choice. Not everyone automatically has a kindergarten when the child is one year old – they may get it in the middle of the year. In any case, it deprives these people of freedom of choice and predictability. Today, December 5, is the UN Day of Volunteering. When the debate rages over what is the Norwegian model, or what characterises the Norwegian welfare society, I would say that a strong non-profit sector, the voluntary sector, is one of the most characteristic features of Norway. That is why I am grateful for all the volunteers, who are making a great effort to include more people and solve important Community tasks. Therefore, the government should also be willing to use these organisations more. When you're talking about work inclusion, it's just getting people out of it, for example. While one of the most important jobs is running, and when we see that the ideal institutions that want and have the opportunity to receive more patients are not being used today, it is a wrong policy. The government should be more committed to volunteering, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e672	I record that the cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in Kristiansand is cracking in every direction, and the Christian People's Party has great challenges in Agder, where they are swapping joint-stocking policies with increased cash support and criminal systems for the sick, who are to be paid in case of absence. We don't need less, but more labour to maintain well-being at today's level. Christian People's Party cuts in sick pay and has incentives that lead to more people being left out of work. Traditionally, this policy affects women, sick and immigrants in terms of poorer career opportunities, lower wages and more people staying out of work. Does the representative of Ropstad think that wage cuts in sick leave are solidarity and inclusive, and how will this lead to chronically ill people entering the labour market? And who thinks Ropstad should bear the welfare of the future, especially for the weak groups, when more people are going to be home for longer in a time when private and public welfare is screaming for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e679	There were many questions here, and I have to admit that that was not all I understood, especially when it was sick money, but we can probably come back to that later. But with regard to family policy in general, which I at least record as the representative of Henriksen, the Christian People's Party is clear: we want to give priority to the families first, and that means, for example, that. in the case of transitional benefits, we oppose changes in activity requirements already when the child is one year old, because that in reality means that if you are alone, you have nothing to do but send your child to kindergarten when it is one year old. I don't think it's right that all children are equal, so you can sit here and order someone into the nursery. But I am concerned that parents are going to get into work, and therefore the limit today is three years. In the case of cash support in Kristiansand, I am proud that the Christian People's Party in Kristiansand has managed to get through local cash support. That, I think, contributes to increased freedom of choice and secure families, and stable families and a safe growth are one of the most important bases for talking about social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e687	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the disadvantaged families of children – I am convinced of that. But I'm a little surprised that they don't have any critical comments about their collaborators, who are removing the entire scheme, and also that they are opposed to the need for activities for families with lone dependants. If we look at the statistics from last year, when it comes to recipients of younger children aged one year or older, it was 74 pst. in activity in the form of education or work at the end of the first half of 2011. Of the active subjects, 71 were pst. in work and 29 pst. in education. Does the representative think this is wrong? Does he not see that this is a way that helps these families of children actually get out of poverty, that they may need to spend some time getting education and qualification, and that therefore it may be very wise that they start early and get a security for qualified work in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e692	I could definitely have been with and written notes that are critical of those who want to cut in the transitional aid, because I think, like the representative Karin Andersen, that it is important. But what this bottoms in is the same in terms of transitional benefits as in terms of cash support. SV believes that the kids should be in kindergarten when they are one year old. I want the families to decide for themselves. To set activity requirements already when the children are one year old means that you really do not have the freedom to be at home with the child if you want to. What I think is interesting is that when you also remove the cash support for the two-year-olds, it is probably approx. 14 000 who lose it, while adding up to build only 10-20 pst. of the number in kindergartens, which in reality means that there are even more people who lose the 40,000 a year of cash support. I believe that the SV's proposal to remove the cash support will only lead to even more poor people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e697	Now the representative Ropstad has probably listened to the representative Eriksson’s hopes of finding a pension settlement after a possible election victory for the bourgeois parties in 2013. Now it is not even certain that the Progress Party will participate in such conversations. But if that happens, I want to hear what hopes the Christian People's Party has in that way. Or ask in a slightly different way: what does the Christian People's Party really think about the Progress Party's approach to the pension challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e702	It's no secret that the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Advance Party in terms of retirement, and so I can safely say that I think it's an irresponsible approach to retirement. Because if you are to have a sustainable system that also guarantees future generations' pensions, we had to make changes. We have made good changes, which I think will lead to a more sustainable pension reform, or pension system, while also giving each employee good incentives to be able to stand longer in work. With regard to the policy of the Progress Party in general, there are things that the Christian People's Party disagrees with, just as it is with the Red-Greens. That's why the Christian People's Party is going to have a good process in its own party, where members, locals, states, and everyone is going to be heard, and we're going to have a thorough round. I don't want to go into the discussion right now, but what I also notice in the budget is that the Progress Party and the Right are also involved in important poverty initiatives, and I see that the Progress Party is lifting up, for example. The car service and, in particular, the car service dogs are the ones that are the most clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e709	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e712	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Labour and Social Committee. So we have not had the opportunity to promote the positions of the left in the setting we are currently dealing with. We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the government parties' proposals for concrete budgetary decisions as a result of our proposal for an alternative state budget under Framework 7 in the context of Stortingen's treatment of the financial situation. However, we have some framework-independent proposals that have been promoted in the Chamber today, and we also support some of the minority proposals that have been promoted in the vote. The left is concerned with three important issues regarding the policy and budgetary area we are discussing today. The first and most important thing is to get more people to work and get more people to do more work. The second is a targeted fight against poverty, especially in the case of children living in poverty. The third is to re-prioritise the whole welfare area so that good welfare schemes are ensured for the future. If we are to be able to do something really with these policy areas, we must give priority. Or we can do as the government, to continue everything that before and hope that evolution will go in the right direction almost by itself. It is a dangerous strategy, and there is little or nothing to suggest that it is sustainable or effective. The main priority of the left in our alternative state budget is more jobs to increase employment. We need a more flexible working life. Left re-prioritizes close to 9 billion. kr in a large-scale effort to meet tomorrow's challenges of investing in innovation and participation. Both in terms of the short-term challenges of economic turmoil in the countries around us and in terms of the long-term challenges of an ageing population, this is a proper and necessary strategy. The left actively uses the tax system to promote work and to develop, operate and own Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian businesses. The left also proposes a series of targeted actions on the expenditure side of the State budget, both to facilitate the start-up and business of enterprises, to get more of those outside, into the ordinary working life, and to get people to work longer in line with the intentions of the pension reform. In the view of the Left, this is a crucial commitment for the future. Our public well-being depends entirely on the value creation of private businesses and on the initiative of individuals to bet, take risks and turn ideas into action. For the left, it's about putting those who dare, those who bet and take a risk, first, and the consideration of the system, the rule-riding and also the trade movement in the second row. Therefore, the Left is particularly concerned with the conditions of the self-employed, where a main effort is to improve social arrangements. A good industrial policy is one pillar to ensure future well-being; the other is to get more of those who today fall out of the labour market into work. We are totally dependent on the fact that more people choose to work longer, and that we succeed in including far more people in the world of work. Today almost 600,000 people, or 20 pst. of all persons in working-age, some social security benefit instead of being at work. The majority budget hardly means that there will be fewer poor children in Norway. Under this government, there have been 6,500 more children living in poverty – this with a government that would eliminate poverty with great pathos. At best, there are a few attempts to patch up the situation, while the measures that work — and as proposed by the Left in its alternative budget — are totally absent. The left suggests, among others: to spend 760 million. kr to increase the indicative social assistance rates by 20 pst. This means, for example: NOK 1 600 more per month for a single social welfare beneficiary with one child. It shall not be strange to understand what it will entail in terms of changing everyday life for those concerned. It's really putting people first. I register that SVs Karin Andersen sent out a press release last week where she fully agreed with this policy. Nevertheless, SV is in favour of the Left's proposal for a tightening-up plan of social assistance rates. It is not surprising that SV says one thing and does another, but it does not help those who live in poverty, and who believed in SV's promises before the election. I warn you that the Left votes in favour of minority proposals No. 2–6 and 10 in the vote, and finalises the proposals No. 18-23, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e735	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e740	There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that we need to keep the economy and order in our own house in order to keep unemployment low. Uncertainty in Europe is significant. There are obviously different ways for the parties to get their budgets to go together. If you look at the alternative budget of the Left, that is to say, you will get a reduced daily allowance of approx. 540 million. kr. Is it the case that the representative Elvesuen and the Left have a different insight into the development of the European and American economy, or is it a general declaration of trust in the ability of the red-green government to create jobs and to keep unemployment low that underlies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e747	It is a belief that the alternative budget of the Left would lead to more jobs. It is a budget that is more oriented towards private business and small and medium-sized enterprises. We also have points in our alternative budget where we spend more money on more teachers, including teachers. We have added up to 2,000 more places of study. So this is an assessment we're doing, and a consequence of our own budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e752	I am pleased to record that the Left now agrees with SV that we need higher, and fixed, social assistance rates. But if you're going to get it done, you have to get a majority for it. SV promoted this when the Left put in government, but the Left was very opposed to such an arrangement. I'm recording that they've changed it, and that's good. And then we're going to keep working for it. But I also see that what the Left proposes in its budget is to introduce the Swedish model with prescribed sick pay periods for various diseases. In Sweden, there is a huge debate about this, and there have been countless examples of people who have been forced to take a so-called fictional job, i.e. you have to take any thoughtful job. If you could expect to have the job, but cannot go into it, nor can you go back to your regular work – actually to no real work the Swedish scheme. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e757	What is our proposal is that we have to have the Swedish model with standard health care periods, i.e. more standardised rules for the type of disease – such as a help to the doctors. Then it's true that we also have a suggestion that you cut the sick pay period from twelve to eleven months. It just hits about 3 pst. of those who have been diagnosed. And when you've been sick for 11 months, it's about having to switch to other schemes and not stay in that disease situation. So it's true that we need to do something about the expenses of sick pay. I think that's a common perception of all parties. These are small measures, which will lead to some degree of tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e767	I allow myself to follow up on the question put by the representative Karin Andersen concerning proposal No. 21, where the government is asked to introduce norms of health care periods according to the Swedish model. My question is this: Does it really matter to the Left that this is actually breaking into the agreement on inclusive working that is concluded between the social partners and that is actually a rather poor agreement, but just in full one of the most important agreements we have in Norwegian working life? In short, does it matter to the Left that this is the case, and that there is a breach of an agreement between the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e776	We need to reduce the cost of the sickness pay scheme. The introduction of a system of standard health care periods is also, in this way, a support to doctors in assessing the length of the sick leave period for each employee in a situation where one is ill. I believe this is a targeted measure that may support the doctors in their work. This can lead to getting a simpler system; a system where you can actually bring down some of the expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e781	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e784	Last week I was in Brussels and had conversations with key actors in the EU, and these drew a dark picture of Europe. The economic and financial situation in the European Union is very serious. Unemployment is increasing in many EU countries, especially among young people. It is difficult to imagine a quick way out of the misery that many countries have come into. Compared to Europe, Norway is a quiet island in an uprising sea. Despite the repeated criticism of the opposition, the good situation in Norway shows that the government is pursuing a sensible policy on employment and business. The Norwegian model, by which we are the foremost defenders, stands well in a turbulent time. In contrast to many other countries, the labour market in Norway has improved so far in 2011. The number of persons employed has increased by 18 000 between June and September this year, and by a total of 50 000 in the last year. However, the clear improvement we saw in the first six months has lost some of its power after the summer. Unemployment has remained fairly stable over the autumn. The labour market in Norway will be unduly affected by the international economic cycle. However, we are well equipped to face a more difficult situation in the labour market. We have room for action in economic policy. The Government's active labour market policy could be adapted to changing needs. One main goal of the government is to get more in work and activity. The Government will maintain a high number of action sites in 2012. The allocation of labour market measures provides about 71 200 places on average in 2012, of which 17 000 are available for the unemployed and 54 200 are available for the disabled. We propose to increase the level of intervention for people with disabilities by about 1000 places. The system of fixed-term wage subsidies is proposed to continue in 2012. I note that the opposition has proposed increases in labour market measures, but I doubt whether this will make the big difference in employment and in the labour market opportunities for the unemployed, when we look at the other things they propose in the budget. In order to have better information on the effectiveness of the follow-up and the clearance of the unemployed, the government will launch an experiment in which the Labour and Welfare Act more effectively implements self-reliance and follow-up services as an alternative to the purchase of such services in the form of actions by external suppliers. In Soria Moria II, the government announced its own job strategy for people with disabilities. With the recently submitted job strategy, the government is proposing a cap to get more jobs and fewer benefits. The main target group for 2012 is persons under 30 years of age with disabilities, who are in the transition between education and work. We have brought with us the social partners and disabled people's organisations in this effort. Never before has it been so focused on this group. The job strategy is a long-term and targeted strategy. Of the overall level of action, about 500 places will be used for the main target group of the job strategy. The organisation and follow-up offer is strengthened through its own trials and by the extended use of organisation guarantees with a permanent contact person in the Working and Welfare Session. Overall, the Labour and Welfare Act is strengthened by 40 new posts for this strategy. The Government proposes to extend the scheme of Group 2 cars to children and young people with very limited walking functions. This will facilitate the everyday life of the families covered. I am pleased that a joint committee supports this proposal. I have also announced a review of the car welfare system. The State of Labour and Welfare is one of the next year’s budget winners. We're proposing to allocate 220 million. to launch the programme for the essential modernisation of ICT in the establishment. The modernisation programme is a forward-looking and important initiative, which will also provide better services and shorter process times for users and partners. Furthermore, it is proposed to strengthen the operational allocation of the Working and Welfare Seat by about 300 million in real terms. kr compared to the 2011 balanced budget. This strengthens, for example: to ensure that the increased ICT operational costs do not affect the capacity and quality of the service provided to users. Increased ICT operational allocation is necessary to ensure good management and continued stable operation of current ICT systems in the establishment. The Government proposes to reverse the extensions to the day-to-day and permit legislation introduced in the context of the financial turmoil. The improved situation on the labour market throughout the year suggests that there is no need to maintain the extension of the day-to-day pay and leave-on legislation. On the other hand, if the labour market situation should change, the government is ready to reintroduce the necessary measures. The government's labour and welfare policy has as its primary objective the participation of more people in the labour market. This applies, inter alia, to: a new and strengthened IA agreement, the introduction of work performance assessments and activity plan, redundancy payments, temporary pay tests and the qualification programme. Efforts in this area help to ensure a continuing high level of employment in Norway compared to the vast majority of other countries. A working life with room for all assumes that working conditions and the working environment contribute to the health and working capacity of individuals throughout their working lives. As can be seen from the Employment Communication, most people work under very good conditions in Norway. Unfortunately, there are some industries, such as the United Kingdom. the cleaning industry, characterised by many unprofessional activities and social dumping. The father is that this can spread and undermine the good work life we know in Norway. It is also the backbone of our strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate in recent years. As a follow-up, we have proposed strengthening the Labour Inspectorate by 20 million. kr in 2012 to put in place an authorisation scheme and closer follow-up of clean-up holdings. The government has also proposed a further 10 million. to the Labour Inspectorate, which was adopted in connection with the revised national budget this year, for a closer follow-up to the manpower industry. Our joint efforts against social dumping can not only be made through the Labour Inspectorate, but also the police, the Tax Agency, the Food Authority and the regional protection agencies are important in the fight against social dumping. We need a well-organised working life with strong trade unions and an organised employers' side to meet the challenges of unprofessional businesses. Therefore, it is completely wrong when the opposition will weaken the role of trade union movement, among other things. by proposing a cut in the trade-union deduction. In my opinion, opposition policy will distort a fine balance in Norwegian society in at least two areas. In the field of working life, the Right and Advance Party want to give more power to employers at the expense of employees. We want a work environment law with good job protection and sound working time regulations. They will weaken these provisions and open up more temporary employment. In tax and distribution policy, the Right and the Advance Party want to give tax cuts to those with the highest income and the highest wealth. Your distribution profile is not good. The budgetary options of the two largest opposition parties also bear the mark of unrealistic cuts and additions designed to create enthusiasm rather than to meet realistic needs. The party's cut-off in cash, sick pay, additional social benefits for people over 67 years of age and disability is both unrealistic and unsocial. The pension reform came into force on 1 January 2011, and it provides good incentives for people to stay longer in work. Over time, this could lead to increased professional activity after 62 years of age. At the same time, the individual can choose when to take out an old age pension and how much. In 2011, many people have taken out early retirement. At the same time, about six out of ten are still in work. The rules for withdrawing old-age pensions are neutral; early retirement provides lower annual pensions in the future. The cost of public health over time is therefore slightly influenced by the withdrawal of the pension before or after 67 years. The international outlook is becoming increasingly uncertain. To meet this uncertain future, it is good that we have provided a budget for 2012 to help keep employment up and low unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e823	During the financial debate, the Prime Minister was quite clear that, in view of the turmoil in Europe, increased unemployment could be expected in Norway. In particular, we have registered this with regard to the export industries, which are struggling with a mission, and which report that their order books are becoming empty. They're in a situation where they're afraid they have to start permitting. This means that a lot of employees in the companies today are going around wondering whether they have a job after Christmas or not, or whether they are going out on leave. Why will the government change the regulations on leave when it is acknowledged that this situation can occur, but the government budget still chooses to retain figures and information more than six months old, instead of taking over the new information that you have here? Why do we not want to maintain today's legislation on leave, which will also lead to lower leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e828	So the last numbers we got from Nav show that the unemployment rate in Norway is still falling, but it's falling less now than before this year. That's the starting point. Then we have had measures that were taken during a period of high unemployment in Norway. What we're concerned about is that we need a good room for action to implement the right measures at the right time, and when necessary. It showed this government that it did very well in the last financial crisis. That is why we believe that the measures that were specifically introduced in a period of very high unemployment are right to be reduced now. But we are quite clear that if this positive development that we now have turns – and there are many danger signals; I fully agree with the representative Eriksson – we will make a total assessment and come back to the need to have these measures on the table again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e833	Mr Eriksson wished to speak on a point of order. 2...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e836	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e841	...and he'll get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e844	Then I want to ask a question about another topic, namely Nav. It is still the case that we experience many enquiries – at least the undersigned – from users who believe that Nav is not working properly, that it is still difficult to reach the case handler, that it takes a long time before the cases are resolved. I also register now that the municipalities have problems in getting the sick pay refunded – i.e.. they are paid the sick pay, but it takes longer now for them to have it refunded, than it did before. In view of the fact that the processing time does not go down as much as we want – users experience the same problems as they have been doing all along – the government has also previously announced that they want to assess a Nav Ombudsman. It was already said in 2009 that it is stated in the Soria Moria II Declaration. Nothing has happened so far. So my question is, when will the government be fully evaluated on that question? It's taken two years. How far have we come in the assessment, and when can we expect to get a case from the government in view of that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e854	It's true, as Eriksson's representative says, that things actually go a lot better in Nav. It's not going as well as we would like – they still have a way to go – but as the representative says, it's going better. Then, in the Soria Moria Declaration, to which the representative also refers, we have said that we need to assess a welfare agency. I have spent time on this matter, because I am concerned about seeing the legal security of the Nav users as a whole, not just related to the issue of representative or not. This is actually a quite big and complex matter, among other things. because one of the challenges we face in the years to come is to have high and good competence and to have the right resources in the right places. So one of the assessments I have to make about this is about having, for example, Several types of ombudsmen around Norway will make good use of the resources, or whether we are going to have a system where Nav himself can do more of that job, so that they can learn well from the mistakes they make. I will soon come back – I have said that – also to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e863	The President has received two requests for reply from the Right. One line is given to the right. If the President has understood correctly, it is the representative of Sylvi Graham who is to have that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e866	You can always hope to have two lines. The Councils of State, and the Right, believe that the working line is important. Dropping out of work is primarily a problem for individuals. We know that work and quality of life are closely linked, and we also know that work contributes to joint and active participation. Lack of social links is the main cause of the new poverty we see in Norway today and of the lack of inclusion of immigrants. In addition, if we are to defend today's welfare society, it is absolutely central that anyone who can, is involved and contributes. I'm glad that the Right Party and the Workers' Party stand together through the line of work, even though we sometimes wonder a little. But the Labour Party is one thing, and the government may be something else. We found out in the NRK on 28 November that the representative Andersen from government partner SV said the government was “greedy” because you would not increase the social assistance rates. What does the Council of State think about politicians representing the line of work being characterised as greedy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e875	The government has been very clear that we want a social welfare system as we do now. What's important to me is that these are indicative rates, and it thus allows for individual adjustments in the municipalities. It's very important. We know that on average, the payments are also slightly above the indicative rates. But precisely because we are concerned that social assistance should not be a long-term benefit – social assistance is a short period of time – there should be indicative rates. Then we can always discuss whether those rates are shy or not, and I record that members of the government parties think they should be more shy. Many people may also suggest that some municipalities should be more shy. We've seen examples of municipalities that have been far below what they should. That is why the government has also put in place a system of supervision. It has now worked for two years, and it's important that we follow it up, because it just shows that some municipalities need that kind of supervision. There I fully agree with Andersen's representative that we have to make sure that the municipalities actually meet the requirement of the law regarding social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e882	One reported that Prime Minister Stoltenberg and then LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla went on tours around Sognsvatten, and in that way they got a good deal of leverage for some important measures for LO. In recent times, I have recorded that Nav – which is in a way if not LO for the Minister of Labour, so at least a good friend for her, I suppose, Nav is very important for the Minister of Labour – has come up with some advice. One is, for example: that, if one does not increase the level of action, there will be more dissatisfied. I think that's quite a relevant advice. The second is that in order to increase the number of people out of poverty, there is a need to increase social assistance rates. Because if they're still as shy as they are today, it's the poverty in general — the fact that some people are in such a difficult situation — that keeps you out of work, and not the social aid rates in themselves. So my question is really: couldn't the Minister of Labour have intended to start traveling with the Nav leader, or at least start listening to the advice from Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e889	I can assure you that I have close and close contact with Nav and the Nav management – that is part of my job – but we do not always agree for that reason. We work together to make Nav better. Then I believe that the government has a good level of action. I want to quote Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on the aid debate – today he has a very good article in the newspaper: ‘It turns into a debate about how much we spend, not what we get out.’ It could also have been used in the action debate and not just in the aid debate. As the representative understands, I had expected him to ask me that question. The point is at least that we have a high level, I mean, and then I'm very concerned that we also have to do other things than just generally increase that level. One of the things we're doing in the budget now is for example. to add 40 million. NOK so that you can try out the fact that Nav is even more involved in this type of job placement. It is also an important principle in the job strategy. I think that's important, that's what's the way to go in addition to having a high level of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e903	The government has a strong care for the social rights of its workers. However, it does not appear that there is equal care for the social rights of self-employed workers. The left has asked for it many times, including with the Prime Minister. Among other things, we have a quote from the Prime Minister here, where he answers: "Well, we've made some improvements, we're looking at whether we're going to make further improvements." The left is concerned that when you say "look at" something, it disappears quickly in a drawer, but we may be wrong. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How is this assessment going? When can we possibly expect improvements? And do the self-employed have to finance this for themselves this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e913	First of all, I would just like to stress that there is no contradiction between being concerned with the well-being of the employees and being concerned with business interests. As you can see in the budget, there is no new impetus in it. So I can just say the same thing that the prime minister so rightly said, that we should look at this. But as the representative himself says, it is in that we have not taken any new action in this budget. So the representative gets to wait and see what's coming during the year and next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e918	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e921	Work to improve the situation of people with disabilities is part of the government's overall work to combat discrimination and promote gender equality. The starting point is the government's political platform, where it is established that we want to combat all forms of discrimination and that we want to work towards equal treatment. All shall have the ability to exploit their abilities and to live a good life regardless of sex, social background, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic background or functionality. Our government has set itself high targets in this area. Discrimination legislation has been reinforced and a set of action plans has been developed with different types of action to systematically promote these objectives. The work takes account of the fact that discrimination also takes place across grounds of discrimination. Persons with disabilities also have sex, have different ethnic backgrounds and sexual orientation, and all of this may have an impact on the way in which discrimination affects species. In the case of persons with disabilities, discrimination may result from several factors. We want to work to combat discrimination and promote equality whether this is due to physical barriers, attitudes or lack of assistance to those who need practical assistance to function in society. In this context, I would like to highlight two areas on which we are committed in the policy for people with disabilities. The first is the policy for people with developmental disabilities. Last year I presented the information and development programme People with development barriers should not be discriminated against either! It was created in cooperation with several departments, the organisations of people with developmental disabilities and their relatives and other relevant organisations. The programme has helped to raise awareness of the objectives of development-removal policy, debate on its implementation and a new focus on the rights of people with development-removal rights in our country, in our municipalities. I am therefore pleased that, in a unanimous vote on 15 November, the Health and Welfare Committee underlines that the objectives of the responsibilities reform are set. The Committee shall also act unanimously in order to: ‘an overall investigation must be carried out assessing the results of the 1991 responsibilities reform and the living conditions of users and relatives and assessing, in the light of this, measures to improve the living conditions of this group’. The size will deal with that setting tomorrow, but I can already assure you here that in my department we will do everything we can to ensure that the investigation work will help people with developmental disabilities get the good living conditions that they were proposed through the reform. While the investigation is ongoing, we do not have to add to the work we are doing. The information and development programme continues to apply. It concerns, inter alia: self-determination and user influence, housing, school, work and leisure. The planned measures will be implemented. The other area I want to highlight is universal design. Here too, the government has set ambitious targets. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Universal Design Action Plan, and I agree that further work should be done on rules on deadlines for universal design of existing categories of construction. As the Committee also points out, the Law on Planning and Buildings provides for such regulations. I am aware that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on this, and that, among other things, have been analysed on the cost of universal design of different building categories and deadlines. Employers' obligation to work actively in order to promote equality in the workplace is one of the main tools we have in our work to ensure that more disabled persons can be included in the labour market. Both the Discrimination Law Committee and the Equality Committee have made proposals to strengthen the obligation of activity and to monitor compliance with the obligation. These proposals are now being considered in the context of the work on new legislation on discrimination. We're aiming to promote a billing proposition before this accumulation period is over. In the government's draft budget, the subsidy to disabled people's organisations increased by 5 million. I am pleased that the Committee supports this. The total grant in 2012 thus amounts to 166.4 million. kr. To the Committee's comments, I would like to say that the grant scheme is now being evaluated. This means that the ability of youth organisations to apply for support on an independent basis will also be assessed. Finally, I understand that both the Committee and the organisations of disabled people are impatient after Norway ratifys the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The formal obstacle to this will be eliminated by the entry into force of the new Law on Civil Protection, which will set the government up to take place on 1 July 2013. The decision to promote a proposition must be seen in conjunction with it. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for promoting the case for Stortinget. I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e966	The organisation work is a work where, as the Committee's comments show, there is quite a broad political consensus on what you want to do. But then the challenge is to follow up beautiful words with appropriations and money. An important scheme is what is called user-driven personal assistant, which is today a municipal responsibility, with the consequence that there are very large differences between municipalities and municipalities. Some municipalities have very good arrangements, others have very bad arrangements. At the same time, there's a system that illustrates very well that someone needs a little bit more to get the same amount. The work on making it a national right-holder scheme was started during the Bondevik II administration. It has – as far as I can register – so far very little happened during this government. Does the Council of State agree that user-led personal assistant is a good arrangement, that it should be a right? And if so, what will the government do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e975	I agree that the user-controlled personal assistant is a good arrangement. It's a system that has given many more freedom over their own lives, their own lives, that helps prevent and build down just some of these barriers that we're talking about, and that makes it easier to work in everyday life and participate in society. As the representative is familiar with, this is a discussion that has been up several times during the last period. The Minister of Health and Health is responsible for that process, and she will certainly come back to Stortinget with her views on this and her starting point for further work on that matter. But there is no disagreement between any parties in this room, I think, that user-driven personal assistant is a good arrangement, and that we want as many as possible to have access to that type of solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e980	I also urge myself to challenge the Council of State, as he is also Minister for Children and Gender Equality, in terms of a problem that many people experience in the context of maternity leave. Let's take a couple with a little child, where mother has maternity leave for nine months and goes out to work, while father is on re-schooling through Nav and lacks a few months to finish re-schooling. He/she must then, if he/she is to enter maternity leave, cancel re-schooling and re-take the entire last year in one year, otherwise he/she will lose the right to maternity leave. In that case, it means that mother has to wait to return to work and take unpaid maternity leave for several months to make it work. Does the Council of State think that today's legislation in this area is very squirming and unwieldy, and is it not useful to get people out of work more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e987	I also know the single thing from the media, but nothing more than that, so it's hard to go into that particular example. However, we have a number of examples of the need for simplification of Nav’s legislation and practice on parental leave. That is why I have started a review of the legislation to see what we can do to simplify procedures around this. It takes a lot of resources at Nav. We also see examples of this, among other things. have been fathers who have lost leave because they have applied too late; there have been uncertainties about the information piece. All of this I am in close dialogue with Nav about getting better solutions, as well as looking at the legislation itself. It is also important, I think, to point out that the scheme is flexible; it is possible to take long-term leave – up to three years. So it's also possible for some parents to solve some of the problems that come up in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e994	I want to go back to what the Council of State concluded with, namely the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As the rapporteur for that chapter, I can reveal that the text that is standing there has not been invented this year; it has been there for several years. If I'm going to be honest, it's a little frustrating that it's taken a very long time. It was signed four and a half years ago, and over a hundred countries have ratified it. I understand – and have heard in repeated debates – that we must wait for the Code of Civil Protection. But at the same time, people with disabilities lose the legal certainty that the Convention provides today, and – perhaps not least – the signal it gives that Norway does not go ahead and ratify and can contribute. Then one at the same time sees that other countries, such as the United States. Sweden and Denmark, have already ratified it before it is already in place nationally. Why is it necessary – if I have heard correctly – to wait until 1 July 2013 before we can ratify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1002	Norway was one of the perpetrators of this convention. It is therefore important to stress that when we have not yet ratified it, it is not because the government has not intended to comply with it to the point and the dot, but precisely because we intend to comply with it to the point and the dot. It has been Norwegian practice to ratify conventions when we see that we can comply with them. In this respect, the law on the courts has been what has remained for us. I think it is important to take care of the role Norway should have as a driver in complying with UN conventions. This has now been ratified by many countries — but with a law that is far behind us. That's why this is basically a good principle. I also wish that we could ratify this as soon as possible. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs who will have to assess when possible, and they will certainly answer the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1014	SV has previously stated that the agency directive will undermine the fight against temporary employment. In view of the fact that the Swedish Government's partner, the Workers' Party, is in favour of the temporary agency directive, that it can also help to strengthen the rights of temporary workers, my question is: What does the Council of State really mean about the temporary agency directive? Is this a strengthening of the rights of temporary staff, or is it an evil that one would reluctantly be able to participate in?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1019	My personal view of the temporary agency directive is no secret, it goes, among other things. by several newspapers today. On this pulpit, there's not personal views I represent, but a government that hasn't finished dealing with it yet. It is not uncommon for government parties to have different views on these matters. SV argues for its view, the Workers' Party has taken its group decision, and the government will deal with the matter. Having said that, I believe this concerns one of the most important issues in Norwegian policy, namely how to avoid a two-way division of labour, with more timeliness. This will mean a sharp increase in differences in Norway. I record that the Left now is the party that goes the longest in attacking the trade union movement and in raising the issue of more temporaryity and thus greater differences and more poverty in the Norwegian society. That the Left chooses to place itself so far out on the right on such important issues is a development in Norwegian policy that I think is both interesting and sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1026	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1029	July 22 left a crater in our nation, in the heart of our nation – in the heart of each and every one of us and especially of those who were the direct target of terror. The model of the welfare state has shown its sustainability in this extreme situation. Our services made a great effort during the crisis management and afterwards, and police, doctors and nurses, military, teachers, members of non-governmental organisations and people near the terror did an important job. Departments have made considerable efforts in the future. In borrowed offices and in difficult conditions, employees have made sure to keep Norway’s many wheels running. I would like to take this opportunity to extend a great deal of thanks to the managers and staff of the departments. Their efforts have contributed to safety and predictability in Norway since 22 July. The wheels started quickly – it's well-being. So I would like to thank the young people, the young people – and especially the AUFs who were on the island – who have contributed to the development of the nation's cultural capital. The young people's responses to terrorism, their wise stories and openness have given the nation a welfare capital that cannot be measured in money. They have called for reflection, they have taken the perspective of others into their reasonings, they have shown differences and inequalities, but above all they have borne the nation on a message: not hate, but justice – not reprisal, but dialogue – not past, but future. It's a very powerful wound ointment. Thanks to the AUF and other youth politicians for such wisdom. The welfare state, as we have it in Norway, has also shown its sustainability in a very demanding time for Europe. The policy of creating values, managing the market wisely, ensuring good distribution and taking joint responsibility for each other has led to Norway becoming Europe’s Soria Moria country. We don't know all the consequences this has for us, but there's no reason to change the course. The government follows developments closely and has shown skill in the past and will do so again. Well-being is very much linked to holistic solutions in society as well as to individual measures. Keeping an order in the economy, re-distributing and securing the individual good living conditions and safe income are important pillars of the Community society. We do not find such solidarity in the draft budget of the Right and the Progressive Party. Both parties redistribute differently, and cooperation on this basic policy is not very strong – as the representative Eriksson of the Progress Party said in his statement. Here it is the Progress Party and the Right that are in agreement. The Right Party and the Advance Party provide tax credits of DKK 400-600 for the absolutely lowest wages and up to DKK 70 000 for those who earn millions from before. This, I believe, is an unsolidarian policy that will weaken people's commitment to shared responsibility for each other, and that will weaken the security of people for society to exist in the same way for all its inhabitants. The representative, Røe Isaksen, said that wealth did not depend on political decisions, that it depends on us having people at work. Then I wonder where the representative got it from. Keeping people in work is just dependent on political decisions. To weaken the cooperation with the trade union movement that the Right does through this setting and through many other settings is not something that belongs to the future, it is something that belongs to the past. It is precisely the policy that social democracy has changed through many decisions that have led to the transfer of power from the employer to the employee. This will right-hand bring it back. Some believe that ‘more to everyone’ will solve the welfare challenges, said the representative. Yes, the right clearly shows that it is better to give the big measures to those who have the most from before. The right hand side and the front side make themselves lighter through individual measures, but makes the base wall weather. Their welfare policy is becoming an attack on the support pillars of Norway’s nation-state. There is little help with an extra carnapp, glazed roof tile, when the whole basis for the house is confused. The working party will develop and improve both the house and the ground wall. That is why Nav is a budget winner in this year's budget. The ICT initiative will enable them to accept the provisions made by politicians. We should focus on welfare technologies, prevention with a special focus on children – all these are important measures for the further development of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1040	Norway is a good country to live in. We're all a few of them about this. But yet there is a human being who may not experience this. This is why the aim of work for all is important, while at the same time paying for it. At the same time, a group of people who fall out of work, whether they are unemployed, ill or in the worst cases, should also fall out of work. But even then, one needs to focus on the importance of work, even if one cannot contribute 100 pst. When one takes a look and sees outside his own country, it is clear that we too must be told that the financial turmoil in southern Europe, in particular, can be severe and brutal in our country as well. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that we see that the government will reverse the regulation of leave. If the worst happens and one has to reintroduce this, then a wasted amount of time and bureaucracy will have to get a new case in the Storting to change it. This is not very prophylactic or conservative for the industries that are already worn out, not least for those that get changed from one day to the next. This will not be on the progress side. The fact that we have a country with a low unemployment rate does not have to be a sleep cushion because one does not take action to keep the people we have in work or get more of those outside, even in work. Still, and almost unchanged, there are more than 600 000 outside of work. These banks at work and want to go in, but it's not done enough for this group to include it in society, in line with other employees. Therefore, it is positive that the government has increased focus on job strategy. It is not to be overlooked that one also needs a great deal of knowledge and good guidance from Nav and good cooperation routines with employers so that this group can also enter work doors. In the recent debate on getting more people into the world of work, the debate on involuntary part-time has had a greater focus than keeping them already and recruiting more people in health and care. You can still read about people who work in health care, who will end because of tough work stress and challenges by working at unfavorable times. This is especially true for those who are in a three-part turn. At Specter's conference on Wednesday 30 November, we received a great presentation of an accompaniment at Oslo University Hospital, which pointed out its challenges with the Working Environment Act and any necessary changes that one should have made, because the society and work needs of each employee are in fact changing. The local trust leaders were very positive about any changes, and in spite of everything they had the shoes on, but the central was brake pad against solutions. This was her word. The time a regular tour is over should follow. No, it's the North Sea Tour, the Wish Tour, the Year Tour, or let's call it the Life Phase Tour, because that's actually what it's all about. Or as she said from Oslo University Hospital: One must have a menu to offer them that they themselves can pick from, and he must be as flexible as possible. This possibility should also be included in an up-to-date work environment law. Now one after the other from both the LO and the Trade Union and the State Council and Prime Minister have thrown themselves into the debate on involuntary part-time, and the only salivaging thing is to work more weekends. But one looks at the investigation that this involuntaryness is very small, it turns out. In Haukeland, they were only 160 who wanted to get into a position, and not full. This was the number among over 3,000 part-timers – that is, more than 3,000 will continue in its part-time position. This makes it a little daunted that you have no more focus on keeping them and recruiting new ones. I had a question for the representative of the Trichtbergstien who was dealing with this particular thing, and what one would do about it. When they say that it is decisive that a person gets laid with involuntary part-time to look at this at all with recruitment and to keep more, I don't have words. We are women many of us – women in the Labour Party, the Council of State is women – and we can treat two things at once, and this is important. In the part-time debate, one must also consider that many outsiders will not be able to work full-time. Then one depends on the timer settings being available. Apart from the provision of part-time work for the group that is unable to work full-time, organisation at work is very important. In this case, it is not possible to reduce the amount of help available on the basis that many tools have become more common. I don't think one is right to know that even the one who's supposed to help the one who's got his own challenges, also depends on the availability of a tool, and that this isn't being saved at the moment, if you have to pay yourself. That's why we're increasing by 50 million. kr for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1058	I am pleased that this budget has put in place a strategy to make working life open up to disabled people. It is time, because there is a significantly lower participation in this group than in the rest of the population – tens of thousands have no job involuntary. This, of course, is a heavy burden on individuals, and it is also a waste of resources that we, as a society, cannot live with. On the right, many of the measures presented by the Council of State from our own action plan, ‘From good enough to best possible’, were presented last year. Among other things, the government has followed up our proposal to improve the organisation guarantee for employers, to strengthen the functional assistance system and to designate a proportion of the areas for action for disabled people. These are good and constructive measures that will mean something in the everyday lives of people with disabilities. Honor the one who should be honoured: it is good that the Minister of Labour has this in place. Unfortunately, however, it is too modest to compare with the challenge we face. There are almost 80,000 disabled people who are involuntarily out of work, and then the allocation of 1000 intervention sites to this group is small. In comparison, the Right proposed to set aside 3,000 seats for this purpose in our 2011 alternative budget, and we follow up on next year's budget by adding 2,000 more seats than the government. It is also sad that the government continues to make the arrangements for the permanent provision of assistance in the field of work and education. In 2012, the functional assistant system will be a testing scheme for the 15th consecutive year. The right has higher ambitions. That is why, in addition to earmarking more action places for this group, we will strengthen the system of work and education trips, the functional assistance system, reading and secretarial services for the blind, the service dog system, the system of interpreting assistance for the deaf, and the organisation guarantee for the disabled on the way out to work. In addition, we want to extend the right to group 2 cars, including those over the age of 18, you can't work if you don't get to work. In total, this means that the Right-wing forces the appropriations for this group together with a total of 50 million. kr. As I said, the Right believes that in many ways this is a good strategy. That's why it's a little sad to see that the government parties give with one hand and take with the other. At the same time, while presenting a strategy for the disabled, the government is taking away a tax deduction scheme that helps people with health problems to stay in working life. The system of special deductions for large costs of disease means that taxpayers who have incurred exceptional expenditure in the year of income due to health problems – more than DKK 9000 – or who have disabilities may be deducted from such expenditure. The system has been a prerequisite for many people to stay in the labour market. Now it is removed by the government, the same year as a job strategy is presented to those who are largely in the same group. It's not related. It's worth your while to work. The right will keep the parts of the tax deduction related to work and keep the scheme open to new applicants, at an expense of more than 50 million. kr for 2012. We give priority to facilitating the work of disabled people and people with health challenges. And then we're going to spend 100 million. in addition to the Government's proposals for this purpose. That government has come along, is a little bit small, a little late, and sometimes even counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1075	We are making proposals for the 2012 budget in the major areas related to welfare systems, or, to put it simply, the safety nets of our society, while worrying in Europe – the economy is very demanding. Pensions, basic and auxiliary benefits, measures to get into work or to get on with work – these are all autonomous budget areas, but at the same time they are very closely linked to the rest of our government budget. Our actions are part of a comprehensive policy. We redeploy money within our tax systems, we strengthen education policy and health policy. All the other budget areas affect what we can and should do in our area. If we want to sum up with one sentence what is the government's policy, I believe that "work for all" is the most explicit description of what we think is the most important factor in ensuring our country's good development. What's our great value? Everyone's talking about the oil wealth over and over again. We have a population with a relatively high level of education. But there might be other factors that are much more important. The greatest value and distinction we have in relation to the rest of the world is the degree of employment in our society – «all men in work». We in the population have the decisive factor, which is what has created our success. Women participate in the labour market. It also does to a large extent the disabled. We prioritise the IA work to ensure that we can get into, and stand in, working forward. Over time, we have had much better results in terms of participation in the labour market, especially among women — and the elderly — than the rest of the world has had in the long term. But in one area, we haven't been able to be better than the others, and it's about the participation of people with disabilities. It's a skinny comfort that we're no worse than the rest of the world. We have designed measures and made provision for social welfare schemes to increase participation, but so far we have not been able to get it better than in the rest of the world. In the context of the budget, we are presenting employment measures and a strategy for people with disabilities. Our target group is under 30 years of age, and we focus in particular on the transition between education and work. It's actually historic, what we're doing this time. An overall strategy has not been put forward in the past to improve opportunities for increased labour participation. The strategy is, as we tend to do in Norway, designed in close cooperation with organisations, trade unions and social partners. It's one of the keys to make this work. The strategy points to four areas that prevent disabled people from participating in ordinary employment. It is the discrimination barrier, the cost barrier, the productivity barrier and the information and attitude barrier. Two of those barriers are well entangled in our mindset and our heads. It is about discrimination and attitudes. The two barriers require increased information and knowledge across society, and in all areas of society, we need to be able to change it. To change the rest, we suggest a lot of different approaches. We're increasing the organization grant. We're expanding the test system with functional assistance, and we're continuing on work and education trips. Extra action is being put in place, and we are developing a new test scheme for mentors to strengthen the follow-up of the priority group outside the enterprises. The Employment and Welfare Unit is strengthened by 20 new posts to provide information on the strategy and to assist employers who take people from the main target group. The State of work and welfare also receives project leader or coordinator positions to increase the information work and ensure the internal empowerment of the establishment. We extend the use of the organisation guarantee and ensure that people have a fixed contact person in Nav, so that this becomes clear, easy and predictable to work with. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see. extra for external information and professional and We have to increase our competence in this area. It's about social change and change of attitude. That's something we do with systematic work over time, but we've managed to get together on a strategy. I'm very proud today when we can do this, and that we actually have a broader political majority than the government parties that support this way of working. But the strongest card we have, and which is also going to be the strongest card for the next generations, is that we need to maintain strong and good welfare arrangements, which ensure that if you're not at work, you actually have something to live on. But we also need to maintain competitiveness and that we have the highest employment in the world – not just among women and men, but among all. It is very good to hear that the Minister for Gender Equality also defines that disabled people have sex. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1112	Government parties declare that they are pursuing a policy based on justice and community. They promise that public welfare systems will be renewed and developed, and that working life will be so that everyone can participate. In election campaigns and other debates, the government parties are very much talking about facilitating work for all and stressing that fair distribution and cohesion are fundamental values for the government's work. The same batches indicate that employment in Norway has increased by 40000 people in the last half of the year, and they assume that growth will continue. Government parties boast that Norway differs positively from the majority of European countries, which have some major unemployment problems. One of the reasons Norway continues to have low levels of unemployment recorded is the broad cross-policy consensus on the means to counter the financial crisis. At the same time, it is worrying that the number of young disabled and young social clients is increasing sharply. A new Nav report shows that more and more young people are struggling with health problems, where mental disorders are the most common cause. The consequence of this is that young people have problems getting into, or staying in, work. Psychiatric workers need predictability and to deal with permanent persons. Demanding jobs and major shifts both in the private and public sectors lead to the disappearance of fixed points and the psychologically ill will have problems mastering the work situation. As a result, the proportion of young people receiving health-related benefits is much higher in Norway than in many other countries in Europe, contrary to the Government Party's intention to create a society where there is room for all. The government is adding up to cut the social benefit to almost 60 pst. of new young people with NOK 35000 per year to save about Ninety million. kr annually. As a plastic on the wound, the government parties offer job clearance with course and competence development. This means that those who had little from before will get even less. Those who already wear out mentally and physically will not get better health from being put on redundancy pay. An investigation by the Stortinget Investigation Section carried out on behalf of the Advance Party in 2010 shows that payments for disability pension can be reduced by approximately approx. 700 million. kr per year by contributing to the inclusion in the workforce of half of those currently outside the labour force who wish to join the labour force. Compared to other countries, Norway has low unemployment rates, but some groups, among others. disabled persons, who are largely out of work. Government parties have put forward proposals for strategies and measures to strengthen the inclusion in working life of people with disabilities. When looking at the participation of disabled and chronically ill people, there are not just a number of factors that help to push out or make access to the labour market more difficult. Employers and Nav are perceived as barriers that prevent these groups from getting or keeping work. In its series ‘A working life for all?’, the FFO shows among others: in the case of employment, the employer places no weight on the disabled when they choose not to call for an interview or hire him. Such revelations give cause for concern, especially when they can be seen in the context of other findings that we have seen, including: in a research report by Fafo. There is also feedback that municipalities lack willingness to organise. In meeting with the employer, the focus is not on organisation, but on people being problematic workers. People are pushed into jobs that are less suitable for health or are told to quit. Such examples give a picture of a working life marked by prejudices about the ability of disabled and chronically ill people to work, and are probably one of the reasons why these groups are not working. I refer to the 2012 Progress Party's alternative state budget, where we propose to increase the budget by 560 million. In addition to the government's proposals, to implement and strengthen a number of measures that will contribute to the creation of more disabled and chronically ill people. It is incomprehensible that government parties who claim to have solidarity as a brand, cut in the offer of the weakest and add that those who already felt like the losers of society will now lose even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1133	It is clear that the right parties have been in Sweden and have learned from a policy that has sent thousands of Swedish young people to Norway to look for work. In Sweden, one in five young people are now unemployed. But most of all, they've learned the rhetoric that guaranteed the right-hand party the Moderates two election winners. But the court seems under the skirting edge when the Right cuts heavily in the benefits of single mothers to finance tax reliefs to the richest. In my view, there are two lines of right-wing labour and social policy. They have seen the strength of an organised working life and tripartite cooperation and seem to have a too strong position of power in the labour market. Apart from the fact that they see a task of making trade union membership less advantageous by reducing the tax deduction of the trade union quota, the Right is against all measures that give the trade union movement new means of power in the fight for a decent working life. On the other hand, the corresponding skepticism of actions responsible for employers in this field is, as in Sweden. They make no secret that they will attack the Working Environment Act on the day they have to be given government power. Then there are several temporary jobs, reduced job protection and new working time regulations. Can the Right refer to some examples of more temporary employment giving more permanent employment? On the contrary, in a country such as Spain, where temporary employment is a systematized part of working life, this has only resulted in increasing insecurity and, in fact, a two-way division of labour, as well as an all-over unemployment, where one of two young people meets closed doors to work. I also do not believe that the sick pay scheme will survive any government change in 2013. In this area, too, the Right-wing inspiration from Sweden is provided in the budget setting for an indicative standard medical report, setting a specific number of health care days for each disease. Of course, it is tempting to ridicule such a proposal, if it was not for the Swedish government to actually implement it. But here it's missing for the right at another point. Having learned respect for agreements concluded between the social partners through several budgetary positions, they forget that this proposal violates the agreement on an inclusive working life. The IA agreement between the government and the social partners to reduce sick leave and create an inclusive working life is a fragile construction work. Nevertheless, it is one of the most important agreements we have in Norwegian working life. Therefore, we should be cautious and clever in dealing with it and rather support whether measures have been agreed between the parties. The IA Agreement is also an important tool in the work of decent work. A main objective is to prevent exclusion from the labour market. Here we meet the second main line of the social policy of the right party: the idea that too many of their own free will live a happy life in public budgets, that is, at the expense of the community. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party are repeating to the boring fact that it is worth working, understanding that the welfare state's support schemes are so good that they do not. Of course, it's worth working, and it does. However, those who for many reasons do not have a job to go to should not apologize for it, whether they are unemployed, sick, disabled or disabled. They're not freaks and lats. When we have built through generations a welfare state that takes care of us from cradle to grave, it is because most of us at different times in life need community care and support. I choose to focus on this because the right in the budget setting expresses its view of the welfare state when they write: «The State of prosperity shall not be too inclusive but shall be strong for those in need of assistance.» Or said this from the Right a few years ago: you have to help those who need it the most. I see the queue of worthy needing standing outside the Nav offices with bowed head and hat in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1156	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1159	One of the big issues between the red-green and the opposition is about the so-called flexible working life. Even the representative Reiertsen was here instead that one should try to get the wish tours for any life situation. Then it might be appropriate to look at the more than 40 brave cleaners who work in the ISS, who today chose to go out in the newspaper, and who say: No one listens to us. They describe a reality out in the workplace where you could get a bonus before if you could get more than 15 to 16 rooms, and now, after being outsourced to the ISS, you have to clear 24 rooms and up to 32 rooms. The flexibility these employees don't notice is going on. That's one of the heaviest jobs that you could think of. It is a paradox that there are those who believe that some of the most important employees in a hotel are cut expenses when it comes to cleaners, while others are key employees and are automatically more deserving of wages. ISS is organised in the NHO Service. For those of us who got the message to the NHO earlier this year, when you were worried about the welfare trap, and for there to be too many on sick pay and social security, it must be interesting that when someone gets sick 50 pst. In their own businesses, you're told by their closest boss that if you can't handle more than 12 rooms, you really don't have anything to do at work. You talk to two tongues. In the social debate, it is said that there is too much expenditure for those who are no longer able to do the work and need to be registered, but in their own businesses there is no longer room for those who can only work on the job. This is about the organized working life. It's about corporate democracy, and it's about building trustees and having the opportunity to be heard and respected in their own workplace. This is why the government is taking an incredibly important step to ensure the balance of power in this sector, too, through the clean-up industry programme. Competition outsourcing, outsourcing, is often the use and throw-mentality and use of illegal temporary employment. It is easy to talk about flexibility for those who have to experience it, but too many, and especially those who are perhaps the most vulnerable in the workplace, experience no flexibility. Job No One is to make sure that people have a job to do, but it doesn't just last – we also have to fight to make people have a job to live from time to time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1176	Infringement of the Work Environment Act is totally unacceptable, wherever it happens. It would be interesting to hear the representative for Forsberg swinging his social-democratic blow over Trondheim's municipality's 40,000 breaches of the Working Environment Act, above Aarhus, for which the government has direct responsibility, with its 20,000 breaches of the Working Environment Act, or the university and higher education sectors and the hospital sector, which are the two sectors in Norway with the most temporary employees. But that was not the theme of my post. What I wanted to talk about was the challenges associated with the Norwegian model and the Norwegian labour market. The budget debate you have today is in many ways an expression of the fact that the Norwegian model, which is supported by all parties on the Stortinget, is that those who are at work must pay for those who cannot be at work, both working and not working. It works because one sees that people in need of community support receive support, but it does not work when one sees that there is a strong growth, and has been a strong growth, in the number of people who are out of work or who do not enter the labour market, despite the fact that Norway has had a historically high employment over many years and a strong growth in employment. One speaks of Norway as having low leave, but we also have a situation where we have never before picked up more workers from the EEA territory. This means that many of them have been employed in a situation where young people who have attended Norwegian school have received their education here and should have been employed in Norway, do not enter the labour market. It's not because they're late or they don't want to work, but because it's part of our system that kicks people out or prevents people from entering the world of work. Therefore, it is important not only to look at the symptoms of poverty but also at the causes of poverty. The most common reason for poverty is that one is permanently out of work. The most common causes of a permanent out-of-work period are related to illness, in particular drug use and psychiatry. The waiting time for drug treatment has increased since 2006, and more people are in line. Today, there are 2,900 addicts who are in line and want to get help to get out of bed — without getting the help they are asking for. Under this government health cows have increased every year, so that now 270,000 are waiting for health care. The longer you wait, the harder it is to get well and the longer distance it gets to work. There is absolute reason to address the causes of poverty and to help more people return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1189	I just want to link a few comments to some of what has been said. But first, I would like to mention a proposal that the Progress Party has held on a war pension and that has also been promoted in the media. Just so it is said: although the Right has not attached any concrete comments to it in the budget, it is quite obvious that this is a proposal to which we are positive, but we believe that we need to look at it more closely, also because it is linked to a large cost. Those responsible for veterinary matters and for making good arrangements for those who have been in service for Norway are also in good contact with the veterinary organisations. Then I think there are a few things in the debate that are striking. The first is that the representative of Gullvåg reiterates a claim that the Right has opposed all measures to counteract social dumping. It is very striking that, through two months of budgetary procedure, it has still not been possible to give examples of this. We write in our position what our clear review shows, namely that 19 out of 24 measures that this government has put forward against social dumping have voted in favour of. Among other things, we have voted in favour of having a clear responsibility not to impair the rights or pay conditions of employees when they are a public purchaser. We have voted in favour of – and even called for – a stricter regime than the government in terms of ID cards and an authorisation system for the clean-up industry. Long before this government decided to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, the Right consistently added extra funds to the Labour Inspectorate just to clean up where there is unprofessionalism. We also have a very clear wording in this year's budgetary position. We say that there is no target, rather the opposite, of creating a two-sided labour market in Norway, where some enter and work for far lower wages than other Norwegian workers. I also think it is striking that the representative of Gullvåg is so tall and dark when it comes to the so-called norms. I refer you to the Newspaper 20 November 2009. It says under the heading «The Swedish cure» that one of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's proposals to reduce the high level of sick leave is «standardised medical treatment». I stress that it is not the proposal of the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, but that one of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's proposals to reduce the high level of sick leave is a standard medical report. It shows the double communication that the Workers' Party has constantly, that when they themselves make a proposal, it is to strengthen the Norwegian model, while when the Right later proposes something similar, or exactly similar, it is somehow an attack on the Norwegian model. So it is the Newspaper on 20 November 2009 and we can thank Jens Stoltenberg, the Prime Minister of the Workers' Party, for having this proposal entered the Norwegian debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1200	We are in a unique situation here in the country now, and fortunately we have very low unemployment and very high employment. This combination is unique. In view of the situation elsewhere in Europe, where high unemployment and large, severe cuts in public budgets are being made, we see how incredibly important it is to keep the economy in order, so that welfare measures and welfare systems withstand the fluctuations in the economy. We know that the oscillations are coming, but we don't know how much they're coming. Ensuring that the safety net – built up to capture some different reasons, such as health reasons, fluctuations in the labour market or other reasons – withstands the storms that come, is important to ensure that more people are able to work and that those who cannot be in regular employment can still get an organized offer of work or activity. I choose to believe that the people who are confident that the welfare state sets up when the needs are there, are also the people who dare to be more. It is those who can create new jobs, both for themselves and for others. In examining the budget today, it has created a certain commitment that the government proposes to change payment practices for labour market measures, working practices, clarification and permanent work. That's understandable. Of course, changing a incorporated scheme creates uncertainty. Some thought that the proposal was to set up a smith, in the sense that the problem lies with Nav, and that it is therefore wrong to create uncertainty among the organisers of the action. At the same time, it is clear from the vast majority, both from the action companies themselves and from most political parties, that it is not right for Nav to pay for unused sites. Government parties do not wish in any way to create uncertainty in these important companies. A good and comprehensive note has now been prepared to address this uncertainty. It maintains that the payment scheme will be changed from the next summer but that it will be a process before that time. The note also outlines that both the Ministry, Nav and the action companies together implement this in a way that meets the need for predictability. This is the responsibility of several parties, not least Nav. Nav, who orders and buys services from the action companies, has developed good and close cooperation in several places in the country, and in these places the deviations between the services ordered and the services provided are minimal. If we are to get good quality services from businesses, the quality must also be reflected in Nav and in the department. Through a process that has to be achieved in the summer, this shall be made visible through a briefing in the revised national budget. The action companies are a crumbling step in the action apparatus, and we are going to take care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1211	It is not true that the number of disability pensioners has increased significantly in Norway in recent years. The point is that Norway has a very high employment rate. What distinguishes us is employment among women and employment in the 55-64 age group. Many countries, including Austria and the Netherlands, which Erna Solberg has recently drawn up as good examples, have very low employment rates in just these groups. We have many older people working in Norway – that’s good. But there's also a group that gets increased health problems. The fact that we have had large post-war coals in Norway, that is, many now in that age group, cannot be denied to the government. The good thing is that we have a lot of people at work. But we also have a group that has acquired rights to social security and that in most other countries is on retirement or in private care. The same applies to the group of women, who in very many of the same countries are not working, and therefore do not have the same rights. I think it is very important that we are a little thorough and careful in that debate. So to the job strategy: I'm very happy with the support I get from the Right and from other parts of the Storting for that strategy. I think we should be so honest and proper that we don't overwhelm each other as to how much money we put into that strategy. This was one of the things I took up in my post, where I said that here one is more concerned with enthusiasm than being realistic in their budgeting. I believe that the government has put a very suitable and good volume into the measures. We can put in more money, but I don't think we can make good use of that money this year. We have done this in cooperation with the user groups, which are very concerned that we are now going to have a serious approach to this, and that we are going to succeed. Then we must have targeted efforts. Putting a lot of money in here, won't be what solves the problem in the first financial year, in 2012, for this strategy. One of the last posts I'm going to address concerns breaches of the Working Environment Act, and where it is referred to the offences that have been committed in the health sector. Interestingly, the review I have had with the Labour Inspectorate shows that, in general, the breaks you saw would include: in Trondheim, were avoided if Trondheim had used the means, possibilities and flexibility of the current labour law. That is the reality. The breaches that fall outside it are so big and grave that I think we all here would have agreed that they should have us in any case not had, and a change in the law would not change that. I also think it is very important that we agree. Then I register that the right is talking to several tongues – or what you are now saying. When the issue in Trondheim was up, there was an interview on TV with the rapporteur candidate from the Right, who said that what happened at the hospitals in Trondheim was gross exploitation of the employees who had to work for so long. This is what the Right in other contexts say should have been applied – far on the way – in the existing Work Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1225	Before the next speaker is given the floor, the President will merely state that the called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Knut Magnus Olsen, are now taking their seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1231	I want to comment on a few things that have been said from this pulpit. I registered that representatives from the government parties were under attack on both the Right and the Advance Party to undermine the importance of the trade union movement by removing the union quota, i.e. by deducting the union quota. It is quite interesting if it alone is to lead to a trade union movement having an impact on Norwegian employment. Just to take it in a slightly different perspective: the union quota that can be deducted – to say so to the representative of Gullvåg – is NOK 3 750. The tax effect of that is NOK 1050. With the Progress Party's alternative proposal to increase the bottom line from NOK 78 150 to NOK 90 000, it will mean a tax effect for an industrial worker, a LO member working at Aker Verdal, of NOK 3318, i.e. a three-fold increase as proposed by the government to compensate for the loss of the trade union quota. Take a low wage and increase the bottom deduction from 38 pst. To 45 pst, it's going to raise the tax effect by $2,940. So that would mean that these workers are being undermined, I find it hard to imagine. But I record it as the simple man's rhetoric from this pulpit. Then I'm also happy to say – just to clarify one thing like there's been some misunderstandings around in the linecode exchanges – that I didn't say we were to renegotiate the pension reform with the other parties. I said if we get a majority in Stortinget, we're going to sit down and negotiate a government platform. It may be part of the pension question that it is quite clear that the Progress Party wants to negotiate, among others. the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, which is not a major part of the pension reform. But we see that as a consequence of this pension reform, the low-paid with income of less than NOK 350,000, married or cohabited, will get full curtailment, but if you are married or cohabited, highly paid and earning over NOK 405000, you have no curtailment. I can't imagine that there's good redistribution and fair distribution, as the left-hand side of Norwegian politics says from this pulpit. Such grips must be agreed on, even in the future. I hope that perhaps you can agree with Stortinget to do something about just that part in good time before 2013, because it should be a unanimous increase that saw the accidents associated with the legislation in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1238	After all, the section of the Progress Party in the deduction of the union quota is just one example of the continuous debate The Progress Party shows for the trade movement and for the organized working life. In the comments from both the Party of Advancement and the Right, it is shown consistently. Pre-negotiated agreements have been distrusted; attacks are being made on the main tools of the trade movement, such as: the setting right. But we're going to get back to that. A lot has been said about work being the way out of poverty. Yeah, that's right. That's what the line of work is about. Most in Norway work. We have a higher employment rate than any other country, and then we have something that's amazing next to it: we have a system that makes those who can't work take care of through the welfare state and social security systems. It's just positive, and it's one of the best signs of Norwegian society. This means that we have low poverty in Norway. I have to protest when the right side repeatedly pulls up the debate about the alienation and mentions that we have 600 000 people who are on a health-related performance. That's right, we have 600 000 people who receive some kind of health-related benefit, short-term or long-term. It is wrong to pretend that these 600 000 people do not participate in the world of work, but can and should, and that they are permanently outside today and are a burden to society. First, most of these are 600,000 on short-term benefits, they have a foot within the labour market, and they're going back to work again. So they participate even if they receive a temporary benefit. Therefore, I distance myself from the Right description of the so-called exclusion, with the stigmatisation that the debate brings with it. We have seen what that stigmatisation brought about by new policies in Sweden when Reinfeldt took power – cut in social security, cut in sick pay. It also does the opposition in its alternative budgets. They cut in social security, and they cut in sick pay, but it should not go out on anyone. It is only decided that from 1 January thousands of people are healthy, so they do not need these benefits. It's with respect to report unprofessionally. The right also copies Reinfeldt in other areas, such as reading in their comments: «The State of prosperity shall not be too inclusive but shall be strong for those in need of assistance.» At the same time, the Right Transition Fund, the incomes of lone dependants are eliminated. They remove the pot in the case of involuntary part-time, all in order to finance tax cuts for high pay. Is it true that in the Right's welfare state, the millionaires need help, since single-parents, part-time workers and others are to finance tax cuts for the wealthiest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1256	At the end of the debate, there is reason to conclude that employment is worthwhile in Norway. In Norway, we have good benefits and rights for people who are too sick to work or who do not get a job. This is also why many benefit in Norway when in such a situation — people who, if they had lived in another country, would not be on the list, and thus would not be on the Right Exclusion List. Poor they had been, without work they had been, but they had not been of concern to the Right. Those who feel that it is worth working must also review their own policies when they want more of what they call flexible labour markets, more temporary workers and weaker measures against social dumping. This will mean that those who already have the hardest, the most insecure and the worst paid jobs will have to fight more to keep them and perhaps even pay off. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left have opposed the main measures against social dumping, namely access rights, in order to enable employees to obtain evidence of illegalities. They have gone against joint and several liability, which is to ensure that those who take on the duties of someone who is underprivileged actually have to pay the wages to those who have not been paid – that is, it is too cheap, and something is wrong. It has not been on the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. They have also said no to regional protection agencies in the cleaning industry and in the hotel and restaurant industries – industries where we know that the use of social dumping, exclusion and, in particular, sick leave and disability are sky high. There are low-paid women who work in unsafe industries, who should not even be able to get help from a regional protection agent to ensure that there are legitimate conditions in the industry. So there's a reason to ask who the right parties think needs the community. This community includes both the public sector and well-organised work. We know that it can keep pay and work conditions up, so that it is possible to live on their wages, and that it is possible to have a job you do not ruin your health. So there's a need to tighten up – don't slack up, as the right parties will. That's why the cuts that the right-hand side makes in the social welfare of lone dependants are also alarming. So there's 30,000 going on social assistance. You just take more money from one group of single-parent families than what you put in the packages to improve the situation for the most disadvantaged. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1267	I have to ask that those who quote quote quote correctly. When in my first post I focused on the Right relationship with the trade union movement, I said that the Right is ‘in contrast to all measures that give the trade union movement new powers in the fight for a decent working life’. I still mean that. The right has been against joint and several liability, against the extended right of transparency and discussion for the trade union movement, against the regional protection representatives, but I think it is fine if the right gradually comes up with better thoughts. We may get the answer when we are going to deal with the big business message about a decent working life. The problem for the Right is that they are stuck in their old stuff of thought all the time. They think like the Right always thought, even though the facade paints light blue with a certain welfare rhetoric. It's just like when one of the Right speakers failed in the financial debate recently, that distribution policy is something social democrats are involved in. That's right. We're doing it, and distribution policy is missing Right. So I think something's kind of weird, really. While unemployment in the countries around us is increasing, it is falling in Norway. In November, we actually had a thousand fewer totally unemployed, according to Nav's seasonally adjusted figures. Unemployment is now down to 2.4 p.m., and at the end of November, there were 61 600 totally unemployed. Last year's decline is 7,800 people, or 11 pst. Instead of giving praise to the government for an active labour market policy, the party is right concerned about the decline in private sector employment from 2008 to 2010, i.e. the impact of the financial crisis. But the most worrying thing in their eyes is, of course, that public sector employment has increased over the same period, which is, of course, the result of a Keynesian economic policy in the face of the crisis. But once again we see the top below the skirt edge, because the right parts are all at the same age. There is a job in the public sector less valuable than a job in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1278	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1281	I fully agree that we should quote correctly. I would therefore like to point out to the representative of Gullvåg, who said that the Right wrote that the welfare state should not be for everyone, that we have written that it should not be 'everything for all'. Then maybe we can both promise that to the next year we'll be even more accurate when we quote each other – and then we'll assume that. I'm a little surprised that you're so skeptical about the use of the word "outership". I have mentioned several times from this pulpit and can quote from the Workers' Party's website on 25 February 2010, where the representative Trettebergstien writes: and «we reduce the chance of permanent exclusion». It is strange – once again – that when the Right uses the word, it is bad, while when the Workers' Party does, it is a matter of concern to the Norwegian model. Right, put in 400 million. fresh SEK 250 million for work training. more than the government of poverty measures. So we're increasing by more than what the conversion of the transitional benefit is. Finally, I would just like to say that I think it's a misgiving that you talk about the "disdain" and the kind of thing from the Stortinge pulpit. I think we can be careful to say that we are dissenting politically – without saying anything about the individual's mindset.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1292	I understand that the representative Gullvåg and some of the other representatives from the red-green parties have to go into the world of imagination and to Sweden, the Netherlands and other countries to try to find what they want to have as opponents. It must be pointed out that what they want to do as an opponent, they are unable to find in this budgetary position or in the Norwegian political debate. But there shouldn't be any need to run with this type of rhetoric, you could rather discuss the things you disagree with. Another example of this is when the Council of State itself speaks as if the Right has used the breaches of the Working Environment Act that have been under public control, both in businesses for which the government and the Council themselves are responsible, and in red-green-headed Trondheim, as arguments for amending the Working Environment Act. The right has not done that. On the contrary, the places where the Right has been responsible have been taken responsibility and terminated the agreement with the individuals who have violated the Working Environment Act, which contrasts with the ghastly way in which the Labour Party rapporteur in Moss dealt with similar matters. It is also quite special to call it contempt for trade unions when the Right wants a slightly lower tax deduction for the trade union quota than the government does, given that the level proposed by the Right in this state budget is at the same level as it was under the Stoltenberg I government. Then there was hardly any contempt for the trade unions. The fact that the Right prioritises forms of tax relief other than tax relief for those who are members of a trade union, but for example: gives our greatest tax relief to those people who have the lowest income, means that Right wants more work to be paid. It is a political disagreement, a political priority, where there should not have been a need to use terms such as ‘neighbour’. Among other things, the Right prioritises the use of some of these funds to provide tax relief to people who want to support other types of activities, such as: giving gifts to non-profit institutions serving households, which also carry out important social work in Norway. I wouldn't call it contempt for trade unions, but it's another kind of priority. So the representative Karin Andersen says that 30,000 more people will go to social assistance with the Right proposal. The right-hand proposal in the case of transitional assistance is a contribution to strengthening the working line, because we see that when people are kept permanently out of work, it becomes more difficult to get back to work. If there is something that makes children in Norway grow up in poor families, it is that they grow up with parents who do not have a strong connection with the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1303	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1306	Firstly, there have been numerous statements from both the Right and the Advance Party, which have shown that there are offences against the Working Environment Act both in private enterprises and in the public sector, and have been used to justify the need to liberalise the Working Environment Act. There have been a number of such recordings. The second is the grotesque redistribution proposal, namely to remove the transitional aid for all those who have had it for more than one year, as proposed by the Right and the Advance Party. Here, the government has made a sensible change, so that the individual will have the opportunity to work, take education, have language training and other measures that will enable them to support themselves when the child is given kindergarten. This revenue removes the Right Party and the Advance Party. It is a reality. They have not added a penny more to the payroll, nor have they added more to the daily allowance. Then there's only social assistance left to support these lonely caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1313	I can comfort the representative Höie by saying that he does not have to travel to Sweden to see the outcome of the right-hand side policy. He can travel to Kristiansand, there are good examples of how the Right Party and the Advance Party govern. They will have increased cash support, it has been admitted by the Christian People's Party, they will increase the penalty for being ill, they will reduce cooperation with the employees' organisations, and they will reduce the power of the employees to discuss the measures to be taken. The representative, Höie, was also concerned with the problems associated with being addictive or mentally ill. That's right, it's important to have good access to treatment. Now it's like this government, which with good faith from the previous government has invested in these groups of people. We have gained much better quality of treatment in both drug and mental health, but we still have a way to go. The most important work to get these included in society is that they are qualified to get a job, that they are offered a qualification programme, and that they are moved from social assistance to sustainable income protection, so that they can contribute to what they have of resources and abilities, in line with everyone else. The experience of right-wing policy is now being seen in some cities. It's a ramask rig, for example. in Kristiansand. The entire trade movement and all the employees stand up and say that this is very bad. It is an example of just putting the negotiated contract work aside, running its own race and choosing not to listen to the employees and those who are actually ill. If someone thinks that punishing sick people by drawing them into bonus schemes is going to lead to more inclusion of those who have problems getting into the labour market, they should think twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1323	Steinar Gullvåg has spoken twice, like so many others in the debate, and is therefore now given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1326	I still allow myself to compare with Sweden, although the representative Höie does not think it is very convenient. I do this because in the setting you find significant traces from Sweden, to which the Right itself refers, and to which I referred in my post. Even more importantly, the policy to which the Right now refers is what draws the lines of Norwegian policy. The election in 2013 will be about Norwegian working life, about the work environment law, about temporary employment, about dismissal protection, and it will be highly about the role of trade union movement in society. I shall say one thing that is quite clear: without the involvement of the trade union movement, we will never be able to win the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1333	It has been a little strange to sit and listen to this debate. One would not think that we were in peaceful Norway when one heard the violent attacks from the Workers' Party and SV against the Right. I would like to say first to the very last representative of Gullvåg, that I am in agreement, that the trade union movement plays a very important role in the fight against social dumping. The representative Henriksen spoke about the experience of Right-wing policy. Yes, in fact, four out of ten Norwegians had such a good experience living in a Right-steered municipality that today there are more than 50 pst. of the people of Norway who have elected a Right-Rapporteur and who live in a Right-Collected Municipality. There are more and more, just as there are several members of the LO who now say that they will vote Right – not because the Right shows contempt for the trade movement, as the representative Trettebergstuen says, but because the Right has an industrial policy that secures jobs, because the Right has a welfare policy that works, and because the Right recognises that the trade movement has played an important role in Norwegian society. The Nordic model and the value of relatively small differences are not owned by the Workers' Party, they are values common to Nordic communities. Right has been with and ruled Norway for long periods in the post-war period, and we are proud of the society we've been with and built up. But that doesn't mean you agree on everything. I have to say that it is quite special to sit in the hall and be taught about the poverty reduction of SV, SV who have been in government for six years, and at that time the number of children living in economically poor homes has increased, there are several who are homeless, and the waiting time for drug treatment has increased. On the day SV takes responsibility and refers to results in these areas, we can discuss. But so far it is very special to be taught about combating poverty by the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1346	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See pages 1134 and 1142]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1375	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1384	I think I'll pick in my post to put the emphasis on Prop. 138 L, and then I'll get a new post if I don't get time to get into Prop. 141 L in the first install. To start with Prop. 138 L deals with the Storting in this case with proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act as regards the use of coercive agents. The law already authorises the use of coercive measures against persons with uncertain IDs, persons feared to refrain from decisions on return, and persons posing a threat to fundamental national interests. I show you, among other things: for the treatment of Prop by the Storting. 11 L for 2009-2010 on 3 December 2009, where coercive measures, imposed place of residence and withdrawal of travel documents, were adopted, extended to a wider population than before. There was full agreement on that. On 17 December 2010, we adopted, also largely unanimously, proposals for legislative adaptations following the adoption of the Return Directive, inter alia. use of coercive agents if someone tries to abstain from return. In other words, the majority have several times agreed on the principle of the use of coercive substances. The aim is to achieve a more effective return of persons without legal residence in Norway and to prevent the asylum institution from being exploited by persons without a right to protection. In particular, I would like to highlight those who abuse the institution of asylum to commit crime and those who pose a threat to fundamental national interests. It is important not to allow such persons to undermine the institution of asylum. It benefits primarily those who need our protection, when the alienation authorities have more room to concentrate on their needs, instead of using a disproportionate share of their resources on people who abuse the system. Of course, when it comes to the use of coercive measures, we are bound by international obligations. But even after the restrictions, we have less rules than the international rules give us access to. In this case, we are taking greater advantage of the scope of action we still have, but, and I stress it, with the same premise as before, that no more in-depth rules should be established than is necessary to prevent the misuse of the asylum institution. The Government has therefore waived two of the proposals in the letter of consultation, one on a new and more stringent basis for a particular place of residence and the notification requirement for those who prevent or significantly distort the handling of an asylum or expulsion case, and one on the extension of the manufacturing period to three days. The changes we are invited to decide on are: a reduction in the likelihood of using the coercive means available to us already, such as search, seizure, reporting, forced residence and imprisonment in the case of identity or avoidance risks in the event of rejection of the asylum application. Instead of the probability balance, which is currently proposed, the requirement is lowered to concrete ‘to be assumed’ points of view, etc. The changes bring our rules more into line with the rules of other Nordic countries. The proposals have also been checked out in relation to our international commitments. Unfortunately, for some time, there have been growing problems with profitability and drug trafficking among some asylum seekers and people without legal residence in Norway. More effective measures have often been discussed, as late as the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice last week. So far, we haven't had our own homes to use coercive measures against non-residents who commit crime, but have had to walk the road to identity or avoidance. Now we get this in place. Some words about prison: it is the most intrusive tool the state can use for individuals. It should therefore only be used if the same cannot be achieved by other types of coercive agents, such as: the obligation to notify and place of residence imposed. An expulsion decision shall exist if there is no other basis for imprisonment based on ID doubt or avoidance. This applies to a period of 12 weeks, except in special cases, inter alia: in the interests of fundamental national interests. Child imprisonment shall only take place when required. Finally, briefly on the Committee's examination of this matter: I would like to start by correcting a minor error on page 7 of the setting, the second last paragraph before point 1.3.3.2. In the case of an error, reference is made to ‘point 3.3.1.2 below’. So the right thing must be point 1.3.3.2. Since the legislative proposals had already been in wide consultation before they arrived in Stortinget, we felt that there was no need for own consultation here. In agreement with the department, we have added the proposal to the second paragraph of Section 103, which is only a clarification, without any change in reality. The position of the Committee is unanimous. Then I'll get back to Prop. 141 L for 2010–2011 in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1403	I also want to focus on my first article on Prop. 138 L for 2010–2011, for which there is some disagreement, at least as regards the comments, although there is a large consensus on the proposal for a decision. Most of the hearing bodies have, as the rapporteur also pointed out, been in favour of the proposals put forward, and the Progress Party is also positive, as this is a major step in the right direction according to the policies of the Progress Party and how the Progress Party believes the law should be in the area of immigration and integration policy. There are a few disagreements about the proposal, and there are, among other things, differences. What to do with prison. The progress party has gone out of a comment on prison, and I would like to explain why. For the Progress Party, imprisonment in this context is a closed reception. We want to be sure that those who come to this country as asylum seekers can be kept in closed reception until their identity is established, and they have cooperated on this. The reason why we want that is that there is a tightening up that can work in the way that fewer applicants come to Norway, because we know that a large part of those who come are coming without identity papers, or with fake ID papers, and then it can be a good solution to have them in closed reception until this is settled. If they break any of the laws and regulations we have, it's now stated that we can have reporting obligations and certain places of residence. But if you've already broken this and get a duty and a place of stay, and the person disappears, it's too late. Then the person is all gone. For this reason, the Progress Party also wants the possibility of detaining them in this context, rather than simply appealing to them for notification and a specific place of residence. As I said, it's too late when they've already escaped from the place they are. The Progress Party is also concerned that part of those seeking asylum in Norway who are being rejected will return for the second, third and perhaps fourth time. The possibility of then confirming identity is, as it is today, not too much. Once they have done criminal acts, they have an opportunity to take fingerprints, but we also know that several people are removing their fingerprints to allow them to come back and seek asylum again. The party is concerned that this possibility should be restricted, and we therefore want DNA samples to be taken from those who come to Norway as asylum seekers to clarify the identity. This way of doing so may also help to determine later whether these persons have committed illegal acts in other countries before coming to Norway. The party is also entitled to appeal when it has applied for asylum in Norway and has been refused. As it is today, it appeals to UNE, and it goes the way of justice in several instances. So you have the opportunity to try your case over and over again. The party responsible for progress is that once a refusal has been made and it is to be appealed, it should be the right to decide on it. I myself have been talking to asylum seekers who have been accommodated, and who think it is strange that we have as many appeals as we have in Norway. What they also express is that they will have greater respect for a decision made by a right than for a decision made by a denominator, which is then largely based on judgement. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to go much further and to say that the appeal following UDI proceedings should be a legal case and that it is the final decision. Finally, I would like to add a few words to Prop. 141 L and that with the consultation of children. It's important, what the message says, that children should be allowed to express themselves freely. There is a right that kids should have in any case, and without being pressured on opinions and pressures from others, for example. parents sitting next to them. The possibility we then have of questioning young people, perhaps clarifying misunderstandings, and not least looking at them in a discrepancy between their parents' explanation and the child's explanation, can help to check this and to find out whether any misunderstandings are such that there is a basis for saying no to an asylum application.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1418	The government proposes some changes and restrictions in foreign legislation, while strengthening children’s rights. That is good, and the right supports the proposed changes. The Ministry stresses that there are several reasons why a person now wants to introduce rules on the detention of asylum seekers and persons with illegal residence who commit crime. In recent years, there has been an increasing problem with asylum seekers and foreigners without legal residence who commit crime. This is particularly linked to the profitability and possession and sale of drugs in open drug settings. There has been a growing recognition of the need for the establishment of an effective system for preventing criminal exploitation of the Code of Protection by the institution of asylum. It is in itself unfortunate that the Norwegian police authorities have weaker instruments to use in their efforts to enforce effective foreign controls than the police authorities in our neighbouring country. However, in a number of cases, there will be a new possibility of coercive measures following the new home, and in some cases it will also provide the police with a simpler basis for obtaining the court’s authorisation for the use of coercive substances. Therefore, compared with foreigners who wonder about coming to Norway to commit crime, the new provisions can give a clear signal of an increased risk, which will be important when assessing the cost of travelling to Norway. The Ministry has also proposed a new detention centre for non-residents that poses a threat to fundamental national interests. Both Denmark and Sweden have specific prison rules for this group. It is proposed as a condition for imprisonment that the foreigner poses a threat to fundamental national interests. With the proposals in Prop. 138 L for 2010-2011, access to coercive substances is further extended. Among the key instruments proposed are reduced evidence requirements for the detention of doubt about identity or the risk of avoidance. There shall no longer be a requirement for a probability overweight, but nevertheless a requirement for a specific point of view in the individual case. Furthermore, the possibility of imposing a notification obligation or specific place of residence is extended to non-residents who are asylum seekers or without a legal stay and who commit criminal offences which may result in a sentence higher than six months of imprisonment. It is proposed that incarceration can be assessed during the treatment of the foreign issue if the order is broken. A specific legal basis is proposed for the imprisonment of persons in an active broadcasting process who pose a threat to fundamental national interests, provided that return can be carried out within a specified period of time. This is, in the view of the Right, a reasonable constraint, but these measures will only have the desired effect on the functioning of the return policy. Work on setting up return agreements with other countries needs to be intensified. For countries that do not cooperate in this respect, the government should use, for example: cut in aid to put in place return agreements. The identity clearance process must be strengthened. There are things done, but it is important to speed up this work. It is also important that we have sufficient capacity on Trandum or equivalent reception so that what is now actually to be adopted can be implemented. A broad majority emphasises that there is no longer a general basis for detaining asylum seekers on the basis that they are asylum seekers. Seeking asylum is not illegal. It's a human right to apply for protection. People applying for international protection must not be treated as criminals. In this context, the majority point out that the EU Refugees Directive also prohibits Member States from having rules on the detention of asylum seekers solely on the basis that they have applied for asylum. So a cleanup in the use of language in connection with the treatment of Prop. 141 L. The term ‘race’ is now removed from the Foreign Affairs Act and replaced by ‘Ethnicity, progeny, skin colour’ in Section 28. This is a change that the Right agrees with. It is important that we now get clear concepts of legislation that do not seem stigmatizing. Then it is the proposal to give children the right to be consulted on matters relating to the law on foreigners. As it says: ‘If the child so wishes and it is necessary to exercise the right of the child to be heard, the body preparing or deciding the case may decide that a conversation shall be conducted with the child even if the parents do not agree.’; In that case, a guardian shall be appointed. That's good. It is gratifying that there is a co-ordinated increase – at least a co-ordinated committee – that is now making these changes to the foreign legislation. It shows that, in practical immigration policy, there is a broad consensus on the instruments – from SV to the Progress Party. It's only when we start discussing symbolism policies and attitudes to immigration that the differences get bigger. But, as it says, by law, the land shall be built, not with a look-up in the tabloids. Therefore, today’s decision is joyous in more than one way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1455	The rapporteur presented the matter very well. However, I would like to stress from the SV that we are very pleased that children's rights in foreign affairs are strengthened, and that there is now an explicit legal support to be able to conduct a conversation with all children – in all cases, according to the law – sail if the parents do not agree. It's very important. It is also important to be able to carry out such conversations without allowing parents to be present. There are examples of harm to the child’s interest that it has not been. That is why I am very pleased that a change in the law has now been made to protect the children’s right to be heard – specifically, as a maritime right – and that not only in case of concern do you set up such an opportunity, but that it is a maritime right-wing child who has to be heard. With regard to the other proposals for increased access to prison in foreign affairs, there is a broad consensus on the proposals, but there are maritime dilemmas related to these issues. I don't think that's a secret. It is important to stress that the human rights obligations of Norway in these cases must be founded. The change you make here is that you replace – essentially – a ‘various reason’ with the term ‘holding points to assume’. I would like to stress that when these changes are made, there should be an individual justification. There should be objective criteria — that is, there are no types of bag assessments to be made for groups of people, but that this must be the case for individuals. In addition, there is a political assessment related to this, because the institution of asylum has been under great pressure, and because in all migration flows – throughout all history – it turns out that there is also a part of crime involved. In order to keep the institution of asylum up – because it is so very important to have it to protect people – it is also necessary to be able to deal with the cases where the institution of asylum is being abused to commit criminal acts. You have to make sure that you have the opportunity to get better returns, and you have to have some stronger tools than what we have today, towards those who hide their identity, do not broadcast or commit crime. Having said that, I believe that we have to follow this field carefully, because it is one of those fields where it is easy to have a debate about individual matters that makes it possible to run the risk of going across legal certainty. That is why I am pleased with the broad majority in this matter – and that the broad majority also supports the principles that it is our human rights obligations that should be based, and that there are objective criteria and individual assessments that should be used when applying these new legislative paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1468	In recent years we have had a growing problem with asylum seekers and foreigners without legal residence who commit crime. In particular, it concerns the criminality of profits and the possession and sale of drugs. The fact that many abuse the asylum system by committing crime is not only a major social problem, but it can also help to weaken the integration of the whole asylum institution. The use of coercive measures helps to make the use of the asylum system more difficult and will improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the rejection decisions. The Foreign Affairs Act does not currently have its own rules on access to the use of coercive measures against non-residents who commit less serious crimes, for example: the possession of less quantities of drugs. In itself, it is unfortunate that Norwegian police authorities have poorer instruments in their efforts to enforce effective foreign controls than they have in many of our neighbouring countries. I am therefore pleased that we are now adopting a change to Section 105, which provides for the right to impose reporting obligations on non-residents or specific residence if ‘the alien is an asylum seeker or has illegal residence and has been penalised for a criminal offence or is being committed in the course of a criminal offence’, which may result in a prison sentence of six months or more. It has been manufactured as if criminal asylum seekers in Oslo were now to be sent out to randomly selected municipalities in the districts. Of course it's not like that. In many cases, the police in a municipal asylum seeker have a residence address in another municipality. He/she will now be required to stay in the municipality where he/she is registered. Normally, that is to say, at a specific reception point where he has been assigned a place of reception. He/she will then be required to notify. An order for a specific place of residence could both prevent him from seeking out criminal settings in other municipalities and could counteract the possibility of engaging in accommodating criminal activity. Today, for example. a major problem that asylum seekers located at reception outside Oslo are engaged in drug sales in the capital. The application for a place of stay would deprive them of the opportunity to enter Oslo. The Central Party and I would like to stress that this home cannot in any way be used to establish a practice where, for example: places criminals in municipalities or residential areas other than where they are already resident, or are given reception. It's just about a imposition. He must stay where he is registered. No in-depth check is assumed that the foreigner does not move freely outside the area assigned, but the central one here would be that the police would have the opportunity to assess imprisonment if it occurred outside the area or did not comply with the notification requirement. § 106 states that a foreigner may be apprehended and imprisoned if he/she does not cooperate in clarifying his/her identity, if there are concrete points of view in order to assume that he/she will avoid the initiation of the posting, or if he/she does not comply with the notification requirement or with the place of residence requirement. Of course, it is always up to the court to assess whether there is a basis for imprisonment. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that a child has the right to express his or her views freely. Therefore, I am pleased that there is now a possibility that conversations can be conducted with children even if the parents do not agree to it, and that the child also has the right to speak without the parents present.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1487	The Christian People's Party believes that it has seen a trend over time where Norwegian authorities increasingly seem to want to use detention as part of their foreign policy. I just want to remember that it is not illegal to seek asylum. It is a fundamental human right to apply for protection. People applying for international protection must not be treated as criminals in the first place. Among those who are today being denied their asylum application in Norway, there are also people who, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, are entitled to international protection. It is a reminder that the treatment of refugees requires great vigilance on the part of the Norwegian authorities in order not to put people in a hopeless situation. We who have never experienced escape as the only way out, are not quite able to get into the conglomerate of problems and difficult choices that need to be made, and which may later have serious consequences. Then it is not all that slips easily, or fits with our legislation and regulations in this area. The Christian People's Party sees as a major dilemma in the matter we are dealing with now is what goes on in the prison of children. Tomorrow, the Stortinget will have to deal with Prop. 135 L for 2010–2011 on changes in the criminal law in relation to children and punishment. The changes adopted in that case will also affect the detention of children under the Foreign Affairs Act. In some situations, it is also possible to react with prison to minor foreigners. I have noticed that a joint judicial committee writes in its comments that they ‘have as their main objective the raising of children and young people out of crime’ and that ‘the legislative proposal presented will help to improve the legal position of young people’. Under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, detention against children is only to be used as a last resort, and then for the shortest possible time. Children are particularly vulnerable. Therefore, an even greater emphasis needs to be placed on the concept of ‘best for children’. I Prop. 138 L, which we are now dealing with, is also used the wording that ‘children can only be apprehended and imprisoned when ‘especially required’. If prison is used, this must be done in a way that best meets children’s needs, e.g.: the place where children are placed. The Children’s Ombudsman has been aware in his comments that police arrests are unsuitable for children. It concerns both the conditions of the arrest, the length of the stay and the follow-up while they are there. According to the Department, families with children are almost exclusively affected in cases where rapid transport is possible. If it turns out that transportation cannot take place the day after the attack, the family will almost always be released from Trandum, rather than requesting a prison report from the court. Incarceration needs to be facilitated for children. Families who have been imprisoned must be accommodated separately to ensure adequate privacy. Minors shall be able to participate in games and leisure activities appropriate to the age of the child and shall have access to education, depending on the length of their stay. The Christian People's Party agrees that extending the police's access to coercive measures against foreigners who conceal their identity, avoid deportation or crime is an act to maintain public confidence in the institution of asylum and to contribute to more effective foreign controls, including easier return of persons with rejection. The fact that those who commit criminal acts are both to be imprisoned and subsequently expelled is a natural consequence of their having committed serious crimes in this country. When it comes to identity, I refer you to what I said at the beginning of the post, that people on the run can make some choices that have consequences for them later. But I assume, and I expect, that thorough investigations exclude the expulsion of refugees with real protection needs. I hope that the Minister of Justice can confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1510	I take the floor on this matter for two purposes. Firstly, I would like the Stortinge to adopt the provision that the Left has presented. Secondly, I would like the Storting to vote down the proposals in the vote on increased access to prison as regards changing the terminology ‘distinct reason to suspect’ to ‘concrete points of view for adoption’. The rest of the proposals are okay, but I believe that the terminology and the degree of probability need not be changed. First, why I want the Storting to adopt the proposal from the Left. Today, the criminal proceedings are to be brought as soon as possible, and at the latest within three days. In the Foreign Affairs Act, this is different. The grip shall be made here by the day following at the latest. This is very unfortunate, and I see no reason why the Rules of Procedure of the Foreign Affairs Act should differ from the Criminal Procedures Act in this area. To present the seized one to the court the following day leads to further work for the courts and the police. Sometimes, after being apprehended, the foreigner shall leave the country within three days. Nevertheless, prison is still required today. Judicial control is necessary, but it is not necessary for him to leave the country within three days and the conditions are fulfilled. The left considers it sensible to introduce a three-day rule, both to avoid clearly unnecessary prison meetings and because we believe that there should be the same rules in the Foreign Affairs Act and the Criminal Procedures Act at this point. The Criminal Procedures Act allows people to be imprisoned for up to three days, while illegal foreigners who have not complied with the time limit must be imprisoned the next day. The Left’s legislative proposal will help to make the police and courts more effective. I can't see that this change will go beyond legal certainty, because longer arrests will have to be controlled by the courts anyway. Although we give the police the opportunity and the freedom to hold on for three days, it is obvious that this access does not have to be used. So why do I think we should vote against the proposal in the vote to change the terminology "disputed reason to suspect" to "concrete points of view to adopt". In the Criminal Procedures Act, the terminology ‘distinct reason to suspect’ is very well incorporated. In fact, the term is also used in today's law on foreigners. I would say that in the cases where the police are asking for imprisonment under the Foreign Affairs Act, the conditions are usually always met. At least that's my experience, both in my current job as a police attorney in the Foreign Affairs Department and as a former defender. I'm sure the police won't begin to apprehend and jail any more even if we now lower the requirements for imprisonment, because that's not where the problem lies. The problem is that there are no prison grounds. I think the police have the permits needed to prison, and we should strive for equality in law. There is no reason why a foreigner should be less likely to be imprisoned than to be imprisoned under the Criminal Procedures Act. As I said, from a police point of view, it is not necessary for a prison threshold to be lowered. I'm actually really unsure whether the majority of the Storting really want to lower the threshold before you can start apprehending foreigners. I hope the National Assembly can stand for certain minimum principles and make us spokespersons for equality of law. I still believe that a debate in this Chamber should be able to change the views of representatives with good arguments. But I have learned that debates in the Chamber are sometimes held for the sake of the debate – the representatives vote as they have decided in advance. But I hope, at least today, that, on the basis of the reasons I have given for the Left's proposal, the Stortinget can nevertheless adopt this proposal. I hope the representatives can also reconsider what they had previously intended to vote, so that we do not change the terminology in the Foreign Affairs Act. You ask defense lawyers today, they'll tell you that it's like no one is going to let go of prison when the police ask for it under the Foreign Affairs Act, and it's actually not that far from the truth. It's because it's not hard to prove cause of suspicion. It is always available whether the alternative conditions are met. If we adopt this law, it's just to show that we're doing something tough to foreigners. In fact, the proposals of the Left will be more effective. We should help to maintain a level playing field in the laws of the Ministry of Justice and in the cases of prisons. We should require a certain degree, a minimum, of indemnity before imprisonment can be imposed. The size must be clear that there is something more to be done before we use power – even if it is to non-residents. I'll bring this up on the Left's proposal. The second paragraph of Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act, the third sentence of which is replaced by the following: ‘For the police to keep the affected person, he must be brought before the courts with a request for imprisonment as soon as possible and no later than three days after the arrest.’ I appeal to the reason and the ability of the other parties' representatives to change their position and vote against the setting of the points in which they wish to change the term 'distinct grounds for suspicion' to 'concrete points of view for adoption' and vote for the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1542	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1546	I note with satisfaction that the central proposals for changes in Prop. 141 L to ensure children's right to be heard and, among other things, replacing the term ‘race’ by ‘ethnicity’, ‘bringing’ and ‘skin colour’ is supported by the entire Committee. I Prop. 138 L has submitted proposals to the Government for extended provisions for the imprisonment and other use of coercive measures on a foreign legal basis. The measures to those who do not cooperate in identifying the identity, or which are specific points of view in order to assume that they will not be implemented, contribute to more effective foreign controls and to making it easier for authorities to obtain the dispatch of persons who have been refused. As a result of challenges faced by asylum seekers and persons who are illegally staying who commit crimes while in Norway, it is also proposed to extend access to such persons under the Foreign Affairs Act to use coercive measures. There are also serious challenges for non-residents that pose a threat to fundamental national interests. The proposal therefore includes a new prison option for such persons in cases where an active deployment process is underway. It is important to maintain public confidence in the asylum system that the legislation does not set any narrower limits for the use of coercive measures than is necessary and appears to be proportionate on the basis of an overall assessment. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to detain all those who have not clarified their identity, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the vast majority of asylum seekers lack clear evidence of their identity when they report as asylum seekers to the police, and that in many cases there are also good reasons for this. It would be disproportionately unnecessary and, in addition, very costly to imprison people on this basis. A good part also provides documents or information confirming the identity, later in the asylum procedure. In this context, I also recall that the EU Asylum Procedures Directive prohibits EU Member States from having rules on the detention of asylum seekers solely on the basis that they have applied for asylum. This is a principle which I believe is of course that Norway too should follow. Since the members of the Progress Party have referred to practices in Denmark, I would also point out that residents of ordinary Danish asylum recipients have the right to come and go as they please. Under the Danish law, it is, in a similar way as in Norwegian law, a prerequisite for the use of closed reception in the case of identity cases that the foreigner revisits or conceals the identity, possibly providing incorrect information. In particular, as a result of the proposal for extended rules on detention, it is necessary to increase the capacity of the International Police on Trandum. As previously informed to Stortinget in Prop. 18 S for 2011-2012, two new module buildings will be established on Trandum. I want to inform you that this construction process seems to be likely to be somewhat delayed in relation to the original plans. Module building 1 appears to be operational from February 2012, while module building 2, which will include a specially adapted compartment for families, lone minor asylum seekers and lone women, scheduled for the first half of 2012, may be delayed until the second half of 2012. With regard to the observation by the member of the Christian People’s Party that there are a number of asylum seekers with a refusal in Norway who, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, are entitled to international protection, this comment may give a misleading impression that not all asylum seekers are given a satisfactory assessment. I would like to stress that the general recommendations of the High Commissioner on protection are given great importance in Norwegian practice. However, it is the Norwegian authorities — and not the High Commissioner — who assess and decide on the individual asylum case. This is done through a thorough individual treatment in both UDI and UNE. The High Commissioner has publicly expressed his confidence in the Norwegian procedure, including: when the High Commissioner commented on the situation of the sultry Ethiopian asylum seekers in spring. I am pleased that there is also broad support in the Committee on the proposals for extended provisions for the use of coercive measures. Last: With regard to the proposal from the Left, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Department of Proposition has announced that it will continue to work to consider a proposal for an extended manufacturing period in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1581	In Section 106g of the proposal for a legislative text, it is proposed that a foreigner be apprehended and imprisoned when ‘the foreigner poses a threat to fundamental national interests’, etc. We have – and have had – one thing going on in the media, which the media mentions as the Krekar case. Without now asking the Council of State to go into individual matters, I would ask her if she sees the possibility of using this paragraph in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1586	It is the police who will be responsible for deciding who can be requested to be imprisoned, and it is the court who decides. That is why, as the representative pointed out, I will refrain from having an opinion on specific individual matters. The European Convention on Human Rights only permits the detention of persons who are subject to a broadcasting process and, therefore, initially, persons protected from return cannot be imprisoned. In general, however, I would like to point out that the European Convention on Human Rights only allows imprisonment if a deployment process is in progress, and therefore there will only be an exceptional basis for imprisonment in cases where the foreigner is protected from expulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1591	First, I would like to welcome the Council of State to the debate with the Municipal and Administrative Committee. I hope for good cooperation in the time that remains of this period. What the Council of State made clear in its statement was in many ways reassuring. It is true that there is a postponement on Trandum in relation to expanding capacity, but it is important that it should be put in place if it is to have the effect of these legislative changes. So the next question is whether the Council of State has started work — or continues to work for its predecessor — on setting up return agreements with several countries. It has been pointed out several times that this work is in progress, that some agreements have been concluded, but that some remain. What means will the Council of State use to force agreements with countries which are not at all interested in setting up agreements on the return of their own nationals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1600	The work on return agreements is important, and it is of course so that I will continue the work that has been started. I have also, through another office, been close to the challenges such agreements can pose. This is Afghanistan, a country with which we now have an agreement. I think according to the last count, 28 agreements are in place. So I can assure the representative that this will have great attention from the undersigned also in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1605	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very good for the Minister of Justice to take such a clear distance from the proposal of the Progress Party to close almost all those who are seeking asylum. It's really making asylum seekers basically criminals, and they're not. The Minister of Justice explained the construction on Trandum and said that module 2 could be somewhat delayed. This is a place where you can also imagine the internment of families with children. But what I could imagine challenging the Minister of Justice on is, what's going to happen before you go to the step of incarceration? And does the Minister of Justice think of a kind of time limit for how long children should have to sit in closed reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1612	Yes, I imagine that these are exceptional cases, but where it is nevertheless important for the Norwegian authorities to have a code that ensures the implementation of legally adopted decisions. I can promise the representative that I will be thoroughly involved in these provisions, also considering that in real life they actually include children. This is a theme that has also been highlighted by the government, and we will also come back to that in the case of lone minor asylum seekers and children in a refugee situation. So I hope to have the opportunity to discuss this on a broad basis on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1617	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1622	Now I was really going to take for myself Prop. 141 L, but the most important thing in that proposition is precisely what many people have had in mind that it strengthens children's rights. It was well commented on by the representative Karin Andersen, and the parties also agree on that, so I think I'm not really going to say what I was going to say. A quick comment on the proposal of the representative Raja: Now the Council of State has informed that it has actually been assessed in relation to the proposition, and an elected one to postpone it. These included: because there was a cost question that was not investigated, where the Directorate of Police has pointed out that legal aid must be granted at a slightly earlier stage of the process of that proposal, but that was perhaps what was a bit provocative of the representative Raja. But we're going to get back to that question. Then there was a Right Request for Return Agreements. The Council of State was also involved in this. There are five to six times as many return agreements now as it was in 2005. That time it was five. So the impatience of the Right is good, but this government is the one who has delivered in that area. Then I want to spend some time on Christian People's Party posts and comments, because I think there are some slightly eye-catching assertions in the minority comments of the Christian People's Party in this matter, which should be commented on. The Christian People's Party, first of all, claims that the legal security of foreigners is weakened, and I think that is a claim that should be coated with facts. Does the Christian People's Party really think that it is a weakening of legal certainty to get a warrant to detain foreigners who commit criminal acts? Secondly, the Christian People's Party believes that in this case there is a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights' Double Punishment, despite the fact that this point has been thoroughly investigated in the proposition. What is it on which the Christian People's Party builds its opposite conclusion? I also think it should be possible to give a concrete answer to that question. Thirdly, the Christian People's Party claims that the government deliberately commits to breaking the Children's Convention by putting up for the imprisonment of children on a general basis, as the comment is formulated. It is therefore stated in the proposal that the same rules for the imprisonment of children apply in the Foreign Affairs Act as in the Criminal Procedures Act, and the representative Bekkewold himself argued that tomorrow we should deal with a matter where the requirement is strengthened from ‘especially required’ to ‘compulsory’. It will also apply in foreign matters. Fourthly, the Christian People's Party is taking the UN High Commissioner for the claim that Norway is largely breaking international conventions. Why, then, do representatives of the High Commissioner say that the refugee provisions of the new Norwegian law are an example for Europe and the world? There could be several examples of this. I think it is rather a bad claim that many people in Norway are being rejected who, according to the UN High Commissioner, have a right to international protection – I think that should be borne in mind too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1639	Those who exploit the asylum system and come to Norway to commit crime represent a major challenge in several ways. Crime and the insecurity it creates are a major problem in itself. At the same time, this helps to weaken people's confidence in the institution of asylum and the reputation of asylum seekers most. It's a problem. The opening up of the asylum institution may over time undermine the ability of refugees to seek and obtain protection. Earlier this year, the police presented figures showing that every day they attack two people selling drugs at Akerselva, Oslo. Half of these did not have a legal residence in Norway, many of them being apprehended several times. In an interview with NTB, police officer Bjørn Vandvik said: ‘The group that has been refused asylum is the most difficult. We don't know who they are, and it takes a lot of work to figure out where they come from." In 2010, 189 people from the open doping environment in Oslo were put on the plane and sent out by Norway. People from Algeria, Nigeria and Somalia top the list. Today's legal changes will make the police job easier and help increase the security of people living in this vulnerable part of Oslo and elsewhere. It is gratifying that all parties and an overall committee are in favour of the proposed legislative amendments. The remarks, however, break some of them, and I have to comment briefly on the Progress Party. I listened with great interest to the representative Ørsal Johansen's explanation of why the Progress Party is not involved in the comment on imprisonment, and I didn't get much wiser about it. A fundamental principle of the rule of law is that the authorities must have a reason to detain people. Prisoning is the most invasive form of coercion we have against individuals, and it is usually a violation of criminal provisions that gives access to prison. An overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, stresses that one can believe is a matter of course: that being an asylum seeker in itself does not provide a basis for imprisonment. On the contrary, it is a human right to seek asylum. What's really the reason why the Progress Party wouldn't be involved in such a natural observation? Does this mean that the party thinks it is right to imprison people without any justification other than that they have sought protection in Norway? Is it okay for the law-and-order party to break international law with open eyes? People applying for international protection shall not be treated as criminals. But criminals who exploit the institution of asylum to commit criminal acts must be treated as just what they are — criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1654	First, I just need to attach some words to Prop. 141 L. There is therefore a great deal of consensus – mostly – in the Committee on the amendments that have been discussed in this matter. Proposal for a decision to the Act § 81 deals with the right of children to be heard, a right that we know both from the Children's Act and the Child Protection Act, and which we almost take as a matter of course. Therefore it is positive that it now comes as a separate paragraph in the Foreign Affairs Act. And it is clearly said that if the child so wishes and it is necessary to safeguard the child’s right to be heard, a conversation shall be conducted with the child, even if the parents do not agree. It also follows the basic principle of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard in matters relating to them. It is important that the foreign administration develops good child consultation procedures. After all, the purpose of the child consultation must be to clarify the child’s situation and to assess whether the child has an independent need for protection. Replacing the word ‘race’ with the terms ‘ethnicity’, ‘bringing’ and ‘skin color’ also appears to be a Christian People’s Party a straightforward change. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Association of Advocates has pointed out that the proposal will break with the five grounds for persecution and will be a step towards a curious interpretation of the Convention on Refugees, but the Ministry stresses that the proposal is not intended to involve any change in reality compared to the law in force. Only a change of concept is made and it will not give rise to interpretability. The fact that the proposal for the entry into force of the provision of Section 108 of the Act on Legal Humanitarian Aid to Foreigners residing here illegally is now being implemented is good, it is tidy and a clear advantage instead of waiting for the entry into force of the new Penal Code. Otherwise, the representative Lise Christoffersen here in the Chamber has asked some questions to the Christian People's Party and about our comments. I just want to point out that this with the imprisonment of children has been a dilemma for the Christian People's Party – simply because under Norwegian law we have a lower criminal lavalier for children. Children under the age of 16 are protected by child protection. I cannot see that the principle is at all pointed out in this matter. Otherwise, as far as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is concerned, I just want to remind Lise Christoffersen of what the Christian People's Party raised of questions when we had the first coercive broadcast to Iraq, to areas to which the UN High Commissioner for Refugees gave clear warnings against sending people to, as just one example. Then we could also have talked about returning to Greece, as we were still doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1665	I want to concentrate on hearing children in foreign affairs. It is now positive that it facilitates the clarification of foreign affairs about children’s right to be heard on an independent basis. The proposal states: ‘If the child so wishes and it is necessary to exercise the right of the child to be heard, the body preparing or deciding the case may decide that a conversation shall be conducted with the child even if the parents do not agree. Similarly, it may be decided that a conversation shall be conducted with the child without the parents being allowed to be present.» It is further stated that a child’s seat should be appointed when parents are not present, the exception is if the child has another proxy. The proposal for a legislative act clarifies the child’s own right to be heard. It may in some cases be important from the point of view of the right that the conversation can be conducted without the consent of the parents and without the presence of them. The proposal harmonises and permits the legal principle of the child’s right to express his/her views — principle as enshrined in the administrative law and based on similar principles in Article 12 of the Children’s Convention. This makes the administration's duty under the Children's Convention visible in order to ensure that the administration ensures that the child's views are expressed and taken into consideration. This is positive. It is gratifying that the child comes into focus in these matters by clarifying its purpose, ‘to safeguard the child’s right to be heard’, as it is called. The purpose is also to ‘explain the child’s situation and to clarify whether the child may have an independent asylum basis’. It is worth noting that the hearing authorities are upsetting the changes in clarifying the child’s right to speak in foreign affairs as other matters relating to them. Not least, such calls may in exceptional cases reveal e.g. abuse and serious care failure, including coerciveness and sexual mutilation. Children in such circumstances will be dependent on being self-contained without parents. Any concerns shall be handled in a defence-related manner, as set out in the Annex to this Regulation. the foreign legislation, with the obligation to notify the child protection authorities, as is the case for other matters and administrative bodies. I refer here to the corresponding reporting obligation in the child protection legislation, which is also added in e.g. the reception of asylum;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1681	If I understood the Council of State there that they would consider the proposal from the Left, I am very pleased about it. But I hope they can still adopt the proposal that has been put forward, because I think there are good reasons for doing so. When the Labour Party representative objected to the police director's objection that there are some costs involved in the appointment of the defence, I would just like to inform you that when the police go to court with a prison case, a defender has to be appointed. That's what the District Court does. If we now extend the right to arrest foreigners before going to the court to have them imprisoned, to three days, it is not the case that the police have to use the three days. We're just saying that they have liberality to do where there should be a need for it. If you are concerned about your budgets, you can continue your practice as before and go to court and get a prison report. This means moving the money over to another public budget. But that's not why we're here. I believe that we should be able to take the necessary action, so that the police around can get more liberal, so that you don't get overburdened with bureaucracy. It is true that if you attack a person today and it is planned that he will be out tomorrow, but then you will not get it for any reason, and it will be moved to the next day, you will have to jail him under the Foreign Affairs Act, because it does not provide that flexibility. If you have the flexibility, if you miss the plane, or something was wrong with the identity, or if you go against it, then you have to be two to transport out, etc., whatever it is, you have the freedom. I believe that the Left's proposal will also give us greater equality in the two laws that use prison today, the Criminal Procedures Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. So to lower the requirement for imprisonment under the Foreign Affairs Act. I'm very surprised that especially SV, who often makes up for a certain group of people in society, wants to lower the demands for the imprisonment of foreigners, and to the extent that the Christian People's Party will participate in the same. For the Left, it is not essential whether or not it is about foreigners, refugees, asylum seekers. What's crucial for us is that we have to have an equality in the law. The term ‘distinct suspicion’ is a very well-informed part of both the Criminal Procedures Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. I can't see that there's a single reason why we're going to change that terminology, that probability, which we already have in the law today, beyond consistency – that we've now decided before we came to the main hall to vote that way, and then it doesn't matter what we hear from arguments or counter-arguments, because we've decided from before – that we're now going to lower the evidence requirements to prison foreigners. Once again – as I did initially – I want to appeal to the representatives' reason and the ability to change their position. Changing the position is not necessarily a weakness; on the contrary, it can actually be a strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1692	A little bit back to Prop. 141 L and what goes on talking to children. I'm glad that more people here are concerned about it and have taken it up from the pulpit today. It's like kids need special protection, even against their parents, no matter where they come from and what background they have. What is also fine, and which is at the heart of the matter, is that it is clarified that the obligation of professional secrecy should be lifted to a certain extent, so that no individual employee can hide behind the obligation of professional secrecy in the event of detection and suspicion of child abuse. This is a very positive view of the Progress Party. When we go back to Prop. 138 L, we've got some criticism because we're not in a comment. We've chosen to stand out of the comment. I point out that it is not a proposal we have, but we are outside a comment to ensure that we may be able to promote such a proposal, which we may possibly be able to do, and which we actually have the opportunity to do under Article 14 of the ECHR, where it is actually opening up to prison. So I want to reassure those here in the Chamber who criticize the Progress Party because we are not making any proposals. I can reassure you that we are going to make suggestions, our own Document 8 proposals, concerning DNA, about prisons, and about appeals. So you can take it easy. Finally, I would just like to say that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats thinks that the proposal from the Left is a good one. It has been omitted from the debate now, but now that the Left is promoting the proposal, the Progress Party will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1701	The President shall draw attention to the fact that all speeches shall be addressed to the President. Then the next speaker is Eirik Sivertsen. The representative Eirik Sivertsen is the last recorded speaker so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1706	It might be tempting to point out to the representative Johansen that it would have been possible to get the suggestions in relation to the matters we are dealing with, instead of getting them in a separate round. My concern today is primarily to respond to that challenge and to the strong appeals of the representative Raja relating to the Left's proposal. I would like to point out that, as also stated in the proposal, one of the main challenges is effective immigration control related to the work on the ID clearance. There are also strong challenges in enforcing an effective return policy. Access to coercive measures is an important element in the enforcement of the policies to be pursued and in ensuring effective foreign control and return policy. It is also apparent from the proposition that, as the representative may at some point have suggested, there are no obstacles to international law in order to have a lower probability requirement than a probability overweight in terms of ID doubt or avoidance hazard. For example, the proposition also shows that both Sweden and Finland have such requirements. Then I would like to stress that objective criteria should also be used for possible imprisonment. I want to add on my own account that when we talk about presentation in court, I think it's just a point to hold on to one day when we now lower the requirements to a lower level than in other cases, where there are three days. Then, of course, the representative Raja has strongly appealed to the other representatives' senses. I choose not to perceive it in such a way that the representative doubts our reasoning. However, the Council of State also indicated in its statement that the proposal promoted by the Left was not being consulted and that it was further assessed in the Ministry. She also founded why it was like this. On this basis, the Labour Party will not support the proposals of the Left at this time. We also perceive that it makes sense to do so in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1719	I perceived it as a clear call from the President, when the representative Eirik Sivertsen was called up, that it was desirable for more people to sign up, so he did not become the last in the debate. I'm not going to abuse the time of the Greatness, I'm just going to briefly reproduce to the representative Becquerading about the examples that were used by the Christian People's Party to prove that we are violating human rights, and that one can take UNHCR to income for it. With regard to the restrictions implemented in 2009, it was such that a significant part of them went from having a group assessment to having an individual assessment. They went from saying that individuals should be granted asylum in Norway only because they were from one geographical area to assess the individual’s situation, while the recommendations made by UNHCR are, of course, general recommendations. There are Norwegian authorities dealing with the individual cases after thorough assessments in both UDI and UNE, and those assessments attach high importance to UNHCR’s general recommendations on protection. In order to ensure that these recommendations are precisely emphasised, the Government has also laid down in the Foreign Regulation that, as a general rule, practice must be tested through a specific thorough treatment in the UN if it is appropriate to derogate from the UNHCR recommendations on protection. There are several examples of UNHCR opinions that do not claim to be what the representative Bekkevold claims, namely that Norway violates international obligations – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1730	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1733	Of course, I have no doubt about any of the representatives, but sometimes you think that the representatives of big business are remote from reality, and that what you decide has nothing but a purely symbolic meaning. And that's what you're going to do now. Lowering the demands to deport people from a lack of reason to suspicion to specific points of view will have no real impact on the police's work with regard to the imprisonment of foreigners. So until that representative Sivertsen said about international legal objections. I didn't mention anything about it. I believe that this has nothing to do with human rights. We're talking about equality in the law. We should strive for equality in the law with regard to the two laws that we are talking about here, which the Minister of Justice is going to have under his department. We should have certain minimum principles before we go to the grip of getting into prison. There should be cause for suspicion and some likelihood of overweighting. In this case, for dubious reasons of suspecting false identity, it's actually already part of the law. Every day foreigners are imprisoned because it's ID doubt. I maintain the proposal and still believe that the proposal is somewhat further away from reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1742	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[See pages 1145 and 1147]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1758	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1767	The Norwegian Sports Association celebrates its 150th anniversary this year. As the country's largest voluntary organisation with 2.1 million members, we want to make a start on them today through treatment with a gift. It is to be done through a lottery draw under the direction of Norwegian Typing on the first weekend in January. This is the same weekend that the Sports Association arranges its annual sports gallery. Since such a gift would affect the statutory key for the Norwegian Typing surplus, a temporary legislative change is necessary. In the government's proposal, it is proposed that the lottery be distributed so that 50 pst. is allocated according to the usual key, while the second half is given to the Norwegian Sports Federation. In a regular game round, the gift will amount to approx. $14 million. kr. Both the Norwegian Tippings and the Norwegian Sports Association are now working on a special promotion of the draw, which will be on Saturday 7 January. We can therefore expect that the turnover for this game round will be significantly higher – and therefore also the gift. In its observations on the matter, the Progress Party is concerned that this temporary amendment will create a precedent for other players who receive funds to achieve the same thing later. If you know the story of Norwegian Typing, you'll see that it's completely out of date. In fact, the Norwegian Sports Association was one of the founders of Norsk Tipping in 1947. At the foundation, the Norwegian Sports Association owned 40 pst., the state 40 pst. and Norway’s Football Association 20 pst. The surplus was then distributed between sport and science. Only in 1986 did culture enter the key, and as late as 2005 non-profit organisations became part of the key. So the Norwegian Sports Association is one of the founders of Norsk Tipping, and this way of financing the gift will show the close historical ties that have existed between Norway’s sports federation and Norsk Tipping for over 60 years. It is also a great way to remind the Norwegian people that Norwegian Typing has two important purposes: to finance sport, culture and volunteering through the achievement of these objectives by ensuring a responsible gambling policy that is consistent with the fact that the games offered do not lead to gambling madness; The Norwegian Sports Association is a very important player in Norwegian society. With its 2.1 million members and 11,936 sports teams, it is represented in all the municipalities of the country and engages very many children and young people in various sporting activities. In recent years, the association has focused on the absence of youth. That is why, like the government, we in the UK want the gift to go on and strengthen Norway's sports federation's commitment to youth. That is why the majority in this room will today support the temporary amendment of the law, so that it will be possible in the first round of games in 2012 to give a gift to the Norwegian Sports Association, which they really deserve for the efforts they have made for, not least children and young people over many generations. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Norwegian Sports Association on its 150th anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1791	Let me just start where the last speaker ended, by congratulating Norway's sports association on the 150th anniversary. It's really in the right place. There is no doubt that the Norwegian Sports Association is doing a fantastic job, and they have done so for generations. Sport has an enormous importance in Norwegian society, and an excellent job is done throughout the country in this way. Now, of course, it is nice to record that you want to give Norwegian sport a gift. The best gift you can give is something that the receiver really needs. If the receiver needs about 15 million. kr as this is going to be, or if the need is much bigger, yeah, then probably the last absolute case. What Norwegian sport needs is a real bet, a real promise, and for the future, changing the framework conditions so that you get funds that are in line with what is needed. What has been seen over many years is that the demand for funding sports facilities around Norway has increased considerably. There are many sports facilities that are not realized, and a lot of them are due. What sport needs is a real economic boost. Unfortunately, there is no majority for that in this Chamber. What you put up on the government's side, and what the majority here supports, is a symbolic gift, I'd say, for sport, for which someone else pays the bill. It's like the other volunteer organizations are involved and pay that bill when you change the key. These include: The rescue company and the Red Cross and other organisations that will get less when making this change. I think that's sad, all the time these organizations under this government so until those degrees have been losers. You give gifts to someone and take from others who have already been deprived of their funds under this government. What should have been done was to change the distribution key with regard to the tipping agent. Had it been based on the proposal we made in this room, which was dealt with about 14 days ago, and changed the key, Norwegian sport would have been given about. 1⁄2 billion. kr more in increased funds – without anyone else having to pay that bill. At the same time, we had made sure to compensate for this by changing the distribution of the government budget to other voluntary teams and organisations. That way, you'd only had winners, to use sports language. So this isn't a majority in this room that wants to be on. I have to say that it is disappointing, but the other parties want to wait for the sports message. This is despite the fact that the national assembly of the Workers' Party has moved in to change the key, and despite the fact that both the Right and the Centre have expressed their support for that change. But you're no more active than waiting for the government to deliver the sports message. This is going to happen through Norwegian Typing. What we had seen was that an extra pull was carried out, but you don't have the capacity or the technical solutions that make it possible. I must say, I'm very surprised. But when you look at the crushing criticism Norsk Tipping has received – over the year – from the Riksrevision, I guess I'm not so surprised. It seems almost like Norwegian Tipping has lived a little in its own technological world in many ways and has not complied with the regulations and requirements that apply when it comes to getting a tender. As a result, technological development has also been lagging behind, which means that one is unable to change or have a flexibility to carry out extras if desired. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1808	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1811	This is a joyous thing, and we shouldn't pour too much wormwood in the beggar. It doesn't deserve it. It's for the right two things hanging in the air. One is a question, and the other is a suggestion. The question is, how in the world can it be that Norwegian Typing is unable to carry out a 53rd trek? It is probably well explained, but I have to say that there are some questions in the air around it, which we have not received any good answer to. Then I could also be miserable and ask if the council had not checked this before she promised me an extra trek. So I'm not supposed to be, but frankly: Norwegian Tipping has an army of people with technical competence in this area. It is strange that you have not received a proper answer, that you have not clarified this in advance. It could have prevented us from driving into this kind of stupid track like this, which was initially just a good thing, having come in. The trace we've come into is simply that the gift we give is paid by others – it gets a bit of a character of it. It's the other purposes that will then suffer from that we're now changing the key for this one draw. It wouldn't have been like this if it had been an extra draw. That is why the Right has made a proposal, not as a proposal for this matter, but as a signal that is to be perceived as an invitation to the Stortinge for how we can do this in a slightly easier way. We're signaling that we're going to find $15 million in the context of the ejaculation. kr that we put into this pot, and then we suggest that the draw is done after the key that applies. Of course, there should be an anniversary campaign, of course Norsk Typing and the sport should carry out their project with extra premiums – they have a lot of plans on how to do this. It thinks the Right should go as planned. But we'll find $15 million. If we add the number here, we'll be able to add it. The sport would have a nice upside, and also the other purposes here would have a nice greeting if the turnover increased. It'll be all right. We have had discussions earlier this fall, including: about the rescue company, which tells us that there is also a need for funds. I am absolutely sure that such a grip would not cause that there would be less attention around the sport. It's a purely planning question. I noticed that the right is not part of the setting. It's an incurrency. We support the proposal for a vote. But the wording is that the government does not have to take advantage of the occasion of this change of residence. Now, what's given is an opportunity for the government to change the key for this one draw. We support the setting. We give the government that opportunity, but we hope that the parties at Stortinget will be part of the new aging process and find the $15 million. kr which means that the government does not need to avail itself of this option but that they can add the 15 million. kr into the pot and find a smooth solution that allows us to have a party on 7 January where a lot of nice money comes in for the 150th anniversary of the sport – we are happy for all of us – without having to hang a bismach with them who then actually get a little less money. I notice that there has not been any very great uproar in the committee on this matter yet. I think this might be related to the fact that you think you would cancel the entire scheme that Norsk Tipping and Norwegian sports have planned. So we don't mean that. Then we hope you get a little bit more chewed on this until the treatment of the ejaculation, and then we find a better solution. It's an invitation from the Right to the government parties and to the other parties in the opposition that I hope you'll join.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1828	The Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee – NEF – are 150 years old in 2011. NIF is, of course, an important player in civil society and the largest voluntary organisation in Norway with more than 2 million members. The association is represented in all the municipalities of the country and engages very many children and young people in various activities. In recent years, there has been a strong focus on youth withdrawals, and the government wants to celebrate a gift that can help to continue and strengthen the involvement of the Sports Association in youth. So I want to mark the occasion by giving connected half of the profit from a separate lottery draw. Norwegian Typing translates for approx. 70 million. kr in an ordinary lottery round. After deduction of gains and other expenses, 25 million are normally still to be recovered. kr for distribution according to the key. It is proposed that the profit in the current lottery round be distributed so that 50 pst. of the surplus is due to TIF in gift, while 50 pst. be broken down by the ordinary key. However, turnover in the game round in question is expected to be higher than normal turnover. The size of the triangle will only be clear when the triangle is held. So it's been talking about why you don't add up to an extra game round. As far as system development is concerned, everything is technically possible, but it also has a cost. We have obtained figures for these costs, both the marketing costs and the technical costs of reprogramming. We've considered them too big. If Norsk Tipping were to carry out an extra round, it would have to reprogram the system of all the commissioners, and that would lead to some extra costs. That's why it would cost too much in relation to what's the point of Norwegian Typing, that's that the profit is going to go for the purposes. That's a good idea, which we've looked at more carefully. It's technically possible, but it'll cost too much. It has nothing to do with the fact that Norsk Tipping does not have enough technology – they have very good technology – but it has to be safe. As of today, it is not professionally sound to do so. We believe it is important, however, to introduce an extra round and not to give money in the scrapping process, because we also want to pay attention to the Norwegian Typing game and the good purposes for which Norsk Typing's game goes. That is why we believe that this is the best solution. If there was to be an extra draw in addition to the ordinary lottery draw, it would require a large investment cost in terms of technical implementation and marketing, which I had in mind. I see, like the majority of the committee, that the solution chosen is the most appropriate, both in terms of the choice of the drawing model, and that we have chosen to finance the gift through a special trek instead of financing the gift of the government budget. I am sure that we have chosen the option that will, as far as possible, have positive ring-effects both for sport and for Norwegian Typing, while at the same time having a negative impact on the other purposes as far as possible. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has joined in the proposal to amend the Money Gambling Act. There is a good tradition in Norway that there is a large majority behind Norwegian gambling policy, and I think it is important that this tradition continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1843	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1846	I refer you to the National Audit Office's report on Norwegian Typing. My question to the Council of State is: How will she ensure that Norwegian Typing operates within legal frameworks in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1851	Of course, we'll make sure of that in all sorts of ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1856	From the statements of the Council of State, I think there might be a slight misunderstanding about the recording that the Right has made. It is possible that the remark is a little deficient, simply. I think the Council of State is looking at the Right's proposal as an alternative to having – what to say – a trek with a little extra Festivitas and extra premium around. So that's not what I'm talking about. We believe that the plans that sport and Norwegian Typing have for everything that we are now going to enjoy until 7 January must be able to go as planned – of course we believe so. But we believe that it would have been a little bit rustier and a little bit more pleasant input if we had cut some little half-chip discussions, if we had slid up the extra money that had made this really would have been a gift and not just a distribution of other people's money. Is it true that this is a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1864	I'm dealing with what we've put on the table today. I think there is a good balance between the fact that we want the money to go to NIF, to an anniversary gift, while the other purposes should not be harmful. I believe that this game round is going to bring in more revenue, so I believe that there is a very good balance between the different considerations that underlie that we should be able to give this gift to NEF.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1869	I have to say, I think it is quite amazing that the Council of State answered a serious question in the short way that she did. But the Council of State will have a new chance. I just want to quote a little bit from what's in the setting, and that comes from the Riksrevision: ‘The Court of Auditors finds it highly critical that the Ministry of Culture, which owns it, has not implemented sufficient measures to ensure that Norsk Tipping AS fully complies with the law and regulations on public acquisitions.’ Then I ask the Council of State to answer what she will do to ensure that Norwegian Typing complies with the laws and regulations that apply, and that the Council of State takes at least one minute to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1881	In the case of the Ministry of Culture's ownership of Norwegian Typing, there have been extensive treatment in Stortinget on several occasions. I myself have been present in the control committee, where we have thoroughly reviewed all kinds of conditions at Norsk Tipping. We have also had treatments in this room, where we have gone through all kinds of relationships related to Norwegian Typing in the best possible way. Bringing this into this context, I find it unworthy in view of what this discussion is about, a gift to the Norwegian Sports Association. It is that Norwegian Typing follows the laws and regulations that apply, and if there are things that the Riksrevision points to, we will correct it immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1888	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1893	Everyone will sport well, and especially when it's celebrating. The idea of the proposal is good, but we have a little different arrangements. Norwegian sports have been getting a lot of money out of media agreements for many years, and they've been getting a lot of money out of Norwegian Tipping for many years, but a lot of money doesn't mean it's good deals, and you're forward-looking. We are now granting exceptional funding for sport, and this is in connection with its anniversary. But what do we do in a year? Sport will not need less money in the future – on the contrary – and then we need to find good and smart solutions. It may seem that the solution around funding today is based on a slightly short-term approach. It's a little forward-looking, and it could be a dagger bump against Norwegian sport. Are the sports leaders in Norway serious? Does the government see the seriousness of this? The sport's main partner to date has been Norwegian Typing, because Norsk Typing has been a money machine and has provided the sport with an incredible amount of money throughout all the years. It is clear that Norwegian Typing has been important, but it is now time to look ahead. What is going on in the game market we have in Norway today? What's going on in the game market we find on the web? What's going on about those who play from home? Why can't they also be involved and contribute to Norsk Tipping? It is immoral to Norsk Typing not to let new and other players into the market. It is immoral of Norwegian sport not to let go of other actors. New actors can participate and raise sports and contribute to more money. Norwegian Typing is playing on its reserves. They spend their money, and everyone sees that less and less is paid to Norwegian sports in the future. The challenge for Norwegian sport will be future funding. There is an increasing number of professionalism in sports — and the pomps control, which can in the long run undermine the strong position of voluntary effort. There's a responsibility. In addition, the internal cohesion of sport is threatened by declining solidarity between the special federations and increased conflict with the conditions for the distribution of public funds. Yes, sport is going to meet tough days, and that's what we should be at the front. We should facilitate sport in the future. I believe that these challenges can break down the main role of sport, and that is to stand together and create good opportunities for youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1908	I just have to admit to this hall that I had enjoyed this debate today, because I thought it was a very nice thing we should do. We were actually going to celebrate Norway's sports federation and give them a gift they really deserve, and we were going to avoid a political dispute. However, the Progress Party has really suggested that we should have a political debate in this Chamber and, unfortunately, it cannot stand completely undisputed. What I find out is that in fact the only party that doesn't think Norway's sports federation is worth a gift, as well as getting money over the key, is the Progress Party. The Progress Party is the only party that will not give a gift to Norway's sports federation. And then you say yes, but it's just a symbolic gift. Yes, it's a very important symbolic gift, because through this gift we can get marketed to the entire Norwegian people in how the Norwegian Sports Federation is funded. It's through Norwegian Tipping and the fact that we play Lotto every Saturday that makes us actually get a lot of money into Norway's sports association. That's why we get a very important marketing. I understand that the Progress Party thinks it is problematic, because they do not want to market to the Norwegian people that it is the gambling monopoly in Norwegian Typing that has the important function. A party that wants to liquidate the gambling monopoly does not, of course, want us to do such a thing. Ib Thomsen now said in his speech that he believed that it was ‘imoral of Norwegian sport not to let go of other actors’ to finance Norwegian sport. Yes, who are these other actors? Well, it's international gaming companies that have headquarters in the Cayman Islands. You have to jam me into Christmas if you think that they will spend more money on Norwegian sport and on Norwegian voluntary organisations than a gambling monopoly through Norwegian Typing does. So to that with the change of key. When did the idea that we were going to change the tap key occur? Yes, it was received at the Norwegian Labour Party’s national meeting in April this year. The Progress Party promoted its Document 8 shortly after the national meeting in the Workers' Party. But the Norwegian Labour Party and the majority of the Stortinget actually have a democratic mindset. We realize that it needs some political processes to do before we can change the key. We must have respect for those organisations that are critical. And everyone who represents the Progress Party in this room can be pretty sure that there's something that's going to be done, there's a change in the key, which is going to be a big benefit to Norwegian sport. And one more thing: we also guarantee the revenue in the future through the fact that Norwegian Typing is going to have a gambling monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1919	Let me start where the representative Gjul ended. She guaranteed that sport would also receive funds in the future through the Norwegian Tipping gaming monopoly. She then foresaw that the Norwegian people have to play through Norwegian Typing, and if it was going to happen that nobody was playing there, I'd like to see how to finance this in the future. Let me also correct what the representative Gjul said that we have a political dispute. We don't. We have an exchange of views in this room. It's not a fight. It must be allowed to have different views than those of the Workers' Party. In the case of the gambling monopoly of Norwegian Typing, it is a fact that had changed the rules and allowed other companies to establish themselves in Norway, they would not have had to establish themselves abroad, as the representative Gjul pointed out. Annual Norwegian players play for a spot between 5 billion kr and 10 brd. kr in non-resident gaming companies. Had it been ensured that these companies had been given the opportunity through a licensing system to establish themselves in Norway, with a claim for dividends for sport – as a percentage of turnover – Norwegian sport would have been given much, much more than the anniversary gift added to this proposition. It is quite right, as the representative Ib Thomsen said, that there will also be a need for funding next year and the coming years for Norwegian sport. That's why we want to change the key, which we have suggested. The last time the Storting changed the key, it was just after a proposal from the Progress Party in this room. So I think the Progress Party has a lot to be proud of and a lot to point out about the proposals we have made to strengthen the economic future of sport. I will also be shown that the Joint Committee of the Associations delivered an opinion on 29 November of this year, in which they strongly criticise the government for the lack of funding for sport. Finally, I don't know exactly where to go with what I'm going to say now, but I have to say that I'm very upset about the way the Minister of Culture acts in this room. When she says that Norsk Tipping follows the laws and regulations that apply, it is contrary to what is stated in the Riksrevisions report. I look forward to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs starting to deal with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1934	This has been a clarifying discussion. Many people have spoken nicely about sport in this debate, but I am – I must say – very surprised that the Ib Thomsen of the Progress Party says that sport is immoral and will not let other players go to the game market. There is a very important reason why Norwegian sport is leading the policy they are doing. It is because we see that in countries with a completely different game policy, there is no more money for ideal purposes, but on the contrary, there are many more people who develop gambling addiction. That is why many countries in Europe look to Norway and look to Norwegian sport in the fight against gambling addiction. So I think the Progress Party here both comes with quite a rough attack on Norwegian sport – they call it immoral – and I don't think they take responsibility for this huge social problem that gambling addiction is. We know that far more people in Norway were addicted to gambling for a few years ago. Those who make contact with the help telephone today are largely dependent on international betting companies. So I believe that Norsk Tipping provides a very good framework for a responsible game policy. We have fewer gambling addicts than before, but the profit goes for good. That's why I think it's completely wrong to call the sport immoral. We have a sports movement in Norway with high ethical standards that are concerned with including children and young people, but are not engaged in making money in a way that exploits people who are addicted to gambling. I think there is respect for Norwegian sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1943	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1951	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e1959	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 8-17, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 18-23, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18-23, from the left. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of current payment practices related to action sites in the Attangling Companies and Growing Companies until 1.7.2012. It further calls on the government, in cooperation with these companies, to promote a proposal for a new and better payment practice in the context of the revised national budget for 2012.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in the daily allowance regulation § 6-6 in order to retain the daily allowance rights to 20 pst.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that the enterprise where there is agreement between employees and employers pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually allowed.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of standard health notification periods according to the Swedish model.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish, as soon as possible, an obliging escalation plan for a national minimum social assistance code. In the first instance, the Government asks the Government to increase the rate by 20 pst. in the context of the revised national budget for 2012.’» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to present an obliging escalation plan in order to strengthen the social rights of self-employed persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e2014	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative amendments in order to waive the right to a waiting wage for new cases.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e2033	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 11-17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose an alternative pension solution for the group of local staff at Norwegian foreign stations complying with the usual age pension rules from the social security system by 2012 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present legislative proposals for amendments which ensure that workers who have taken out old-age pensions from the population and continue to be active in the public sector do not receive their public service pension in conjunction with an estimated social security benefit, only actual earnings in the population’s social security up to retirement.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the rehabilitation arrangements for injured military personnel in foreign operations and for the Government to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative for this group on a war pension scheme.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment and review of the housing loan scheme to members of the State pension fund with a view to negotiating other solutions in relation to the main agreement.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the inclusion of a complaint category in the sick leave forms.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to make the test system permanent and equivalent to the system of guide dogs for blind and partially sighted.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce an annual adjustment of current pensions in line with the evolution of employees’ income.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes that result in the reduction of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners being set at 10 pst. from the first year.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to present a separate case on the gravitational aid, in which an overall review of the scheme is carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e2091	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 7 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget by June 2012 with its own case on the introduction of the Nav Ombudsman according to the model of the Patient and User Ombudsman.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government does not request any adjustment in the financing mechanism for the protected sector. Such adjustment should be seen in the context of the investigation carried out by the Brofoss Committee.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e2113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a system that allows users in very special cases to change the Nav office. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how users can be given the opportunity to change supervisors in the Employment and Welfare Act. ‘... Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the system of travel at work and education be transformed into a permanent system of social security.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the scheme of assistants be converted into a permanent system of popular security.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government's proposal to amend the system of payments for labour market measures is submitted to the Brofoss Committee, so that the Stortinget is presented with a thorough impact assessment of the government's proposals. Impact assessment is presented in the context of the revised national budget for 2012. ‘... The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e5890	The President would point out that IX is abstinence. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6144	The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8-3 shall be deleted. The third and fourth sentences are going to be the second and third sentences. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6161	It's voted on § 15-8. The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it. The voting boards showed that 90 votes were cast and 5 votes against the committee's vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.25.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6170	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6175	Then we add the representative's vote, and there are 91 votes in favour and 5 votes against. We're gonna vote for you, all the other paragraphs. There are some problems with the wetting system, so we have to be a little patient. It's not as good with technique constantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6202	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6502	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6515	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6525	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6533	During the debate, Mr Q. Raja presented a proposal on behalf of the Left. The President noted that the proposal relates to the third sentence and not to the second sentence, as stated in the proposal distributed in the seats of the representatives. Proposal No. 1, from the left, with the correction made: ‘The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act shall be replaced by the following: ‘If the police wants to keep the affected person, he must be brought before the courts with a request for imprisonment as soon as possible and no later than three days after the arrest.’» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6731	Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 103, Paragraph 104, Paragraph 105, first paragraph, paragraphs (a) and (b), Paragraph 106, first paragraph, points (a) and (b) of paragraph 103. The left has announced that they want to vote against the referenced paragraphs and points.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6746	It is then voted over I, other paragraphs and paragraphs, and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6756	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6766	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6956	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6966	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e6974	The President will draw attention to the fact that the position states that it is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. The right-hand side of the debate has stressed that the right-hand side also supports the option. Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the notified sports message to change the distribution key of the ticks in line with Document 8:144 S [[2010-2011]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian Typing operates as soon as possible in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e7018	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e7031	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e7043	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-05.ana.ud516e7101	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
