ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e126	Honourable co-representatives! Former Swedish Depositary Representative Erik Gemms-Onstad died on 18 November – 89 years old. Erik Gjems-Onstad was born in Oslo on 22 February 1922. During World War II he served in Company Linge from 1941 to 1945. He had leadership tasks in the Home Powers, and with excruciating energy he participated in and directed several actions against the occupying power. He distinguished himself by his special ability to motivate others to action. After the war, he was active in Homeland. Gems-Unstad was honored with, among others, The cross of war with swords for excellent efforts during the performance of military missions. He has also received British decorations, and was appointed Honorary Member of the Order of the British Empire. Erik Gems-Unstad became cand.jur. in 1948. He ran his own law practice for a number of years, became a Supreme Court lawyer in 1957 and was a permanent defender in Asker and Bærum the courtship from 1977 to 1992. He was, among other things, also legal consultant of the Norwegian Credit Bank and Director of A/S Faderland. In addition, he had a number of administrative duties. Gems-Onstad also had a number of trustees in the organization, especially in sports, where he made an excellent effort. Among other things, he was a member of the Norwegian Olympic Committee, he was a member of the Norwegian Sports Association, chairman of the Norwegian Gang Association and of the Norwegian Cycling Association. He was the initiator of the Trondheim–Oslo Protest, one he himself rode over 15 times. Erik Gemms-Unstad's first political office was in the Right. He was co-founder and vice president of Anders Langes Parti for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention in the period 1973-1976. Gems-Unstad was marked in the social debate with clear and sometimes controversial opinions. Gems-Onstad was the biggest representative from 1973 to 1977, elected by Akershus for Anders Langes Parti. He was the parliamentary leader of the Anders Langes Party from 1975 to the fall of 1976, when he separated layers from the party. Gems-Onstad was a member of the Financial Committee. We remember Erik Gemms-Unstad for his work in the Storting and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e147	The representative of Vigdis Giltun, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Five permit applications are available: by the representatives of Else-May Botten, Svein Roald Hansen, Morten Højlund and Harald T. Nesvik on leave on 15 and 16 December – all to attend the 8th WTO Ministerial Conference in Geneva by the Socialist Left-wing Group for sick leave for the representative Heikki Holmås as of 15 December and until further notice Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Mari Lund Arnem, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget on 15 and 16 December under the leave of the representative Heikki Holmås. The following alternates are requested to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth For More and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal and Jon Georg Dale For Oslo: Morten Dægni For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tone Liljeroth, Eva Vinje Aurdal, Jon Georg Dale, Morten Dregni and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mrs Solberg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e214	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Trond Helleland, André Oktay Dal, Frank Bakke-Jensen and myself, I have the honour of promoting proposals for enhanced action against hate and extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e219	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner: Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will inform that today’s meeting – if necessary – will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 to 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of Framework 2 under the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and Document 8:168 S for 2010–2011 on the introduction of ongoing childcare facilities, followed by Framework Area 3 under the Ministry of Culture. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e285	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the two debates be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e296	Every day we read in the media about the economic crisis in Europe. Several southern European countries are in practice at the brink of bankruptcy. Mass unemployment and social problems in Greece are to be solved with massive redundancies of public servants and even more people are forced into unemployment and social distress. This is in stark contrast to the day-to-day experience in Norway. Most people are at work, the payroll bag is growing, and we continue to expand welfare, and our budget debate is in stark contrast to the situation of our colleagues in other European countries. Where they have to make dramatic cuts in school and health, we are in the privileged situation that we can continue to build up the welfare of our people. In the evening post on Saturday 3 December, we could read the following title: ‘Women can help Europe out of economic preoccupation’. Yes, that's exactly what the Workers' Party and the government have been saying for a long time, that Norway has not become a rich country just because we have oil, but because Norwegian women are working. It's hands and heads building the country. That is why, unlike many other European countries, we have invested in high levels of professional participation among women. Equality is one of the carriers in the Norwegian model. Our whole community is built on everyone's ability to contribute and receive as needed. Everyone simply means everyone, not half, as is the case in Italy, Poland and Spain. Kindergartens, parental leave, regulated working time and rights through gender equality legislation have given us the world's highest professional participation among women, while Norwegian women have the largest number of children in Europe. Both are essential to prosperity. It's better that the whole people work and pay taxes than just half do it. Besides, it's imperative that we get a lot of kids who can keep building the country. This is precisely why it is so important that Norwegian women are not forced to choose either child or work. Equality policy is one of the main reasons Norway is going to laugh, and there is no simple rhetoric invented by the Norwegian Prime Minister. In 2007, the OECD noted that equality strengthens the long-term economy of a country. International research also shows that gender equality in the education, labour and economy strengthens GNI, competitiveness and innovation. The right side also wants to hit the chest because of what we've achieved, but every time we talk about the tools that are necessary to achieve these results, this is characterised as socialist coercion and state interference in the freedom of the individual. It's just giving Keywords like equality law, spring quota and regulated working time. In two areas of family policy, there have been major changes in favour of the family and gender equality under the red-green government. After over 40 years of fighting, we have received full child care coverage, and after a long break since 1993, we have received a new offensive for an equally equal parental leave. Men with part-time wives can now take out full birth rate, and many thousands of men have thus been entitled to papacy. Under the red-green regime, the feather quota has been extended from five to twelve weeks. Although the right-hand side doesn't want this, actually Norwegian fathers want the new right. Less than one in ten fathers take out less leave than the spring quota, and more and more take out more. Kindergartens have been the strongest bet area for the red-green government. We're going to spend 14 billion dollars. kr more in kindergartens today than six years ago. 54,000 more kids are in kindergarten. We have a statutory right to space, and the price of a nursery place has fallen sharply. The children’s surveillance survey published by the Statistical Central Bureau on 1 November shows that most parents want their children to go to kindergarten, while the parents who do not apply for kindergarten rarely state the reasons for their choice. With the maximum price, we're about to get down to a level that makes most parents feel that there's no economy that prevents them from having the kids in kindergarten. The combination of the maximum price and the regulation that obliges municipalities to give graded parental payments makes kindergartens available for almost everyone. It is obvious that this right has not understood, which will remove the maximum price and give a few extra kroner to the municipalities to get a more fine masked system, with a graduated parental payment. The consequence will be a sharp increase in the nursery price of the large majority of parents and, most likely, less use of kindergarten. In this year's budget, we make the changes to the cash support that we promised in Soria Moria II. There we say we should remove the cash support for two-year-olds and strengthen it for one-year-olds. The working party believes that this change has become a very good solution. We increase the support for the smallest kids to NOK 5000 and give their parents a little extra money for a transitional period on the way to kindergarten. In addition, there is also a small handshake for parents who have to wait a few months before they get kindergarten space for their little ones. The large majority of two-year-olds are already in kindergarten, and the proportion of those receiving cash support has fallen significantly every year. But what we see is that some of the kids who have the most need to be in kindergarten are not there. This is about children who need the language stimulation they can get in kindergarten, and the age of two is thus a very important phase. This concerns ethnic Norwegian children from low-resource families and children from immigrant families. The proportion of non-Western-backed cash-assisted children is significantly higher than that of the rest of the population, and this gap has increased significantly since 1999. In addition, there are four public bodies that have recommended the liquidation and phasing out of the cash support. Common to all four samples is that they believe that cash support helps to keep women out of work and children outside kindergarten, and that this particularly applies to immigrants. Each year, the number of children receiving child protection is increasing. I believe that this is not because the growing conditions for young people in Norway have become worse and worse. I think it's because we've got more competent child protection and parents' trust in child protection has increased significantly. Most of the concerns we get come from the parents' sea, and they ask for help from child protection. The government is now making a child-restraint lift. When we're going to help the kids who are looking for help in child protection, we need enough people. For the third consecutive year, the government proposes an increase in the number of employees in municipal child protection. In 2011, we got 400 new positions in municipal child protection. This initiative will be continued next year, and in addition we will step up with 70 new posts in 2012. As a result of the increasing number of children being helped by child protection, the number of cases coming to the population is increasing. Long waiting times in the counties have meant that many children have to wait long before they are told who to be their caregivers and where to live. It's not an acceptable situation. That's why the denominators got an increase of 10 million. SEK in 2011 and a further 2,35 million. kr in the 2012 budget that we are discussing today. Children’s protection has no strong pressure groups in their backs, but they are the most vulnerable group in the Norwegian population, and it is most important to provide help. Therefore, the government and government parties in Stortinget will continue to speak the case of children's protection and ensure that there are enough people in the municipalities to help these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e337	Norway has one of the best parental leave options in the world, and the government has now also extended the feather quota here to countries. What many parents experience is that there is a heavy wind system in Nav, with a long wait and that it is complicated to get these weeks out. When you call Nav, there are people who are told that in terms of paper issue and father rate, you only answer it every two days. On 1 June this year it was possible to read that Nav could save up to 600 years' worth of work if parents had their leave days on the Internet. I, the undersigned and a member of the family committee, Lene Vågslid, engaged in this matter, and wrote a letter to the Lighthouse asking if he would do anything about this. The answer was that at the moment, the Council of State did not find Lysbakken that it was a priority task to work on this. My question to the representative Gjul is: is this something that the head of the committee from the Workers' Party wants to work on?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e346	I think the representative Horne is raising a very important question. We have a very flexible parental leave scheme in the law. If parents are to be able to switch parental leave, we must also ensure that management is flexible. We know that Nav has had major challenges with the transition they've been through. They're struggling with an old computer system that makes it extra difficult for them. I am therefore pleased that the Lighthouse and the government have signalled that they are now working to simplify the parental leave system through Nav, and that the government is also working to put in place a computer system in order not least to facilitate the parental leave system in a good way. I believe that both the Progress Party and the Workers' Party agree that here we have a way to make sure that we get a simpler practice of the parental leave scheme through the auxiliary device than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e355	Our child law is fundamental because it provides the framework for the security and care of the very least and most vulnerable in society. Today, both in the social debate and in various proposals that come on the table, we see that they are changing in a way by debating quite fundamental changes in the relationship between parents and children and the way it is regulated, whether it's surrogati, it's egg donation, or there's other things. My question to the head of the family committee is: does the representative see the need for a more comprehensive debate on the parental-child relationship and how, through child law, we put the framework for safe growth and care for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e362	Having seen the proposal that the Christian People's Party promoted yesterday on the modernisation of the Children's Act, I strongly doubt that the Workers' Party will be involved in this way so-called modernisation of the child law. It means, in practice, that we are going to have fewer family forms than we have today, that there are fewer parents who are going to have the opportunity to have children, and that we are going back to an old age when there was only one family structure with the biological mother, biological father and children that was to exist. We're taking a great distance from that. We think there has been a fantastic development in Norwegian society, with lonely parents being accepted, with different family structures, with lesbian parents. We see that more and more of these family structures are accepted. Children in lesbian conditions are no longer being bullied, and that development we want to continue. We don't want to sneak in, so that children living in such family structures are viewed as different.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e369	Private child protection measures provide about half of the total child protection provision. They have been crucial to the overall provision of child protection that has been given to children over many, many years. They have consistently high quality, they cost less than measures provided by the public, and they now have free capacity as the need is very great. While many children are in line, they do not receive private assignments. At the same time, valuable competences disappear out of child protection, and the overall supply is getting worse. The situation is serious for those children who need a good offer now. My question to the representative Gjul is whether it is more important for the Workers' Party that the form of operation is state or non-profit-making than that the action meets the needs of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e378	For the Workers' Party, there will be one thing that is most important when we are to provide good care for the young, and that is the best of the children. It was, in fact, under the Bondevik II government that it was decided that a transition should be made from child protection institutions to more use of foster homes, precisely because all international research shows that children are better off growing up in family relationships than growing up in institutions. What we are seeing in developments in Norway today is that we have had a slight transition from the use of institutional settings to foster homes. It has just been because we have always had one goal in mind, and it is that the best thing for children is to be based on what kind of care we give to children at any time. I'm quite surprised when I see the Right proposal in the State Budget, because it looks as if the most important thing is the private child protection institutions and not the kids, because there you move millions of dollars to private child protection institutions without thinking about what's for the benefit of the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e385	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e389	Family policy for the Progress Party is based on freedom of choice, flexibility and equivalency. It is therefore essential that we, as society and legislative power, do what we can to facilitate the best framework conditions for our children and their families. This is an intention that I know everyone in this room agrees with. Nevertheless, there are some challenges that we all have to deal with, and that we all have different approaches to and solutions to. For the Advancement Party, the family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element that constitutes an important framework for the growth and future of children. The Progress Party considers the family to be a very important traditional and cultural bearer, and believes that the position of the family in Norwegian society should be strengthened rather than that the public wants to make more and more decisions for the family. These are probably the major issues of Norwegian policy today, I would say. We politicians must strive to make everyday life simpler and more flexible for the family and not put obstacles in the way of inequalities and different solutions. For the Progress Party, the attitude is that the starting point and prerequisite for any family relationship is that it is based on volunteering and freedom of choice, and then we have to align our solutions accordingly. It's not long until Christmas, and we'll all go into a Christmas mode soon. It's a busy and nice time, a celebration that really symbolizes family values. Although most people here in Norway are doing well, we know that there are many — too many — who are horrifying about the next few weeks. Poverty among children and small children's families has increased in recent years despite the government's and Kristin Halvorsen's promise that it would be one of the areas of activity of this government. It is disappointing that the government does not take those signals seriously and ignores the importance of child protection in combating poverty. Still, the government pushes this forward, and every time they meet with that problem, we are told that one should look at other solutions. On 1 December the Council of State Lysbakken said in the interpellation debate that he wanted a debate on child poverty. Whether it was an invitation to the opposition to start it, or an attempt to say that he does not have support in the government to promote action, remains to be seen. At least the Progress Party is willing to start this debate. This year, however, I had hoped that the government in the budget would have taken a step in terms of child welfare for the families of young children – a grip that had helped a lot, especially in these times. The reality is that from 2012, the government proposes once again to weaken child welfare. The party of progress has been very clear that the value of child benefit should not be further weakened, and we propose again this year that child welfare should be indexed, which has not been done for many years. There have been many debates here in the house and in the media in recent years about kindergartens. Kindergartens have had many challenges this year, and the Progress Party is concerned about the development that we see both in the municipal and private kindergartens. What we warned against in this room last year has proved to be true, that is, the concern about the conversion of funding to kindergartens. One reads now that private kindergartens consider that they have difficulty getting the money they require from municipalities, and that many municipal kindergartens have to reduce their budgets, and that ultimately goes beyond the children. These are serious signals that it is important for the Council of State to take and follow up. It's a mountain sweat rule that says there's no shame in turning around. It should be taken with Halvorsen as far as the financing of kindergartens is concerned. The full equal treatment of kindergartens does not come into place until it is 100 pst. non-discrimination. Although today we have different accounts in municipal and private kindergartens, it turns out very unfortunate, and for the Progress Party, it has been an important part to put in place. We can't afford to lose the private kindergartens. They are important factors for success in kindergarten policy. Today, we also have a proposal for continuous childcare services. As everyone knows, the statutory entitlement to kindergarten – which came into force in 2009 – applies to all children born by 31 August, from August of the year they are 1 year old. Yet one sees that there are very great challenges to that right as it is today. That right means that children born after 31 August do not qualify for kindergarten until they are close to two years old. The Progress Party believes that a child care centre must be established on a continuous basis, so that the legislation is in place for the children and families, and that a child care centre can be applied for throughout the year. Parents are asking for more flexibility in the system so that they can adapt kindergarten start-ups to family life. Full babysitting is given only when all the families who need and want children's gardening are allowed. The government boasts in its budget that they have achieved full child-care coverage. But it is not right to boast that you have a full babysitting system when we know that children born after 31 August are not entitled to babysitting. This week the Stortinget has also dealt with changes in the cash support. The Progress Party shall give its support and is positive that one now increases that amount for the smallest children. But we do not support the government's proposal to cut the cash support for two-year-olds. With this proposal, the government is once again weakening the freedom of choice of small children's families. It is a good thing that parents who want to spend time with their children during their first years of life are given opportunities to do so. Families need to be able to adapt and organise their daily lives to the needs of each family to a much greater extent. Unfortunately, this is not the case when you remove the cash support for two-year-olds next year. With this, the government makes the possibilities much more difficult. I have to say, however, that I have a little hope, and we put our trust in the local politicians who are now introducing local cash support in several municipalities for those who want to make use of it. It's just a shame there's no more families of babies getting it good. As I said before, we go into a time that is difficult for some people. We know that many children are afraid of Christmas. Child protection has increased dramatically in the last year, and we have many unresolved issues in child protection. Now, at least the Progress Party is impatient to solve some of these issues. Although municipal child protection has been provided with money, something for which the government has to boast, we know that the challenges are so great that one needs to further strengthen municipal child protection. It is important that we also look at the cause of the large increase in child protection. There have been too many media reviews in recent years that have given the impression that we have child protection in crisis. We've seen an increasing state bureaucracy, and we've got a trend that's going in the wrong direction. It is important that all parties working with children who need help together ensure the best possible provision for children. Therefore, the developments we have unfortunately seen now need to change as quickly as possible. Child protection has great power. Often, a telephone comes from a desperate grandparents and parents, from aunts and uncles who wonder if the decision made by child protection is contrary to what Stortinget has said about close family. The Progress Party believes that if the extended family can find good and safe and good solutions for the child himself, the weighty reasons on the part of the child protection must be to intervene in the family situation. One shall not forget that children also have rights and that one must be willing to see how the legal security of children in the field of child protection can be strengthened without going all the way into the trench. Let's hope, as the chairman of the committee also said, that 2012 will be a child's year. When children do not have a large support group in their backs, this committee and the Stortinget focused on children who are under the care of child protection, so that you get better every day. We all have to remember that the children are our common future, and it is very important that everyone should have the right to a safe growth. We therefore need to make demands on how child protection works, and to ensure sufficient resources to provide assistance at an early stage, with a solid follow-up of parents who lose the right to daily care for their children in whole or in part. I have read the report from the Child Protection Panel up to several times. My wish is that this report will be an important part of the proposition once presented to the Stortinget. Here's a lot of important and good ideas that you have to be able to bring with you. It is not possible to have the floor in the debate today without mentioning the system of child protection supervision. When the director of the Department of Children and Gender Equality and Integration says that this has been a well-known issue for ten years, I wonder why someone really hasn't taken this into account before. Last week's media headlines on such issues are frightening and completely unacceptable. Sometimes I wonder why we stand in this room and pass laws when these are not followed up. Today, the opposition is promoting a proposal that we should look again at the supervisory system and put it in place. That is why I had hoped that the government parties, with the signals they sent out in the last few weeks, could support that opposition proposal. The Committee has had many debates on family policy this year. Important dividing lines emerge, and we have different solutions to the challenges facing the family. The budget of the Advance Party for the family will ensure a better everyday life, both economically and in relation to freedom of choice. We have faith that the family itself will be able to make the right choices, and the Progress Party is the party for the small children's families. With this, I would like to address the proposals in the vote that the Progress Party has alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e440	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e445	I hear the representative is talking about the Progress Party being the party for young children's parents. Then it is natural to draw attention to the Document No. The 8-proposal on ongoing nursery receptions that we are dealing with today. It is natural to deal with this by giving money to it in the budget. But there's no money added to the day-to-day babysitting from any of the parties. In the same budget, questions have been sent to the government about what this costs. One has received a response from the Ministry of Finance that one additional recording this year costs more than 1 billion. kr. However, the Progress Party is not able to add money to it. I just have to note that I don't think the Progress Party has any credibility when they jump around and promise continuous babysitting. I would simply like to ask the representative: how dare the Progress Party talk loudly about current recording, when they add zero kroner to ongoing child care admissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e452	I would like to thank the representative Gjul for a very good question. I'm glad that she addresses this question, which is an important issue for very many families with young children in the country. They call for flexibility and the possibility of having more admissions per year. For the Progress Party, this has been very important, and that is why we have promoted this Document No. The 8th proposal. But then we're told by the government that it's very hard to say what the sum is, that it could be a billion. The Progress Party has promoted the proposal to get it in place and get a case back to Stortinget, so that we can assess whether this is possible. We haven't added a sum to this in the budget – that's quite correct. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has gone beyond what the government parties have done. At least we have advanced a case to get this on the agenda. The government has not done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e459	The representative Horne began his speech by saying that the Family Policy of the Advance Party is based on freedom of choice, flexibility and equivalency. The alternative budget of the Progress Party is called ‘Your choice of decision’. But there is one group that the Advance Party does not enjoy freedom of choice. It's the group that's in love with one of the same sex. I asked about this last year, and I'm going to keep asking why the Progress Party, which usually promotes individuals to make their own choices, doesn't want these people to have the freedom to marry whom they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e466	I want to thank the representative Gina Knutson Barstad for the same question I got last year, and I'm going to try to remember what I answered last year, but still you're going to get an answer. The progress party equates gay and lesbian and believes that people must be allowed to behave as they please. Nevertheless, the Progress Party in its party programme has been very clear that we are presenting marriages between heterophiles as we believe is the right thing to do. Whether people who are lesbians or gays want to be cohabiters, they're welcome to be. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has in its program that it is the marriage of heterophilic persons that we recognize as a marriage. We are on it as long as the current programme works – until 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e473	There are in particular two items that capture my interest when I see the dispositions of the Progress Party in the budget we are discussing. That is what is called the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, and it is action for lesbians and gays. In both of these posts, the Progress Party is proposing significant cuts. It is believed that all persons should be on an equal footing and that special treatment is therefore unreasonable. It is written that: ‘It is wrong to establish selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adults only on the basis of their sexual orientation’. Then my question is both about women, and about lesbians and gays: isn't it that if we have a historical heritage of discrimination and discrimination, we have a responsibility as a society to contribute through public measures to correct and combat the discrimination that we still have with us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e483	It's a little special that the Christian People's Party takes a line like that on the Progress Party, when we know that they made a proposal yesterday that is kind of opposite to what they're asking questions about to the Progress Party here. The party of progress, as I said to previous speakers, is like gay and lesbian. But we're not going to have our own arrangements for them, because we think that making our own arrangements – having their own representatives, etc. - will be discriminatory. The Progress Party believes that today we have a law, we have a body that can enforce the discrimination to which they are then subjected. The party of progress is taking a great deal of distance from all forms of discrimination, whether it be race, religion or sex. Nevertheless, we believe that there does not have to be any special measures to focus on that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e492	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e495	For the Right, the family is the main community of society and the arena of security, belonging and development. The family shall be guaranteed the freedom of choice and the ability to take responsibility for themselves and their loved ones. Every family shall be respected for its uniqueness. The child’s best interests are the right starting point for child and family policy. All children are entitled to safety and good care. Childhood is helping to mold us as people and citizens. Children are vulnerable and need to be cared for by good and safe adults. Right will highlight the personal responsibility of each of us to alert children who suffer in different ways. We often hear demands that the municipalities and the state have to go on the road to ensure that all children are well-being. But the municipalities and the state can never replace the network, the neighbours and the local environment around the child. It's those who can discover first, those who can help first; it's the people around the child who can help and save it. That is why we say in the Right: we must not forget the personal responsibility of each of us. Everyone, as adults, has to tell us when we suspect that some things are wrong. The vast majority of children go to kindergarten, and when we gradually get full kindergarten coverage, we also need to invest more resources to strengthen quality work in kindergarten. Many children have an amazing kindergarten to go to every single day, thanks to local efforts and kindergarten people who develop new methods, and work systematically with quality to give children a good day's work. The problem is that the government's quality work in kindergartens has taken a long time since the big-time report Quality in kindergarten was presented almost two years ago. The Education Directorate will first start work on many of the actions next year, and an excessive break in quality at kindergartens is not good. Therefore, the right is busy starting that work as soon as possible. We know that it's those who work in kindergarten, who determine the quality of the offer. Ensuring adequate and competent staffing in kindergarten is a major challenge. According to the Federation of Education, the number of exemptions during 2012 could be close to 7 000. It's an unacceptable high number. The right is concerned with making it more attractive both to begin and to resume working in the nursery. So we're going to take 100 million. kr more for quality work in kindergarten than is done by the government in the budget of the year. We are also pleased that the government took up our last year's proposal to intensify the work of recruiting more people for pre-school teacher training. Right considers that all parents who want a kindergarten offer for their children should receive it. It is that those with the lowest income are relatively paying more for their kindergarten than before the maximum price was introduced. So the right-hand side suggests raising the maximum price a little bit and spending 150 million. kr to strengthen the income-graded parental payment scheme. It is targeted welfare policy. For the Right, cash support is about parents' rights and freedom to choose care for their children, and what is best for each child. We must therefore make it possible for more people to spend more time at home with their children in their very first year of life. Therefore, the right-wing approach is against the government’s proposal for cutbacks in the cash support scheme. The right is concerned that this is a first step towards removing the entire cash support scheme. The right wants the most equal parent possible. We want to make changes to the parental leave that equate mother and father as caregivers and that ensure family flexibility, for example. to be able to distribute the permit freely. Norway has one of the world’s best parental leave schemes, which it is important to ensure. With the Right proposal, we ensure that all children get a safe and healthy start to life, and that children do not lose the valuable time with their parents. Again, major child protection deficiencies have been identified, the last of which is for the purpose of supervision and abuse of children in the care of child protection. It's scary to read the stories that come out. I'm glad that we have a press that engages and raises the important stories, and not least makes it possible to get numbers and statistics on the table that give us information about the situation in child protection. For these kids, no one's going to torch, they're left to themselves, even when the state, who's taken responsibility for them, fails. The legal certainty of children must be taken seriously and action must be taken to strengthen the legal certainty of children. Good child protection is child protection with a wide variety of measures and high-quality services. All children under the care of child protection are entitled to a well-adapted offer. The use of private child protection measures is high and stable in Norway. Privates contribute important offers that ensure children's tailoring. Therefore, the right will ensure that private operators remain in attendance and provide an important and good complement to the overall child protection offer. So we're going to add 150 million. kr more than the government for the purchase of private child protection services. For the third consecutive year, the Right proposes to earmark funds to strengthen municipal child protection. Right will help the children out in the municipalities, where the kids live, rather than spend even more money on child protection bureaucracies in Buffetat. The right re-prioritises from state child protection to municipalities and private actors. It will provide better child protection for the children. The right is concerned that municipalities should be able to help the children who need it and that they have the resources to follow up the children who are suffering as early as possible. Local authorities must have more real power and the ability to give their children the right measures. The task-differentiation project in Trondheim showed that when the municipalities got more responsibility for child protection, the offer for the children also improved. Some municipalities have well-functioning child protection, while others struggle with low resources and long waiting times. Too many children are in line for foster homes. The case-handling time in the counties is too long – and broken – and several thousand child protection cases are ordered every year. One in four children in institutions do not go to school, and too many children do not have the supervision they require. The right is disappointed that the government’s only response to the major challenges facing child protection are evaluations and investigations. We are concerned that no more concrete proposals are made, that the government has no more urgency to improve the daily lives of these kids. These kids have no time to lose, and it's our duty to do what we can to give these kids childhood back. In the right, we have a strong commitment to the children in child protection. We listen to the children, we listen to the parents, and we listen to all the amazing people who work in the child protection sector. Right will strengthen the legal certainty of children in child protection through their own low-threshold complaint system, in order to ensure that children too are heard and taken seriously. Schools and education are the most important thing we can give children to ensure that they survive in life. Therefore, we in the Right are pleased that the Council of State is now monitoring the extent of children in the child protection training situation. On the right, action in the field of child protection will be strengthened to provide training for several of the children, with a total of 30 million. kr for such measures. The Council of State has launched a courageous experiment, which may have serious consequences for the children in turning the measures from institution to foster home and home help measures. It is problematic when there is so little evidence that concludes that this is a proper strategic approach to ensure that children and young people get a proper offer. The right would stress that there is an overall objective when children are to be placed outside the home, that each one is given a customised offer of high quality at the right price. Obviously, the government is unable to recruit or follow up foster homes in a good enough way. There is a need for foster homes that will, and as ability to care for children and young people with greater challenges than is usual. So the right-hand side is going to be 20 million. to measures to ensure the individual follow-up of foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e537	The President will ask whether the representative will address the Right-wing proposal in case No. 5, so that one now in the first round gets to pick up all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e541	Yes, I address the Right-wing proposal in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e546	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposal to which she referred. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e551	In the address newspaper on 7 January of this year, the representative Hofstad Helleland is going to make continuous babysitting. What can be asked after this budgetary procedure is whether the representative of Hofstad Helleland has lost in the internal budgetary struggle in the Right. For both the Right Party and the Advance Party in common, the laws and laws in the media are on ongoing child care admissions, and the government is criticised for the fact that all the young people who were not born before 1 September do not have children's playgrounds. They promise in fine words and phrases – in document proposals here in the hall – continuous nursery reception. But when you get to the really hard facts, which count to the seventh and last, which is the budget where you put money, you've added zero dollars to this measure. I think this is unprofessional, and if it wasn't because it was an unparliamentary expression, I would also characterize it as hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e558	The President will be allowed to comment that both of these expressions are unparliamentary, and it must be possible to produce a political message without using any unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e561	It was a great deal of aggression on the part of the head of the family committee today. It is obvious that it seriously annoys government parties that the Right is going in front to get more flexible childcare facilities for their parents. I also think Gjul's thing to raise himself then to the degrees above what the undersigned says in the newspaper about what the Right wants for the future kindergarten, because Gjul just knows that this is very requested by parents. What the right has said is that it's a goal for us to make babysitting more flexible. But we cannot impose on municipalities, especially not many of the large press communities, to have rolling babysitting. The right is pleased that many municipalities today practice flexible babysitting, and we want to see if it is possible for more municipalities to do so. We know that parents want more of Right Policy, namely more flexible childcare facilities, and that's what they'll get with Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e570	In my home municipality, there is a right-wing possibility to pursue politics, since they control, but there is no ongoing child care. If the representative of Hofstad Helleland is going to have a political legacy, I think it will be as the main opponent of the paper. One year ago, Hofstad Helleland got his party to say that the Right would now remove the feather quota, against, among other things. Erna Solberg's voice. On Monday, the representative of Hofstad Helleland attacked the government's removal of the cash support and thought that equality was taking over. I would just like to ask the representative of Hofstad Helleland: Right-wing Women's Forum supports the approach taken by the government on Monday, and the representative of Solberg supports the government's federal quota policy. [[President clubs]] Ville Hofstad Helleland characterised...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e577	Now it was a little difficult to get a grip on what the question was, but in general I would say that in the Right – which hopefully also you in SV – we follow our program and our adopted policy, also decisions from the National Assembly. And it's true that Right wants more equal parenting, Right wants parents free to share their leave between themselves, because we see that fathers choose a little different today than they did before. But what we and the Right Women's Forum and Erna Solberg want and are for, unlike the government parties, is the basic freedom of choice for the parents, because we think the most important thing is that families have to choose how to live their lives, and figure out what is best for their children, instead of forcing on quotas and forcing on leave and A4 solutions, which unfortunately do not fit all families.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e582	I would first like to say that I share the commitment of the representative from the Right of Child Protection. The representative has said on several occasions that nothing is being done about child protection, and that there are a lot of reports, plans and messages and samples that are being put down. But the reform we are running on the basis of today was almost just started when today's government joined, and it has already received a lot of criticism. The representative of the Party of Hofstad Helleland put in office and introduced that reform. But is not the criticism received by today's child protection reform a sign that perhaps time should be spent before new measures are put in place? I also wonder what reflections the representative of Hofstad Helleland is making around the job her own government did when the introduced child protection reform, which has already received so much criticism after a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e587	Thank you for a good and important question. I am pleased that the Right is a party that stops and looks around – whether we are satisfied with the measures taken. I am pleased that we too, although we were involved in this reform ourselves, are in fact able to look at it critically and stop and ask: is this the right way to organise child protection? It's obvious that the answer is no, especially because you don't need to go a lot around the municipalities or the child protection itself to hear that it doesn't work, and that's because of the powdering of the responsibility. At last, no one takes responsibility for the children, because it is shared between the state and the municipalities. That is why the Right has been a driver so that we now have to start trial projects, so that municipalities with robust child protection services have the opportunity to take over the responsibility themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e594	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e597	As others have been before me, Norway is a country with a high level of equality compared to the rest of the world. But the job is not finished. Despite the fact that we have come a long way in Norway, it is still true that two out of three business leaders are men, women earn 15 pst. less than men per hour, 43 pst. of all women working part-time, women spending more than twice as much time on housework as men, and crisis centres report between 8 000 and 16,000 rapes per year. There I would add that we have seen a lot of that this autumn, and had a long debate on it. These numbers tell you what you're experiencing, and what opportunities you have, are related to what sex you have. Norway is not an equal society. We who ended up under the pink carpet at the food clinic make less money and systematically have less power than those who ended up under the blue carpet. In SV we have always been concerned with this injustice, and therefore we use the government power to do something about it. Kindergarten reform is not only a major welfare reform, it is also a major equality reform. The fight for kindergartens was the fight for a real offer for children, but also part of the fight for women's rights and the opportunity to work. The right to work and own income are the cornerstone of the women's liberation. No one is free or independent if they are financially dependent on others. The high level of equality in Norway, with kindergartens, is not only good for children and for women; it is also good for society. As the representative Juul had in mind, women's professional activity is one of the building blocks of the wealth we have in Norway. This is one of the reasons Norway is going better than Europe, and whose right-hand side will agree to boast of the Norwegian model, they must also start to take this point on board. In order for the kindergarten to be a real choice for many, the price is an important factor, and therefore we in SV are happy that the government is now lowering the maximum price. Since 2005, we have reduced the price by 31 pst. Here, too, the bourgeois parties reveal their hollow rhetoric of freedom of choice. In its alternative budget, the right maximum price is removed, and that means that fewer people will be able to afford to pay for kindergarten. So I'm going to ask, what do Right's slogans about freedom of choice say if you can't afford to have a nursery place? The right-hand side is often willing to take credit for too much of what is good welfare arrangements in Norway, but if we, for example, challenging them in kindergartens, they say they have voted in favour of all the steps taken by the government. If we challenge them on parental leave, they'll say they've been involved in securing every step of the way. But when have they taken the promise when they have been in government? One of the 46 weeks of parental leave in Norway is what the Right has contributed. All the other 45 weeks have come in red-green and centre-left constellations. A little bit about some of the most important things we do, child protection. There have been many examples of why it should be at the very top of the political agenda. I'm proud to be part of the greatest child protection promise of over 20 years. Also in this year's tight budget, we continue to increase by 50 million. NOK, plus the increase of SEK 240 million. kr from last year. The child-restraint lift is three-legged. It's resource growth that we're doing, it's new organisation that we're planning, and it's new principles – we should probably discuss the biological principle in the future. The Right Party and the Advance Party propose once again drastic cuts and transfers from state to municipality. It's symbol politics. We have protection against dismissal in Norway. The policies of the Right and the Advance Party cannot be introduced from 1 January 2012 because people have jobs. This will not add new resources to municipal child protection until several years have elapsed. If you're going to move money, you also have to move tasks. I believe that the previous child protection reform has shown the need for the last child protection is a new rapid reform without anchoring that goes down. We're going to do this work real and thorough, and then we're going to have to take seriously the recordings we get from the employees. In the end, I would like to praise the employees in Child Protection for the job they do. It must be one of the toughest jobs you can have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e618	The government with SV in the head has been very champions that we have to do something about poverty among the families of young children. Now we've had a majority government for six years, and we've seen that the poverty of children has increased under this government. So, say a lot of researchers that if you had increased child-responsiveness, this would have been a great help for the families of young children in relation to the fight against poverty. Nevertheless, we have seen over the last few years that not once in the budget debates, SV has raised the issue of child welfare and its impact in relation to the families of young children. My question to the representative Knutson Barstad is whether the representative can see that child protection can have an important advantage in the fight against poverty among children, and whether SV will stand on what they have promised for many years now, that they will do something to reduce poverty among families with young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e623	I would like to thank you for a question that is important and deals with an important topic. Only in the case of several poor children: we see that one of the reasons for this is that we accept refugees and that refugees who come to Norway have quite little in the initial phase. It is not a good thing that they are poor, but it is a good thing that we accept refugees who come to Norway. The representative Horne may take it to his party. In terms of child welfare and health, we are happy in universal forms of well-being. We're concerned about child welfare, and we want to strengthen it – we do. But no parties have strengthened it since 1996 – nor has the Progress Party since they supported a government and had the opportunity to press it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e630	Right wants to give more to the vulnerable children. That is why we are proposing in our alternative budget a targeted commitment to good and concrete measures to facilitate the life situation of vulnerable children and young people and their families. It is especially about children in child protection and children in disadvantaged families. The representative Heikki Holmås has stated that the government has not done enough for poor children. Does the representative, Knutson Barstad Holmås, share the view that the government and especially the SV have not done enough for the poor children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e637	I share the commitment of the representative Holmås to poor children, and I share his impatience after getting done more and more. This budget includes funds for urban measures, for example: – which is an important measure for poor children in cities – and for holidays for all. The problem with the Right Policy is that they are constantly in favour of removing universal, good schemes, such as the maximum price in kindergarten, and only lifting at the bottom, while in SV we believe that a good and broad welfare state with universal arrangements for all is better than a poor fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e642	The representative Knutson Barstad says she is happy that the government is carrying out a child-restraint lift. Whether new organisation and review of principles can be called a lifting is, to the most extent, a discussion that is worth taking. But when it comes to resources, you can use that term. Then it might be right to call it a child-restraint lift, because there was a child-rescue lift in the budget for the current year. Then there was a significant boost, which we were pleased with, even though it was not as much as we wanted when it applied to earmarked funds for the municipalities. But for the next year, it can hardly be called a resource lift for child protection. So my question to Knutson Barstad's representative is: Is SV's contribution to child protection a shipper's roof for 2011? Or is it going to hope that you might find that you should come back with some increased funds on a later occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e651	I wish the Christian People's Party were a little humble in that we are now lifting child protection in a completely different way than they did when they had government power. It was a promise that began in 2011, with earmarked posts, which we carry on in a tight budget. I do not think that we should doubt the commitment of neither the Red-Green representatives nor the Council of State to the protection of children, and that this is an overall promise on which we are continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e658	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e661	A good family policy is an important basis and a key prerequisite for all policy areas. Well-functioning families and good conditions for families are important for society as a whole and will save society from large resources. The family has a value in itself and must not end up as an arena in order to achieve objectives in other areas, as a single committee also points out in its comments on the budget. Family policies are demanding. There is no doubt that families represent something fundamental in society. Our family helps to impress us to a great extent, and the lessons we have from our family later in life. That's why what's happening in the family is also very important and relevant to the big community. At the same time, it is an important principle in our society that the family, and individuals, have a great degree of freedom to make their own choices and live their own lives. This balance sheet also leads to important fundamental debates. Family protection is an important part of family policy. By spending money on prevention, society will save a lot of money later. It is important that we focus on the group of families and young people who experience major conflicts, for example: after a break in life. In order for family protection to really use its competence, it should be an objective that they should have the resources to carry out even more preventive work than they do today. At a time when we are stepping up resources on the child protection side, it is important to remember that family protection can have a very important role to play in preventing. The address paper has focused on areas where child protection as a system fails through multiple queries. It makes a big impression on us all to read that a large number of kids have failed the most. There are kids who were initially very vulnerable, who have been exploited. This is an example of how important it is that we have a system that works, because when the system doesn't work, it has very serious consequences. We have been discussing child protection since the beginning of this period, and I have to say that I am pleased that the Stortinge can go into a more concrete debate on the design of future child protection. I have faith in a first-line service that should get more power and responsibility than it has today. We need to discuss what we think child protection should be responsible for, and what it should not be responsible for. Should e.g. Measures that are less extensive could be attributed to others other than those which also deal with issues involving actions at the other end of the scale, such as: care take-over? I do not think that all the difficulties we experience in many areas, where we see that the municipalities have failed, will be solved automatically even if the responsibility is transferred to the state. In a tight budget, room has also been found for the continuation of a child-restraint lift. That's an increase of 50 million. kr for municipal child protection. In particular, these funds will benefit the smaller trade unions and those who focus on inter-municipal cooperation. Another important area in this area is kindergartens. Some places and good quality are fundamental to kindergarten policy. Kindergartens are important for very many families and represent too many opportunities to be in full-time employment while having a good and decent offer for the young. In the year’s budget, the government continues to step up non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. We know that there have been concerns in some municipalities and among some kindergartens about the practice of the regulation, but we need to be aware that it will take time to build up competences in the municipalities so that they can be a good kindergarten authority. In addition to the major reforms being undertaken in the kindergarten sector, it is also important that we continue to put pressure on the quality of kindergarten. Then I have to get into the cash support. I am very pleased with the solution that the government has come up with. The cash support is a very important matter for the Central Party, and it was very important for us that this scheme should be maintained as well as further developed in a government cooperation. The government proposes a strengthening of the cash support for 1-year-olds, which is fully in line with the Center Party programme. It helps to strengthen freedom of choice and is particularly important for many in the transition between parental leave and work. What we especially get is that after a year of leave, you want a slightly softer transition before you get back to full employment, and that's exactly what this government is doing. An additional dimension in the case of cash support is that we have been given a modernisation of the cash support that I would believe can be achieved through different political majority, and that helps to give a signal that cash support will be important for families and family policies in the future as well. It can, as I said, stand through different governments. So all the government parties have reason to be proud that you've got such a good solution to a system where you have a rather different starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e700	The representative stated how important it was with the cash support, and that the centre party was very happy that we had now had a change in it. The centre party has in a way been the party that has guaranteed the cash support in the government, and it seems that it is the centre party that has won that matter internally in the government. Nevertheless, at least the Progress Party believes that there has been a weakening of the cash support and the freedom of choice needed by small children's families. The centre party is also known for local democracy – self-government – and we have now seen that some municipalities introduce local cash support. In Our municipality, among others the Centre party was co-sponsored with local cash support, and in the Austevoll municipality the representatives of the Centre Party voted for the proposal to introduce local cash support. Does the representative Nilsson Ramsøy of the Central Party support their local politicians that they are now using the facilities to establish local cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e710	For me, this is just an expression of local democracy, and we don't in any way have any partiality in the Center Party. If our local politicians, with the framework they get – babysitting is not, it is a framework transfer the municipalities get – and if the two municipalities the representative of the Progress Party referred to, believe that using the money on cash support is what is best for the inhabitants of that municipality, I have full respect for it. I think it is completely unproblematic that you choose such a solution, because it is clear that the municipalities are free to find out what they themselves want to spend the money on. But it is clear that all municipalities are in a dilemma, because there are many statutory tasks, and then it is often the non-statutory tasks that need to be given priority. But if that's how those municipalities fulfill the statutory tasks they have, and yet find room for the kind of things that are positive for the families, I think it's completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e715	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Nilsson Ramsøy. It is a courageous representative of the Central Party who dares to defend the family's right to freedom of choice and at the same time criticises the government's family policy. The family's freedom of choice and respect for the family is an arena that unites the Right and Center. The representative spoke for a day or two ago to Tronder-Avisa: ‘The traditional left side is very concerned with the symbolic issues, such as parental leave and parental allowance or the removal of cash support. But how do we manage to raise the family so it's important in itself, not just is an arena for equality," asks the representative of Nilsson Ramsøy. That's a great quote. What does the government do to ensure that freedom of choice is the most important – not equality policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e729	First I have to say that I have not been out criticising the government's family policy. What I've pointed out is that it's not always that what's best for equality is necessarily best for the family. We can see that, among other things. in the case of cash support, where it can be argued that it is best for equality to be removed. But I think it's best for the family to maintain it. A two-part parental leave is what I think would have been unfortunate, because it's not good for the family, but it would have looked good on the statistics for equality. So the government works for – and has – a very flexible family policy through the parental leave scheme, which allows families to figure out for themselves how to take out most of the leave. Dad's got a lot, mom's got a lot, and then there's a lot of it that's optional. We have strengthened the cash support, so that even more families have a real freedom of choice to be home with the kid in the first year, precisely because we have increased the amount the families get. I still think it is important to point out that there may be a difference in what is best for the family, and what is best for equality. I think that is an important debate – not least when such reactions are created, it does mean that it is important to raise the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e739	Many of the important questions addressed in this setting cannot be mentioned with full justice in 5 minutes. But we'll have to try. The kids are the most vulnerable of us, because they're the smallest. It's in the family and from the parents that the kids get the protection and care they need. That is why the budget we are discussing is also, perhaps the most important of all the budgets we are discussing in the context of the State budget. It's the parents who care for the kids. They do that whether they live together, or they take responsibility – something we see increasingly – even though they do not live under the same roof. It's worth noting. There is an overall committee which, in the vote, indicates that: ‘The family is a basic social unit in society. The family is important for each of us and for society, it constitutes a fundamental community. The Committee points out that the family is the framework for the growth of children’. In addition, it says: ‘The Committee will further point out that the pattern of family and life has changed a lot in recent years. There has been a greater diversity of forms of life, and the Committee therefore considers it important that the family concept is broad and inclusive.» Furthermore, a joint committee says: ‘The Committee would stress that it is important to remember that the family is important in itself, that the family framework is important in itself, and that the family does not just have to become a arena in order to achieve other objectives.’ The State budget for the year has a cost page of NOK 1 006 100,000,000. Nevertheless, what matters most to most of the majority of life is how we feel about our closest. It doesn't spend more money on the government than they spend on paying a few state secretaries. It's about cohabitation, and it's about the relationships that matter most to us in life. I don't understand, I don't accept it. The Christian People's Party proposes significant increases in cohabitation, parental guidance and family protection. The government initiates the State budget by saying that the government is ‘managing a policy based on justice and community’. When you see how the government talks and deals with the cash support, you have to ask, what is that community? Is the family in conflict with Community solutions, or is the family still the most basic community? The Christian People's Party is not afraid to give parents the opportunity to make free elections. For us, freedom of choice is full child care coverage and cash support. Just because parents and families are the most important protection around the children, they are the most vulnerable where parents are unable to provide care. The Christian People's Party has put forward proposals for full child protection, such as: means that all children must have a home because we see that there is a lack in every aspect of child protection. We're waiting for a coup from the government. It will look strange if not the government, when you come back with a case to Stortinget, as announced, comes with a escalating plan that will ensure all children a home and a full child protection coverage. I expect that. The resource-lifting government is currently appearing as a shipper's roof for the year 2011. That is a fundamental question: who is responsible for children? Who are parents? Last week the address told a story about a six-year-old girl who came to the hospital, and no one came to visit. Who are parents, and why do you become parents? Who's in charge? The question of egg donation, surrogati, various suggestions for extending assisted fertilisation offers raises the question. The Christian People's Party is calling for an overall debate on the parental-child relationship in order to have a clear, holistic thinking behind what ensures the child's safe framework, and we are challenging to take that debate – the promise of individual proposals promoted in the debate – on a holistic and fundamental basis. They deserve that very least, the children deserve it. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e774	The representative Mr Øyvind Håbreek then raised the point of proposal No. 8 in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e779	The representative, Håbreck, mentioned in his statement the common remark we have about family policy. After reading the representative's proposal that the representative promoted yesterday, I have to say that I am very much in doubt whether it is right for us as a government party at all to be part of that comment, because we have a very different definition of what is family. In this proposal, the representative proposes to remove the pater est rule, because the social danger is not good enough, and proposes a ban on the adoption of lone and gay couples. In addition, this proposal states: «When children can be created by methods that are more common in production, is there any change in the view of children and human vision?» What I want to ask the representative Hopeful questions about is: Is biology more important than good caregivers of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e789	The representative raises a lot of big questions. I'll answer as best I can in a minute. I must say that if a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party could get the government parties to consider what comments they are making, it is strange, and it might have to have consequences for which comments the Christian People's Party would be involved. So what notes the red-greens here are at the back of the setting, they almost have to answer for themselves. As far as our representative proposal is concerned, it raises a very fundamental issue. We invite to a fundamental debate on the parental-child relationship and who is responsible for children. There are many clear and clear principles in today’s children’s legislation about it. Among other things, half of the paragraphs of the Children's Act deal with responsible fathers through DNA testing, and how it should be done. It's a basic principle. These are quite basic principles for how we calculate fun, for example. When the representative Gjul discusses those issues, I just point out that there are many different family forms – and that is what we refer to in the setting, together – and they should have full respect. But then the question is, who has the right to state help to have children? That's another question. There we see that both the Red-Green and Christian People's Party set clear boundaries for it already today, and I think we will still agree that it should be in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e800	I want to ask you something of the same thing as the representative Gjul asked. It is far from new that the Christian People's Party has a very old-fashioned and discriminatory view of homosexuals as caregivers and parents. It comes from their opposition to the marriage law. But when the Christian People's Party goes in to remove all sperm donation in Norway, starting with the fact that children are going to be right about a father, I would ask the representative, Håbreek: Is it like this among the heterophilic couples who have used sperm donation, that there is a father in power to be a caregiver, or are you a father by virtue of being a sperm donor? And is it that the Christian People’s Party does not recognize these families as families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e805	If the representative finds reason to ask if we recognise them as families, he has not read the proposal we have written, because there we point it very clearly. The proposal for a representative we have made challenges a review of child law, because we need a comprehensive review of the parental-child relationship, and it challenges the modernisation of legislation, because we want to equalise men with women, so that men have the same responsibility for children as women have always had. I am surprised that the SV and the Workers' Party have such a strenuous relationship with an important step towards equality and a debate and a grip that should have been a matter of course in 2011. We live in a modern society and should then take the debates. So when the representative asks if you recognise families, I find reason to say that the SV's own policy actually refuses part of the families to which the representative Knutson Barstad refers, to have children, because fortunately one supports a ban on surrogati. If it's not to recognise those families, SV gets to explain it on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e814	There is a clear need to look at the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party, because it is obvious that this proposal will reverse the number of family forms accepted in Norway. I think the Christian People's Party should recognize that. When you say that the Father Est rule means that you only accept a biological father as a caregiver, and as a father, you're going to sneak into the family forms. The proposal further states that lesbians should not be allowed to be assisted by fertilisation in Norway, and says that homosexuals should not have the opportunity to adopt either domestically or abroad. Then there will be many fewer family forms than what we have today. Does not the Christian People's Party recognize that this is going backwards into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e822	The Christian People's Party is thus promoting proposals for the modernisation of legislation, so that we make the same demands for men as for women who have always been met in the area of responsibility for children. It should be lacking – we are living in 2011 – and that debate should be taken. The provision of semen donation was established in the 1930s, at a time of completely different attitudes towards men, responsibility and fatherhood. That the Workers' Party is not mature to discuss it again in the light of modern attitudes towards men and responsibilities, I actually think it is a little surprising. Then the representative has misunderstood the pater est principle, for this principle is a way of determining the danger when the couple are married. We're just saying that you can do this the same way for married couples that you do today for cohabitants who have children, which is what is known to be a lot of. So when the representative keeps repeating that you do not recognise family forms because you set limits for assisted fertilisation, I have to remember that the Workers' Party obviously does not recognise a large number of family forms that today – according to the Labour Party's policy – do not give rise to assisted fertilisation or surrogati.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e833	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e836	Last week, the address paper printed a series of articles on child-rescue children who have been abused in foster homes, in relief homes or by support contacts. These are stories that have upset us all. They show that it is still happening in our society that our very most vulnerable children, those who have been subjected to care failure, are experiencing a failure again by those who were to help. It shows that the work we have undertaken to build up a stronger and better child protection in Norway is necessary and important and must continue with full force. The most important thing is to make sure that there are enough adults to help the children in a good enough way. That is why we have focused on more people and increased competence in municipal child protection. We have to have good supervision, but the goal is that the services should always be so good that the supervision has nothing to put on. In 2011, the government earmarked 240 million. kr to municipal child protection. The funds have given 400 new posts — the largest municipal child protection resource promise of 20 years. We have proposed that this bet should be continued and that it should also be increased to next year. We're escalating the stakes by another 50 million. kr. It will provide 70 new jobs, in particular to benefit from smaller child protection services – with five employees or less. For most children it is better to grow up in a family than in an institution. That is why we are working hard to get more foster homes. Sometimes help in the child's own home can be the best solution. Strengthening child protection is one of the most important tasks of this government. Our child-restraint lift has three parts. One is the necessary resource promise that we are doing well. The second is reorganization, which is part of a necessary boost because reorganization can lead to a better use of resources, that we work more properly and thus help more people. The third is a new priority, because we see that we also need to question whether we have the right emphasis on the different principles of child protection, and whether we can thus get more effective child protection and make more correct decisions, for example. by listening more to the children themselves. Norwegian equality makes us better able to cope with economic challenges. It is an important perspective precisely in the situation we are today, with an economic crisis in Europe. Not only does it apply to the individual family — where a family with two incomes is better equipped to deal with difficult times than families with one income — it also applies to the whole of our society. Equality is a crucial condition for prosperity and well-being. It means that we have more people to participate in the profession, while having more children in Norway than in most European countries. The Red-Green Government has contributed to increasing parental freedom of choice and has helped to make it easier to make the choice of both working and having children — through major and important welfare reforms, such as child care reform and a strong expansion of the parental leave system. The final recommendations of the Equality Committee will be next autumn. The goal is to build on everything we've done in Norway to achieve more. The government will follow up with a big message on gender equality policy, which will also build on the gender equality action plan that I presented earlier this autumn. The gender equality policy of the future is not least about how to facilitate more equality in the labour market. One important instrument is the parental leave. Most fathers still only take out the feather quota. Few fathers work part-time. We want to help that the question of whether fathers can take out even a slightly larger part of the leave can be on the agenda. That is why we want a clearer third of the leave to facilitate more equal parenthood, so that children can have more contact with both parents, and to strengthen the position of women in the labour market. An equal society is a value in itself, but it's also a lot more than that. It is therefore interesting to see that what is so controversial in this room is related to thirds, related to the parental quota, related to a stronger parental leave, not controversial in the workplace, where both NHO and LO support a third of the parental leave. Involvement in gender equality creates values in all ways, and precisely in the situation our country is today – with major challenges for the future – we cannot afford to bet on equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e862	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e865	The Council of State started its article by referring to the address paper last week in relation to the lack of supervision of child protection – which I am very pleased that he says he will do something about. Nevertheless, I have to say that when the director of the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate says that child protection has known about these abuse problems for many decades and has been given compensation arrangements, so that something is done about it, then this is not good enough. I must say that I am disappointed that the government parties cannot participate in the opposition's proposal today, where we ask the government to make sure that the supervision system of child protection is strengthened, that children are given the supervision they require. It is a proposal that the opposition is promoting, and that the government parties today should have helped to support if they really believe anything about it. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e874	It would be very serious if what has come out here was completely new to the government or completely new to the Storting. We have known that there are serious situations in parts of our child protection, and that we have not been able to help the children well enough in all situations, and that for some it has had serious consequences. Therefore, the government has long since started to do something about the main reasons why that kind of situation could have arisen. The most important thing – as I have said many times – is to get more people in municipal child protection services, so that the children are followed up well enough. In addition, we have introduced police records, demands for exhaustive police certificates for foster parents, which could have prevented some of the cases mentioned here. Supervision is also crucial. We're in the process of strengthening the supervisory system, but we're dependent on the municipalities doing their part of the job. If they don't, we have to organize it another way. We do not need any more proposals to make things better. To support it, I would like to see concrete proposals from the opposition and not just good wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e881	I thank you for the answer, but I still believe that the government does not do enough. The committee was on an inspection and had a conversation with the county councilman in Troms, where the county councilman said that it turns out that almost half of the children were not given the supervision they are entitled to. In this room we adopt laws and regulations, and then it is up to the municipalities to follow those rules. There is a need for more money – yes, but then we need to focus on it, so that the municipalities get that supervision in place. When the County Council says that they lack sanctions against the municipalities that do not prioritize this important work, my question becomes to the Council of State: Will the Council of State look into whether sanctions are to be imposed on those municipalities that do not use that money to put in place a supervisory system, so that we ensure that children are not exposed to such abuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e888	The earmarked scheme we have put in place in 2011 is precisely designed so that it is the municipalities that get this money as part of their commitment to their child protection – and not those who want state funds to replace their own bet – that are given the opportunity to escalate child protection. I expect one of the consequences of this will be that the precise task of obtaining supervisors, implementing supervision, will be better followed up. But it is also necessary to discuss whether we can organise supervision in another way, if the municipalities are unable to do that job. That is why I have also had a working group that has looked at this and has proposed that the State take over these tasks. However, in the case of the other issue of child protection, the tendency is not least among the opposition in this room to want municipalities to take over more. It should certainly be a cross of thought for the Progress Party and for those who argue for it, that unfortunately here we have an example of a task the municipalities have, which to date they have not done well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e895	37 pst. by children in foster homes do not receive the supervision they require, 11 pst. children in foster homes do not have a supervisor at all. It shows that the legal certainty of child-restraint children is seriously threatened. Recently, it was also known that 52 of the children under the care of child protection have been subjected to abuse by caregivers appointed by the State. This is very serious. There is a violation of central human rights, there is a violation of the Child Protection Act, and children's human rights are violated every day in child protection. I assume that this too is unacceptable to the Council of State, and I wonder what immediate measures will be taken by the Council of State to ensure the human rights of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e902	It is unacceptable and serious when children are not supervised. Children in foster homes shall have visits by their supervisor four times a year and shall also have visits by their case handler from municipal child protection four times a year. In some cases we see that none of the parts happen. With regard to the ability of child protection to mobilise both several supervisors and, of course, to follow up on their own visitation responsibilities, several people in municipal child protection are my main answer. But it's not good enough for us to see that some of the municipalities that should have the prerequisites for doing so, don't do it, while other municipalities are doing very well. It shows that it is possible, even in today's situation, for municipalities to follow up this work. I have pointed this out to the municipalities on several occasions. It is a small paradox that the representative in his statement agreed that the municipalities should take over almost all of the responsibilities of child protection, but here he believes it is the responsibility of the state to do what the municipalities should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e911	It's not right, we think it's very important to strengthen municipal child protection, organise supervision, so it's done in a proper way, and follow Norwegian law. What's serious is that it goes year after year without the government doing anything. But now leave it in this round. At the same time: There are 164 children in line for a foster home. It's not just easy to find a foster home, it should of course be the right foster home to avoid too many abortions. But it's quite obvious that the authorities are failing to recruit new foster families, and it's quite obvious that you're also failing to guide and follow up these families in a good enough way. Obstetrical demand is, of course, mentoring schemes and 24-hour guidance because often a difficult situation exists with these children. Private actors shall contribute – the Salvation Army wants to recruit. Does the Council of State consider that this could be an important measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e919	We have already put in place an opportunity to mobilise private ideas to help get foster homes. It's a system I believe in. In addition, in 2011, we have had a series of powerful measures – at my discretion – to recruit more foster homes, to look into new groups, to be more attractive to look for in the children’s own network. We have had a trend in recent years in which both the proportion of children who are placed through child protection, who are placed in foster homes, have increased very clearly, and, of course, where the absolute number of children who have been placed in foster homes has increased greatly. The challenge today is that we don't just have enough foster homes, because we have more foster homes than the kids in line, but we need the right foster homes. We could have removed the queue now, but it would be completely wrong to do that if we put children in the wrong place. That's why we have to get even more foster parents, in addition to those we've already mobilized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e924	In the Committee's work on the budget presented by the Council of State, we were visited by a small association called adopted. They represent a relatively small part of a Norwegian adoption history, but some of the Norwegian authorities in very close proximity have reason to be proud of; what happened especially in the postwar period, where children were adopted away, at times without official approval and under conditions that were not at all for the child’s best. It's a small association where they help each other live with the consequences of our neglect in that area. The association has a meeting request over two months in the department, which the department has not responded to. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State will be willing to lend ear to the important stories they have to tell, and whether he will consider facilitating the work of the Association in some way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e931	I do not know enough about the association's work to be able to respond to it on a standing footing. If there's been a meeting with the department, I have an opportunity to get into it and of course I'm going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e936	Then I want to go back to what the Council of State started with, that is, the address paper series about the forgotten children, and what the last week told me about abuses that happen after child protection has taken care of. All properly critical questions are addressed to the Council of State when such issues are identified — of course it does. At the same time, I would also like to stress that much of the care of children, foster homes, relief homes, supervision, etc. is based on trust. That's why we'll never be able to guard against the kind of thing in a child's protection based on volunteering and the commitment of fellow humans. At the same time I have to ask, since a joint committee a year and a half ago asked for a review of the supervisory system: what has happened so far in the ministry, and when will the results and improvement of the supervisory system come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e943	We work with the supervisory system and the future of the supervisory system and have, among other things, have been given various proposals for new ways of doing this, including: from a working group that worked on this earlier this year. It will be natural, I think, to take a final position on the organisation of the future when we see the whole model we are going to organise for – the cooperation between state and municipality – in the protection of children in the future. But I am concerned that discussions about any alternatives to the way we organize this today will not become a sleeping pad for the municipalities that are now responsible. There are many municipalities that are doing well. A municipality like Verdal is possible to point to, for example, who has developed good practice on this. One of the most urgent things to do now is to spread the good examples. I also have an agreement with the KS to discuss how we can deal with this in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e951	Once again we have heard from this pulpit representatives from the Right and the Progress Party hammers loose with their thesis that the red-green family policy will hold a damp hand over the families of young children. My hope is that the representatives of these parties will sit down and read what we say and write, and not least how family policy works in practice. If they do, they'll hopefully find out that the families of young children have the freedom of choice they're looking for. Our reverential claim is that their version of freedom of choice becomes a coercion for the family, where the woman must again find her place on the kitchen bench. But I want to leave the kitchen bench to focus on how the kitchen bench might be funded. Then I want to focus on the growing debt problem we see developing, especially among adults. Debt collection is a terrible bad start to adult life. Therefore, it is important that we put this issue on the political agenda, so that we can seek to contribute to measures that can help people out of a difficult situation. Data from the Consumer Council show that the number of debt collection cases among young adults under the age of 25 has increased by 30 pst. in the last five years. By the end of 2010, the liabilities of the Nordics amounted to 63.2 billion. kr. This is an increase of 5.3 billion. kr from the previous year. Young adults under the age of 25 stood for 25 p.m. of these numbers. It's very serious. The consequences of such a development are that young adults are forced to seek out debt schemes. It's a development that we have to take seriously. There are enough reasons to lead young adults into a difficult debt situation. One keyword can be consumption loans and the simple access we have to such loans. The message to get a loan of NOK 300000 in five minutes, without guarantees and claims for bailiffs, we meet several times every day when we connect to the Internet. Not least we meet it on social media, where advertising is targeted specifically at young adults. We want to get rid of this kind of advertising. How we can do that, I don't have an answer, but I think we need to seek help from, among other things. our consumer authorities. That wish is hereby expressed. We also know that many banks offer credit cards in their customer packages. The Consumer Council believes that this is a little wise from the banks. I agree with the Consumer Council because, in my opinion, the banks contribute more or less consciously to creating an increased purchasing pressure through their clear leadership that a credit card is a necessary part of a customer relationship – leadings that often lead to an active use of credit cards, on which many young people unfortunately choose to participate. It should be in everyone's interest that such leadership in order to establish a customer relationship in a bank should be removed. I also believe that the banking industry will eventually agree with me. We have to ask questions about whether the financial institutions do a good enough job in the credit rating of unsecured debt. Although credit institutions have a deterrent and a credit rating requirement, we see that consumer debt creates the biggest problems for young adults. A medicine that can function in this context is that the lenders are obliged to assume greater responsibility when it is obvious that consumption loans should not have been granted. In this context, the creation of a national debt register can be a good tool for both lenders and borrowers. I am glad that such a register might soon be in place. I have said it from this pulpit, and I would like to repeat it: one of many measures that we in this Chamber can contribute to beyond what I have already mentioned is to assess the possibility of setting an interest rate ceiling on consumer loans. We are many who are strong in the belief that an interest rate cap will dampen the lending effect by making consumption loans less profitable. I would like to emphasise once again that the individual has a separate responsibility for debt collection. However, it is not surprising that financial institutions and others receive good help through their aggressive marketing of easily accessible money that contributes to many ports in a difficult economic situation. We are many who have long thought that the financial industry has to keep a little in mind. The lending policy for consumer loans is a ‘good’ example of just that. It is nice to record that the Right in its justification for its Document 8 proposal on the system of periodic salary or other income strongly argues for the same. Welcome to the Right. Our task is to provide good measures that initially prevent some from getting into such a situation. When they are there, we should be able to help get them out of a difficult economic situation. We all earn that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e979	In recent times, we've heard horror stories. We've had some shock. Media writes a lot about it. Yeah, we're talking about babysitting. I thought the stories from the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and until today were gone. But, unfortunately, they are not. For six years with this government, we've heard that there's going to be a child-rescue lift. Kåre Simensen, representative of the Workers' Party, is standing up here and saying that we are critical of the government holding a tight hand over the families in Norway. No, we're not critical of it, but we want the government to hold a hand over the child-restraints. What do young people in child protection think that the government and the Storting must know about child protection? What does the youth think about us at Stortinget and those in the department need to know about child protection? And what do we in the Biggest wonder about the reality of child protection? Dialogue is important. Knowledge is important. But who has this knowledge? Well, the professionals, the children in the child's protection. The change factory has taken this into account, and the youth there has presented their own big message. They're impatient. They can't wait for the government. They want to promote their own big message, and it's called the Good Child Protection. Themes that take a lot of space in this message are: adults in child protection moving and positioning in emergency locked doors limiting forced young people's influence in child protection The child protection professionals are doing an important job from my point of view. I believe that the government should also take this on board. What they focused on in the work was an experience of what has been good, and what has been less good in helping children in child protection, and what answer and advice they want to give to child protection, the government and us in the Stortinget. The youth that they themselves think is essential should be taken with us. They should be given the opportunity to propose changes to practices in order to ensure that even more people benefit from child protection. We need a change. Recordings are important, and recordings from professionals, children's protection, are important. And they're obvious. It's important to be heard, they say, "Who are we going to live with?" What should adults be like? Limits, locking, rushing, moving, handling, schools – what is the dream situation for these children? They also take up the tour: how to work in child protection? How do you work around these kids who need help? They're taking turns as a point. To the extent that the Council of State has responded to this, it is difficult to change the turn. We're dealing with the union. It's hard. Should this set a constraint? These themes require the children to capture. I have read a story from a child protection child named Monica, told in her own words: 'I start by telling you a little about my past, because it's of the past we can learn about the future. My name is Monica, I'm 18 years old, and I've been under child protection since I was 7. In these years I've moved more than 30 times, so I've tried most of it and learned a lot. Not all I have experienced is so good, and I don't think I'm alone in being left with that feeling. Almost three years ago, I came to a new foster home. I was not supposed to live there for a long time either. But after a while I found out that there was where I wanted to live. For the first time in my life, I saw the opportunity to experience what it was like to live in a normal family. It wasn't easy neither for me nor my foster parents. It's been a lot of trouble. I turned 18 in June this year and wanted to stay with my foster parents after I turned 18 for as long as possible. But because I thought child protection was so impossible, they put me on the hive. They did that two months before I turned 18, saying they wouldn't have anything more to do with me after I turned 18. My case handler wrote that by all means he would prevent me from moving back to my foster parents."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1029	It notices internationally what we've done on the kindergarten front. Public appropriations for kindergartens have been multiplied by three since 2003 and the nursery agreement – 10 billion. kr in 2003, and approx. 30 B.C.E. kr in 2012. This means that we can now enforce the right to children's playground, and that the crucial thing we need to focus on further, and on which there is a broad consensus in the Committee, is to ensure that we have kindergartens with high and good competence. In the 2012 budget, babysitting is increasing by 500 million. kr. As we promised in 2005, we have kept the maximum price – the price target – fixed and reduced the price by 12 500 kroner per kindergarten per year, and we are holding the course towards 1 750 2005 kroner. The value of not price-regulating the babysitting tariffs is approx. $770 for a family this year. In addition, there are a number of measures aimed at increasing the sector’s competence, in total about a quarter of them. 120 million. kr. A very important part of this is also the management training for masters at master level, with 300 places of study, which was established in the autumn of 2011. We have increased the number of places of study in pre-school teacher education since the government joined, but we have recruitment challenges in this education. We have therefore decided in 2012 to launch our own recruitment campaign to get more people to choose pre-school teacher education. That campaign is going to be extensive and noticed, and the price tag is about Twenty-five million. kr over 4 years. So we are now working to get a new pre-school teacher education from the 2013–2014 academic year. We believe that this is necessary to ensure that we have good quality, and better quality, after receiving a critical report on the quality of pre-school education. I am also very concerned that kindergartens have been an understudy area for a long time, and that it is necessary to gain more knowledge about how a person works well in kindergarten, what is a good kindergarten – especially more knowledge of what is a good kindergarten for the smallest. The composition of children who are in kindergarten today compared to a few years ago means that we have a lot more of the smallest children in kindergarten. It gives us some challenges, that we have to make sure that there is good quality in the offer they get. Now that the sector has moved from designating to framework funding, it is very important that we have good enough governance in the childcare sector. We get a report from the Children's Court Committee over Christmas, and that means we get a new discussion about what are the most important elements to ensure quality. We are also concerned that half of the kindergartens, which are private kindergartens, have stable, good and predictable framework conditions. Therefore, in a budget that has less room for action than previous budgets this government has been responsible for, we have increased the grant to the private kindergartens from 91 p.m. to 92 pst. of the municipal kindergartens. There are no parties on Stortinget that suggest that we have two recordings or continuous recordings in the case of kindergartens. The way to suggest two recordings per year or a continuous recording is to give a number of dollars – because it has a price tag. Doing two recordings a year has a price tag of 1.9 billion. kr. When they in the opposition go around talking as if they have proposed it, we just have to note that they have not done so. Proposals to impose more than one admission on municipalities in the year are now being made in the context of budgetary procedures. Good wishes and long-term intentions can be made throughout the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1053	First of all, I want to thank the Council of State for having now received an answer as to how much a running recording costs: 1.9 billion. kr. When the Progress Party has asked the Ministry of Finance, we have only been told that there is an unknown billion – but that is okay. What the Council of State had in mind is that we have a lack of preschool teachers, which is worrying. When we know there's going to be more to bet on kindergartens in the future, it's important that we put pre-school teachers in place. I'm aware that a lot of pre-school schools are struggling to get practical places for their students because the teachers at the schools say they can't accept pre-school students in practice. That's something the Council of State needs to focus on. Then you talk about having supervisors to maybe get more pre-school teachers, but also to get more men to work in kindergartens. We know that if we are to get more men into kindergartens and apply for pre-school teacher education, they must have more pay. What does the Council of State think you need to do to bet on more men in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1063	First, I have to correct an obvious misunderstanding: running recording costs an unknown billion. The price tag for two recordings this year, one more recording, is $1.9 billion. kr. Of course, it is because we then need to build up available capacity to be ready: empty kindergartens must be ready to receive more children. Because we have 60,000 vacant kindergartens in August every year, it is 1 September that is chosen as the time when all municipalities have to make sure that they have kindergarten places for those who were born before that date. Then I am a little surprised that the opposition is concerned that we cannot have a continuous recording, and that we do not have enough pre-school teachers. The available capacity we might have built up in order to have a continuous admission would have required pre-school teachers that we do not have today. Then I agree with the representative Horne that I want more mix, gender also, among pre-school teachers, and more men. Those who work well with this make sure they recruit more men at the same time. It's a little lonely to be one of another sex in a college.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1072	I'll stick to the kindergarten theme. What turns out after the last week’s budget debates around the municipalities is that several municipalities have used the childcare funds that have now been introduced into the framework to introduce local cash support, which ensures toddlers a freedom of choice that the government does not follow up. The intention of getting the nursery money into the framework was perhaps not that they would go to cash support. On Monday, the Council of State stood the Lighthouse in this hall and warned the municipalities not to introduce local cash support. The representative from the Central Party said that she supported her local politicians, and thought it was a very good idea to introduce local cash support. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council consider changing the financing possibilities or changing the possibilities for local politicians to introduce local cash support instead of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1081	No, I don't have any plans. What is the obligation of municipalities is to exercise the right to a nursery place. What some municipalities might hope for is that they can tempt young children's parents to choose cash support and thus get cheaper away from it. I strongly doubt whether they will achieve it, because the whole story of the nursery bet has shown that parents want it very much, is the ability to choose a nursery place. So I believe that these municipalities are doing something stupid, because all we know about kindergartens is that it's an incredibly important starting point for all children. And all we know about children with a minority background is that their language development is incredibly much better if they can start early in kindergarten. So the municipalities that choose this do it to better know what's good for children, because what we've seen is that there are far more minority parents who have chosen cash support than there are in the general population. In this way, minority families are paid to keep children away from kindergarten – unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1090	I am still fascinated by the ability of the Council of State to give characteristics of the thinking both to Norwegian parents around the country and to Norwegian local governments and politicians. Now it's like what's paying people to keep both minority kids and others away from kindergarten, that's what the government's just put up to -- for 1-year-olds well to notice. So how this relates, I don't know. My question concerns the fact that when the government first removes the state cash support for the two-year-olds, there are up to 1160 new kindergartens for a number of kids, who, at least in the case of those who receive full-time cash support, as far as I understand, are at least 8 000. What is the consequence for most families? Now I'm not going to bother the council anymore with poor families – she's had enough trouble with that before. But aren't the consequences for most of them $3,300 less per month, and not any kindergarten with language stimulation and what's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1099	The change in the cash support does not erode the entitlement of the parents to kindergarten. You have the right to a nursery place – finish that case! The question of how many would want a kindergarten based on the changes we have made in the cash support is that of some disagreement. We have been based on the child care survey from the Statistical Central Bureau. But of course it's an estimate – we don't know exactly how parents will think when the cash support increases for the smallest children, and how it will turn out. This is now a discussion between us and KS. It's a question that will be addressed in the consultation system, so that we get an agreement on what is the price tag on this. But the real fasit is not going to happen until we see how the parents choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1108	The last sentence was a very clear recognition that there is no one who knows whether we have full babysitting in Norway from August 1. That's interesting in itself. The council also acknowledges that for the vast majority of families this is about, it does not end with the kids getting into kindergarten or the mother getting into work, if that's what you thought was the problem with cash support. That's going to be $3,300 less a month. There may be a reason why the Distribution Committee, as the Council of State refers to, is constantly missing, recommended, if this is done, to actually propose compensatory measures. The government doesn't, and it puts these families in a very difficult situation. It obviously makes SV happy, as you hear the statements that come in this area. Which of the 1160 places is selected by cash support users – the worst integrated, those who speak the worst Norwegian, who suddenly get a job and send 1160 kids to kindergarten, or are the most integrated people who choose the 1160 places the government has set aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1117	This is a calculation that is as follows: We increase the cash support for them from one to a year and a half. So we're assuming that some of the smallest children will start later in kindergarten. So it's going to be a negative in relation to the nursery account. Then we remove the cash support for two-year-olds, and then we expect that several of the two-year-olds will want a place in the nursery. So this amount is a net amount and not a gross amount. The proposal will mean that several two - year - olds come to kindergarten. We don't quite know how many. What we know is that the municipalities have a duty – the municipalities have a duty – to exercise the right that all parents have for their one-year-olds when they are born before 1 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1122	The right reacts to government not escalating the level of non-discrimination when granting grants to private kindergartens as expected. We believe that children are entitled to a quality and equally good childcare facility whether they go to private or municipal kindergartens. We don't think it's fair that the private and municipal kindergartens are discriminated against. We also believe that it is important that the costs of private and municipal kindergartens are comparable, in order to ensure equal treatment of the calculation of grants. Can the Council of States confirm — or cancel — whether it considers it necessary to enter and obtain a basis for comparison?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1129	We are in close dialogue with the Landsförbunder of Private Barnehager on that issue. It's not about the percentage that private kindergartens are going to have in grants, and we're going to increase from 91 pst. to 92 p.m., but on how to calculate the grant to the private kindergartens in the municipalities, based on the cost of running the municipal kindergartens. For what appears in some municipalities is that, for example: the electricity costs are not allocated to each nursery or kindergarten at all, but are within a common part of the accounts, watchkeeping services, etc. This makes it a little difficult to figure out what is the basis for calculating the grant to the private kindergartens. But we have good contact with the PBL about this, we have good contact with the municipalities about it, and we have good contact with the county councillors to ensure that the basis for the calculation of the grant to the private kindergartens is as correct as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1134	It doesn't seem like the Right should have a line number. 2nd@item: inlistbox The president realized that Øyvind Håbreck wanted a third line, and then the representative was given the last line in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1137	This is an occasion I greatly appreciate, since I did not get an answer to my previous question. So there are 8,000 kids who have total cash support, who lose it, and the government has set up 1160 kindergartens, i.e. 12-15 pst, if I've calculated correctly. When you look at the families that receive full cash support, which 12-15 pst. of the families that are going to take advantage of the places the government has set aside? Is it the worst integrated – where mother speaks bad Norwegian, where kids speak bad Norwegian – who suddenly get a job and send the kids to kindergarten, or are they those who actually have a connection to the world of work from before, and are well integrated, who use the opportunity to apply for one of the 1,160 kindergartens and go to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1145	Based on our calculations, the estimates, what we think, are the following: Because we're increasing cash support for 1-year-olds, there will be 1,970 fewer one-year-olds applying. We're going to have to approximate this. Then we believe that removing the cash support for the two-year-olds means that over 3,000 new children will want a nursery place – and that's a net figure that we're operating with. We don't know this completely. But what we know is that we want to decorate the public money for the young children's parents and the two-year-olds in such a way that it pays for all children to go to kindergarten. The reason why we propose to remove the cash support for the two-year-olds is that we have a number of samples that have looked at: what are good offers for children in terms of language development, social skills, etc.? Well, it's actually encouraging them to go to kindergarten. That's why we're setting up the government heads that way. We support this in our own experiences, in Norwegian research, in international research. International attention is much greater about how important it is to think big about the little ones now than it was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1153	In the course of two years, the Municipal Committee has visited 12 counties. We have met more than 100 rapporteurs, and child protection has been the subject of many of the meetings. There can be no doubt that Norwegian municipalities want to give priority to child protection, and that people throughout the country recognise that children who are subjected to care failure are a truly vulnerable group. Still, everything doesn't work as it should. The municipalities report poor communication between government and municipal child protection, and serious errors occur. On 1 December, a report from the County of Oslo and Akershus on how the child protection service in Gjerdrum could prevent what has become known as the Alvdal case. The new municipality of residence also failed. Child protection was notified, but nothing happened. Several have already mentioned the discovery by the Address Paper that over the last eleven years, 52 children have been subjected to abuse by persons who would provide them with care. It's shocking and despairing reading. I agree with what Linda Hofstad Helleland said about how important it is that this occurs. The things the Address Paper writes about, and the so-called Alvdal case, are some examples of the system not always working. It is serious that the differences are large, for example: in the case of supervisory arrangements, from municipality to municipality. Municipal Child Protection now gets the biggest promise of 20 years, and we're on the right track. Although the overall scepticism of earring is great in Norwegian municipalities, I feel that there is an understanding in the municipalities that it has been necessary to strengthen child protection in order to increase capacity and competence. Last year, 240 million were earmarked. SEK to 400 new posts. Today, we are adopting an increase of 50 million. kr in earmarked funds for municipal child protection. In addition, resources are available to increase competence. The priority shall be given to small child protection services taking the initiative of inter-municipal cooperation. That's good, because small professional environments are a challenge. Fortunately, more and more municipalities cooperate on child protection. This municipality of Alvdal is now participating in an intermunicipal cooperation with Tolga and Tynset. It's been a good grip. A report from Telemark’s research shows that child protection cooperation has resulted in more children getting help. The fact that several people are looking for child protection is explained by the fact that partners, such as schools and kindergartens, see that child protection manages to take care of, sees that it benefits, and that it is easier to seek child protection in a slightly larger place, such as Tynset. I think it's nice that right-wing boasts of red-green Trondheim in their remarks, but I have to comment on the claim that they strengthen municipal child protection. While it is true that the Right makes use of funds for the protection of municipal children, the budgetary option at the same time means a breakdown of the state element of child protection and a transfer of resources from the public to the private – and more importantly: the Right will also change the rules for corporate tax, which involves a systematic redistribution from a majority of Norwegian municipalities to a few municipalities, such as Asker and Bærum. A lower community economy does not provide better child protection. Some municipalities are struggling, said the representative of Hofstad Helleland. That's right, and more would have been if the Right Changes in the Municipal Economy had been adopted. The many rapporteurs of the municipal committee have met are different in all ways, but they have one thing in common: none of them want to return to the time when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. Finally, some words about adoption. I am very pleased with the council's signals that he will follow up the Children's Protection Panel's recommendations to make it easier for foster parents to adopt small children they have cared for for for more than two years. It will give children greater stability and security than today. In addition, I think there is a need to look at the rules and process of foreign adoption. In a world where 220 million children are orphans, it is a great paradox that last year the number of foreign adoptions to Norway was 344 and is on its way down. We only cooperate with about half as many countries as Denmark, and we do not have adoption cooperation with those countries where the needs are greatest. At the same time, Norwegian couples are waiting for adoption, many are waiting for years. Of course, potential parents should be carefully considered, but today’s process is unnecessarily long and bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1174	The last week, equality has shown us that there is something that makes the world go forward. When the three women received the Peace Prize on 10 December, equality was really seen on the agenda. These women work for more equality, against violence against women, for education and for free elections. They are a great inspiration for women all over the world – even in fact for our work for more equality here at home. Although we have achieved a lot, we should not take it for granted. The economic situation in Europe is serious. Many countries have large budget deficits and a sharp increase in public debt. We're lucky here, and we're fine. Never before have so many people been at work. Only in the last year has there been 50,000 new jobs created here at home. 73.3 p.m. by women at work. It is a great contrast to, for example, other countries of Europe; in Greece the number is 48,1 pst. and in Italy 46,1 pst. Maybe they should learn a little bit from Norway, but then they also have to put in place a proper child and family policy that can provide a basis for both in the family to be at work. We still have an important way to go home here too. As a result, I was unbelievably happy when the government presented the Action Plan for Gender Equality in the fall. What it says is that the government's objective is to have a more balanced gender balance in several professions and settings, and that the government wants to stimulate more untraditional educational choices for girls and boys in further education and higher education. This is like music in my ears. In the 1980s, when I went to the professional ball and later to the Engineering Ball, it was a pretty big focus on choosing untraditionally. Many took the opportunity and broke out of traditional coercive structures in the choice of education and occupation. That's good, but what's not as good is that now we're more traditional than ever. Norway is on the verge of having a sex-shared labour market. Then I would like to say that it is important to continue training and higher education. Many thought it was very cool when there are girls in the board and in the rental settings, and I agree very much with that. But when I'm talking about a profession at the trade union level, people have an eye. It seems that there is always so much less likely for action for more men in kindergartens than for example. for girls in typical people's professions. Equality is important no matter what job you have. A project that I know very well is "Wives in the Car and Electro". It is also mentioned in the action plan as an important measure. In fact, the girls in Bodø who have participated in the project have now begun to invite girls on the youth ball to their own day – girls learn girls. You can read about it in the EL & IT Association magazine. It's a very nice article that actually makes girls choose untraditional. The ‘Wives in the Car and Electro’ project has been a few years and it has produced good results. But what's a shame is that one that's usually dependent on fireplaces when one set starts a project. There is no one in the county who is in charge of further education, who has or takes responsibility for equality. There's a lot of exciting happening in those states where there's a fireflies. Where they're more traditional, it happens very little. As High Skeeie, leader of the Equality Selection, said to the Newspaper: ‘It turns out that where there are people who are interested in integrating equality into their work, they do. Is the place where there is no one interested, well then they don't." That's what I thought I should get hold of. I thought the Action Plan for Gender Equality was a very good starting point for further work on it. It may not be possible for equality work to be random, depending on whether a person is a little interested or not. It is also about empowerment, both among advisers and among teachers. It also stands as an own measure in the plan, but it is also important here that professional trainers are given a higher level of competence. I want to end with something said by two girls. Lise says: I was invited to an experience day at an electro- and mechanical workshop, especially for girls in Secondary Secondary Secondary School – then I decided to search for electro. Other saying: I have a father and two bridges that are electricians, but I am the first to have been train electricians. These girls are good role models.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1205	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1208	I will take the floor at the end of the debate just to comment on the tone of this debate on what is most important to us, namely our children. I think we all agree that our most important job is to secure the children's safe and good framework. Magne Raundalen has said that the purpose of being an adult is to protect children. Then the Storting must also be grown and able to protect our smallest. We disagree on a number of points in this room, but we should take our responsibility together to chisel out a policy that can stand up for the next 30-40 years. That's the job that the Council of State has started with all these samples and all the investigation that's going on. Because then we have to spend some time succeeding with this. We'll have several opportunities to discuss this in this future room as well, and it would be nice to have a broad deal on this important issue. So the Right has spent a lot of the debate growing up towards the government, but it has ended up with three political goals. Firstly, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland claims that there is a social experiment that the Council of State has initiated that more children go to foster homes and fewer go to institutions. But this was signaled in a big message submitted by the Bondevik II government, when the Right was involved and decided on this field. Then Hofstad Greece has cancelled the promise of ongoing kindergarten admissions, and that's interesting enough in itself. So she insists on the government because they spend time cleaning up a reform that the Right itself helped implement. It reminds me a little of the child who has rotted in his room, and who stands and jaws on his parents because they don't clean quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1219	At the end of the debate I want to mention that I think it's three times I've now asked two different government councils about which of the 15 pst. which receives full cash support, which will visit the nursery facilities provided by the government: Are they well integrated, or are they poorly integrated? Then I also want to draw up a perspective that has been somewhat too little affected in the debate so far, namely that, as an underlying discussion in many of the issues we are discussing in family policy, it is about the relationship between working life and family life. In the red-green rhetoric, we are constantly a message conveying that family life needs to be adapted to the needs of working life. Macroeconomic conditions, competitiveness, as was said in the cash support debate here by day, should be given overall consideration, and family life should be adapted accordingly. We note it in the cash support debate, we note it in the debate on parental leave, we have noticed it in the debate on max time and night-open kindergartens. We've had that dividing line several times here in the hall, also today, and that's interesting. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is the working life that is to adapt to the family and the consideration of the young, and not the other way around. Then, on several occasions, reference has been made to the proposal of the representative promoted by the Christian People's Party yesterday, where we lift up the parenthood and the basic premises for the care of young people in our society, children's legislation. Yes, we challenge an overall debate on the fundamental issues. We're going to challenge the left side of whether time is not ripe to say that men should have equal responsibility to women in the Children's Act. We're going to challenge the right-hand side of whether the family is an independent entity, or whether the family exists on delegated authority from the state through various kinds of administrative decisions and other decisions that apply to families increasingly. So I don't expect full agreement on all these questions in this room from the first moment. On the contrary, I expect that here are the important things to be discussed, and on which there is disagreement, but I hope that we will be able to raise the debate beyond specific individual questions, and that there will be an overall debate on how to protect young people through our child legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1230	There were a few greetings to the representative of Hofstad Helleland and Right from Stokkan-Grande that I would like to comment on. The first concerns this with the construction of institutions for the construction of foster homes. It is true that something was put on the bet by the Bondevik II administration. The question is, what research has been seen in this area and what signals have been received. After all, we're talking in six years, it's a good time. We find it disturbing to build up institutional services too quickly, simply because we are concerned about the loss of important expertise and an important tool to get to the tailoring system necessary for foster homes. We don't think there's any fasitant answer to the question of whether it has to be foster home or institution – there's going to be a need for both. As for that balance point, we might think that there's going to be a little bit of a rush in the swings right now. The representative Stokkan-Grande wondered a little bit about changing a reform that the Bondevik II government started. I've said it before from this pulpit, and I'd like to say it again: we have no record of holding back this reform. We thought it was right when it was started. There was a broad debate in Stortinget, and there was broad agreement on it. But if six years of practice and difficulties show us that this was not right, then it's the best of the children that counts, not the performance of one or the other design of a reform. We will be open to make changes to this, and we have clearly signaled that we might want another model – or at least a shift towards something that will be based on stronger municipal solutions. What we see is that in the six years that have passed, the government has, on the contrary, held back from this reform. You take it into account and you have very little will to soften it. Among other things, we see that the pilot projects we had with regard to municipal involvement have simply been removed, and the stimulus that has been put in place against municipalities that want cooperation, which want greater responsibility, has also not been present. So let's agree that it's the best thing for children to count. We're not going to have any performance on either model or solution, but we need to have a good documentation and a much broader research approach than what we think the government is putting up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1243	It was said from the pulpit here that many new employees have arrived in the field of child protection, and that is why we should also discuss a level of competence. We should see new ways, and we don't have to spend as much time as this Stokkan-Grande from the Workers' Party says is necessary to get started. I don't think the government is offering the child protection phase when they come up with the case. There are many things that need to be started, many things that need to be changed, many things that need to be discussed, but we need to be able to have an ambition for a clear and comprehensive leverage for child protection. Child protection work must be based on the needs of the child. The need for competence and a level of competence are necessary in order to achieve the objectives of better child protection. We have to help the vulnerable children throughout child protection. This can contribute to strengthening child protection as a field of our own, by discussing this. Specialised knowledge, competence and new occupational groups, e.g. design therapists are alternatives that should be considered. Gestalttherapie is a direction in humanistic psychology that should be used. They're in the health system, both public and private. They see vulnerable children and the needs of young people. In my view, they meet the requirements of the field of practice. Gestalterapeuter is a new profession in this field. This will enable qualified assistance to be provided to children and young people and their families. It may not be the case that only child protection educators and socionomists can work in the field of child protection when there are other qualified professional groups who are competent and who will ensure the quality of these services. Is there any knowledge of what needs to be done? Is that the money that's on? Then it's strange that not an SV has raised their eyebrows, at least in terms of money, if that's what it says, when you hear that the purchase of warplanes has a budget of over 90 billion. kr almost before we have ordered the planes. It cannot be money, nor can it be competence. Now the patience of child protection – and also for those of us who work on this policy – begins to run out. Now we don't have time to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1252	The President would point out that when you refer to the opinions or posts of a co-representative, which Ib Thomsen is fully entitled to do, you refer to him and not to ‘this’ Stokkan-Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1255	It's not to cut out time, but it's an important topic we're discussing. Stokkan-Grande was concerned about whether there was the tone or the temperature of this debate. It may not have been the very high temperature here, and maybe that's because we agree on a lot of family policy. But there are a few things I want to comment on. When the representative Kåre Simensen talks about the right-hand side thinking that the government parties have sticky hands, and that the right-hand side wants women to go home to the kitchen bench, I just want to clear it up a little. The progress party believes and believes that no matter who stands by that kitchen bench, the family around that kitchen table manages to distribute the weeks with the parental leave, without us politicians going in and controlling what's going on around either the kitchen bench or the kitchen table. So it was a pleasure for the representative Gina Knutson Barstad to say that SV was to increase child welfare. She felt that child-responsiveness was an important part of the fight against poverty. So it remains to be seen whether it's going to come out on next year's budget. But now there is at least a little hope that the families of young children in this country can get a small boost if SV is able to get a pass on to it. The Progress Party has not been in government, but the Progress Party has strengthened child welfare every year in its alternative budget because it is an important part. Unfortunately, however, the Progress Party has not received a majority in its budget. So back to the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, who is hotly talking about the fact that the most important work we're doing in this room is to secure the growth of children and to ensure that children are safe. I agree with the heart. I want to say so that I hope we can go into 2012 with the goal that together we will be able to do better every day especially for children's protection. The opposition has now for two years tried to lift the debate into this Chamber, and we have made many proposals without getting them through. But when Arild Stokkan-Grande now opens up and hopes for a broad settlement in the child protection case with regard to the proposition that comes from the government some time or another, I just want to say that the Progress Party warmly welcomes such a settlement. At least we will help to strengthen child protection in the future, to listen to the children and to give their children a better daily life than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1271	I welcome the invitation to dialogue from several parties – and now, lastly, the Progress Party – on this very important issue. I can assure you that the Council of State is already very well running that particular work. If we are to have broad agreements, it is important that the opposition is not dogmatic in relation to ideology, for example. private, public or non-profit institutions. The reason I asked for the word was really just a little reflection from this Stokkan-Grande. It was an interesting signal that came from the Right and the Olemic Thommess, which I just want to comment on as a summary of the process that we are now in. I think that it is a sympathetic feature that you are not locked to what you have done before, when you admit that you have done wrong. What Thommes concluded with is worth commenting. He says that he believes that more research and research is needed than the government has provided. Yes, it stands in stark contrast to the whipping that the Right has tried in the past, almost an attempt to ridicule the fact that a number of samples have actually been put down, a number of investigative work, to actually achieve a successful reform that will last for a long time. That's why I hope it will end that kind of simplification from the Right in the future, and that we take the necessary processes, go the necessary path, to make sure that we get the best solution for our children, in a policy that will last for the next 30–40–50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1280	First of all, I think a 30-40 year perspective is probably beyond what we can expect from what we're now going to figure out. All the experience tells us that the world is changing faster than that. On several occasions, the right has called for a broader research on child protection. It's not just about what you're doing, but it's also about who you're listening to. We have pointed out on some occasions – and now I am a little back in time – that we believe that at least the research made available to us from the department is too narrow and taken from some given environments. Then I must also be allowed to remind the representative Stokkan-Grande that we are talking about six years of government when there have been significant problems. I would like to credit the government for positive developments at least in the last year, but after six years of work, we still see a child protection that is struggling in key areas and on very critical points. Then I don't think you should be surprised that the opposition shows a bit of impatience. It is clear that it is a problem to set in motion large - scale and long - term research work that is progressing far in time. There's a way to push the problems in front of them. So, of course, it's also necessary to do that. But we believe that the government must tolerate a significant expression of impatience here, and that we need to address issues along the way – perhaps in a more offensive way than what is done. The press coverage of the last few days, for example: The problem of assault, which has been up here, is not something you can sit with your hands in jail and wait to get hold of. Until that, it's just too dramatic a backdrop about what this is all about. So yes, we're responding to groceries and investigations, and we're going to deal with it when it comes. But we will probably also continue to press on in relation to the need to also address some questions along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1295	Øyvind Håbreck has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1298	At the end of the debate, I would like to say that I appreciate the approach taken by the debate, with a constructive approach from several teams to find solutions to some of the most important issues we are discussing. But then I want to remember something – both the representative Stokkan-Grande and the representative Thommes contributed to it. The representative Stokkan-Grande refers to the reform carried out by the Bondevik II government and the mistakes that have been made, and since we are constantly being held responsible for the problems associated with the Buff et, I just have to remind you of, and I hope that you will remember later debates, that state agencies can be established by state decisions, but then they do not live their own lives. In fact, there is a government and a government council that is responsible for governing these agencies from day to day throughout the year – for six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1305	I just have to admit that I didn't intend to extend the debate any particular way. But after hearing Mr Thommessen's comments on the Child Protection Reform, it was absolutely necessary to make some comments. One year had gone by the child protection reform when the red-greens took over. I do not think it is right to accuse the red-green government of not having implemented a new child protection reform, that we have not taken drastic action to change the organisation of child protection – when that reform had worked for one year when we took over. If there is something that takes time, there are adjustments and conversions. If we had thrown the child-restraint employees into a new transition in the middle of the time we've been running, I think there would have been reasonable chaos in the child-restraint that we have today. Then it's like we've had continuous improvements in child protection ever since the red-green government was in place. It was a fact that the child protection reform left behind by the Bondevik II government was heavily underfunded. We've spent over 1 billion. kr to fund the child protection reform, so there's been a lot of money spent on this during the entire period we've been running. In addition, we have strengthened children's rights. We've made sure, for the first time, that children's protection is heard. We've had studies on how they're experiencing the situation. We have strengthened the situation, so it is much clearer that concerns messages are to be properly registered and listed. We have expanded the use of police certificates, and a lot of individual measures have been taken through the law to ensure children’s rights – and we will continue. We're going to continue to strengthen children's rights. We are now doing the greatest escalation of municipal child protection over 20 years through the manning situation – only in the current year have we increased the staffing of municipal child protection by 12 pst. – and this we're going to continue. So the statement that always comes from the opposition, that it does nothing, and that we're two hands with the situation of the kids who have the most difficulty, is directly wrong. But what we can admit is that there's still a big job to do because there's a lot of kids who don't get the help they need. The revelations made in the Address Paper over the past few weeks tell us that we still have to stand on and make sure that these kids get the help they need, and make sure that we have a competent child protection system that ensures that children do not suffer from injuries and are subjected to new abuses when they are under the care of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1321	Let me just briefly come up with a few things that have been up in the debate now towards the end. One concerns the acquisition of knowledge in the field of child protection. I agree with the representative from the Right that it is important to get knowledge from different sources and different disciplines. There is no doubt that we can benefit from even more research efforts related to child protection. It will do Norwegian child protection well. At the same time, I think that precisely the discussion calls, hopefully also in the Right, for some reflection that the Right has been the most angry critics of the initiatives taken by the government since the 2009 elections, in order to gain additional knowledge as a basis for a debate on the future organisation of child protection. I have taken three main steps to get it done. I have launched a broad evaluation of the child protection reform. There are a number of different disciplines involved in this work. It will now be published in a short time. I am quite sure that the opposition in it will also find material that can affect the conclusions of the opposition parties to have in future organisation and that shows that there is a need for safer and a solid knowledge base before we make final decisions. In addition, I put down the Child Protection Panel, which was ridiculed by the Right when it was appointed, but which I now see that the opposition is still drawing forward as a positive contribution to the debate. In addition, we have the selection to discuss the biological principle – the debate around it – that will present its position in February. We have very good knowledge, and I appreciate the post from the Right about it. I hope that also means that we can leave that form of debate where the Right for a while was terribly concerned about making our initiatives laugh to gain more knowledge. Quite briefly also to the claim that this government has built up institutional child protection: there is no disagreement that we are going to have both institutions and foster homes. But there has been broad professional agreement, and it has been anchored, among other things. in the main message to which this was referred from the previous government, that one should have a turn towards increased use of foster homes. It's done. But it's not that the institutional sector has been built up. We have free capacity in the institutional sector, and I think that when we settle the status, we will see that there are more children in institutions today than it was when the reform was implemented in 2004, but the proportion is lower. So there's nothing in development that threatens to kill the protection of the institution's children – and that's good, because we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1334	It's interesting to hear representatives from government parties talk about everything that's done in child protection. It's a habit they've gone to in the last few years. They're very good at talking about child protection. There are many nice words and phrases, but there is unfortunately no action. That's what the kids out there are suffering from today's child-restraint weaknesses. They don't have as long as the government has. It's after all six years with four different state councils that are going to start from scratch, we've been witnessing to. There are no concrete changes, and I agree with the Council of State Lighthouse that we should have knowledge. Yes, that's why Right also grants and wants more money for research in the field – to know a little about what actions work, and which ones don't work. But the government parties cannot talk from the fact that nothing has happened. So it's six years – where they've been responsible for child protection every day. They have run every day – and have had every opportunity – and then there are investigations, selections and panels, and that is good and good, but it must be possible to address some of the challenges that we see at the same time. I miss more impatience on behalf of the children from the red-green government. It is quite remarkable that the press is discovering the seriousness of the situation and is producing statistics and figures that shock the opposition, shocking politicians here at Stortinget. There is unfortunately little to be done about concrete measures — and it is suffering to young people. There has been an increase in the number of children under child protection measures from around 20 000 in 1996 to 46 500 in 2009. This suggests that we are still going to see a large increase in the number of child protection cases, and today we are far from being able to give these kids the help they are entitled to. When it's done so little in these six years, I think it's amazing that you can just lean back and say that there's going to be a new big message – in a year or two, we'll see now. It's the red-green stuff to perform in eight years – delivering one big message. Then you have a good time on behalf of the children, there's nothing else to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1347	I thought this debate really went to the end, but when there are some accusations, it's hard not to comment on it. I just want to repeat what has been said very many times. It's very strange to say that nothing has happened in six years, when at the same time you stand and frame up everything we've actually done – by putting down samples, investigating and seeing how we want to design the child protection of the future. It is clear that this government has every opportunity to do something, but when we came into government in 2005, there was a new reform that was about to take place. We only know from kindergarten how long it will take for municipalities to become a good nursery authority, and not least to adapt to major changes in the sector. It takes one year, two years – and we get reports that there is a lot that is not good – but it is clear that we are constantly sitting and monitoring the situation in the municipalities. And we have now concluded that the system you have today is not sustainable, so you want a change. The representative from the Right says that you have to have the media to dig this out -- that's not quite true, because if the government and the government had felt sure everything in child protection was good, you wouldn't have put all the samples down and started to investigate the situation to make a change. Everyone has known that there are things that have not been good, that is why changes have been made. Then it is not that the only thing you intend to do is to send a big message. What this government is currently working on is providing a solution for what you want to be the child protection of the future. Then we are also challenged by concrete measures. I do not know exactly what the representative from the Right is actually doing, but we do, among other things. allocated a lot more money, and it brings some more people. We have done a lot in terms of empowerment. We've done a lot to recruit more foster homes. All of these things help to make sure that we get a raise for child protection. So there's some things about the system, with the problem distribution, that we want to do something about. Then we don't want to do what the opposition has encouraged, that's just to take one thing at a time, but you want to see the whole thing. This is necessary, because everything is related to everything – including child protection. You can see that a proper reform is needed, which goes deep into these issues, in order to get a system that is better connected than what today's system is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1360	I have to speak again after the speech by the representative of Hofstad Helleland. I have to say that I react quite strongly to a form of debate that is going to try to swear to their opponents by claiming that they do nothing. Then a political debate is reduced from being a sensible and constructive debate on different solutions to a moral contest about who is most concerned with child-restraints. We can't have such a discussion. It is repeated several times in the post of the representative that there is no action. So this fall alone, we have addressed the specific problems of foster home failure by imposing requirements for exhaustive police certificates. We have taken up the big debate, which we have had several times in this room, about the failure of institutions by updating and sending out a new rating regulation. This year, we have implemented a new drug plan to improve care for children with drug problems. And this year, we're increasing the municipal child protection crew by 10-12 pst. The right very much needs to make alternative proposals on what to do. But a form of debate that just goes on repeating that the government doesn't do anything, when we do a lot of things, I think is special, especially when the Right has so little clarified its own policy. It is not known how the Right wants the future division of responsibilities between the State and the Municipality to be, except that you want more to the municipalities. It is not known how the Right will organise the oversight system, except that you want it to be done. We all want that. But we cannot have such an easy way of dealing with important political issues. We must have a constructive discussion. That's what children's protection needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1369	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1372	It's going to be very short. The fact that the Council of State goes up here and is morally indignant that it points out that there is too little for children's protection in six years, then gets to be, but it's actually the SV and the rest of the red-greens who are responsible – that's what you've had for six years. The fact that there is a child protection in crisis that calls for political courage, political action, is being taken into account by the SV, and it must be allowed to point out in such a debate without being met with the level of the debate. It must be possible to discuss what is not working. We hear enough of these celebrations and the praises of what the government is doing for child protection, otherwise in the social debate. Then, when you are responsible for child protection in crisis, you have to be patient to hear what is not working in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1383	Several have not asked for the floor for part 1 of the debate on the suspension of the Family and Culture Committee. We're going to part 2. The President will refer to the debate which has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1388	Norway scores high on all social capital targets. It's about networks and trust, whether people have friends and people around them, and whether people trust social institutions and the system. Former prime minister Guttorm Hansen formulated the dream of society beyond the welfare state. For his generation, the welfare state was not the ultimate goal, but a tool for achieving higher goals – call it the dream of a good life. If you're to live a good life, you have to feel that you're important to people around you, you have to feel that you're useful, that you're part of society, and that you're living in freedom. The welfare systems we have in the country are the only means of helping everyone to live the life they want, in interaction with others, whether in parental leave, kindergarten, health services, school, Nav or care for the elderly. Throughout our lives, we know that we need each other to become free people, and we nordics form a strong community. We are the necessity of each other. Maybe we're moving towards society beyond the welfare state. When I went into town yesterday, I had to stop when I saw dozens of babysitting children waiting in line to deliver gifts to poor children at the Christmas row of the Salvation Army. Is there any more beautiful expression of solidarity than children helping children? Trust and cohesion are built from the first breaths on the mother's breast to the last breath with a safe hand to hold in. It is in this landscape that the first ambitions about the cultural promise were designed. People want to create the community, but the big community can contribute, because the political choices have consequences. What kind of societies you build and what institutions you set up have a big impact on people's lives. Dag Wollebæk points out in the book «Social Capital in Norway» several possible explanations that trust levels have increased more in Norway and the Nordic countries than in the rest of Europe. Firstly, both the level of education and the level of wealth are increasing. In addition, the differences in income are small, and the political leaders behave somewhat well. If you are in a situation far below the economic ladder, with little prospects for improvement, future-optimism is weakened, and it creates ground for a sense of exploitation. Trust makes it easier to get out of so-called social traps where one prioritises short-term self-interest over the interest of the community, because one expects everyone else to do the same. However, the fact that Norway is characterised by high trust is also due to a strong civil society. We have strong organisations that confirm the rationality of working together. Norway is at the top of the world of voluntary participation, both in terms of the proportion of the population employed by non-governmental organisations and the number of memberships per capita. In addition, Norway scores high in terms of direct contact between citizens and politicians and public officials, and low in targets of corruption. The number of friends we have in Norway is also higher than in many other countries. Wollebæk points out that the level of confidence is falling in stages where public sector and welfare services are being built up. Some might think that the level of confidence has fallen in Norway after 22 July, but in fact all kinds of trust have increased after this summer’s terrible actions. Most trust has increased in relation to people with a different background or religion. Many have pointed out that we must not be naive in this country. It's important. But trust is a strength, not a weakness. In Eastern Europe, we see a marked decline in overall confidence. In southern Europe too, confidence goes down. Two days ago I was at the hospital in Levanger. At the end of the corridor there was a man who was obviously tormented. He trembled at his raised hands, and he came with steady, uncontrolled exclamation. After a while, an elderly woman walked, and she sat down at the piano and played. First, it created a whole new mood in the passage, but what was especially to see was that the man immediately fell to rest. This shows what music and culture can do to us. I have even observed a man who was hard hit by Parkinson's using a metronome after a short time could go again as if he were 30 years old. The sight of his face as he looks down on his legs and does not understand what is happening, I will always have with me. In the health sector, there is an increasing use of drugs. We should strive for new occupational groups to enter the care sector. I would like to call for a new profession – culture caregivers – people who can see the whole human being and its possibilities, people who can create activity where there is passivity today. We know that active people stay fresher. The health study in Nord-Trøndelag shows that activity and a meaningful daily life are as important as tablets. At that time, it must be a central objective to ensure activity and cultural provision for everyone across the country. One of the best examples of this is the Holiday for everyone under the direction of the Red Cross. Red Cross cooperates with school health, child protection, social services and other public services to provide families who need it with a good holiday experience. This gives children confidence, and not least self-respect. I am pleased that the government has increased the appropriations for holidays for everyone – in the budget of the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion – but we must continue, because many children are still in line. The state should contribute as much as possible, but the municipalities also have a responsibility. A good example in this way is Moss, which gives 150 000 kroner to Moss Red Cross on condition that 25 people from Moss municipality will travel on vacation. Several municipalities should follow suit. It is our job and our responsibility to contribute to the continued prosperity of volunteering and cultural life. In all our disagreements in large and small matters, I think we are all united in the wish that Norway should continue to be a strong community of trust and cohesion. We have different solutions for how we can best ensure this, but no one should doubt that the cultural promise helps to increase community, common identity, trust, pride and cohesion. One of the best examples of this is Rock City Namsos, which several in this room were delighted to attend the opening of earlier this fall. Here musicians, volunteers, industry, municipalities, states and states have joined forces in a broad partnership, and we see that Namsos evolves into a city where it sucks and boils, and where new musicians, new educational opportunities, new jobs, new industries are emerging. This shows that together we can achieve so much more. To quote Hans Rotmo: ‘The one that comes to seawater’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1421	It seems that some Norwegian elite clubs in Norway today interpret it as being within the VAT compensation scheme, and even that they are within a system that prevents them from paying taxes. The government has promised a tightening-up plan in respect of the compensation scheme, they have even provided a guarantee. Then the representative stands on the pulpit and is emboldened by seeing that little children add gifts under the Christmas tree to the Salvation Army. But he cares about the cats that when people give money in the black pot, the Salvation Army – or Red Cross – has to pay VAT on this money, or not on this money, but on what they are going to buy on and help others weak. Is it reasonable to pay VAT when it is collected that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1426	No, that's not fair, nor is it right. The Salvation Army and other humanitarian organizations must not pay VAT on money collected, so people can still safely give money both in the black pot and elsewhere, in the assurance that no money will be lost to the state in VAT. But if the Salvation Army is to buy a cup of coffee, or coffee powder, which they are to distribute, they will have to pay VAT – as everyone else will have to do when they are at the store. Throughout the country, we have seen a fantastic boom in the voluntary sector in recent years. We're going to give over 600 million in 2012. kr in VAT compensation. That's the biggest bet ever. In addition, we are engaged in a lot of simplification work, and there is a close dialogue with the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1433	The representative Stokkan-Grande pulled up, I thought, an interesting post – in a good social democratic tradition. It was the broad picture of society; it was the importance of culture to all the qualities of society. A lot of that we'll probably agree on when it comes to the problem. But in that tradition, social democracy, or the Workers' Party, also has a tradition of wanting to put their own, we have to say, values and governance mechanisms into this, to build the society you want. In the budget setting, there is a note that shows that more Norwegian music is wanted in the music institutions – in the major orchestras. It brings me to this with an arm's length distance. Where does the boundary between governance and what must come from below and what is in the institutions themselves? Is it really the case that the representative Stokkan-Grande thinks that it should be possible to instruct the major music institutions with regard to more use of Norwegian music?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1438	There's an important question that's being asked there, for the orchestras themselves should have the opportunity to decide their repertoire. But at the same time, the government is transferring a quarter of a billion. kr to the orchestras, and it must be reasonable to expect that Norwegian music, both old Norwegian music and new Norwegian music, is also played. This has come first and foremost as an expectation from the Norwegian Composers' Association, who has had a survey that shows that Norwegian music is played very little today – too little, at least after their eyesight. After that, as a result of both the comment we have in Stortinget today, and a dialogue with the Council of State, and the Norwegian Composers' Association and between the orchestras, there is now a wide range of orchestras that have a work going on considering how to play more Norwegian music. A measure may, for example: is to stimulate more composers to present their newly written music, and in this way to produce more Norwegian composers for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1443	The representative Stokkan-Grande referred to the VAT compensation scheme and mentioned the 600 million. kr as a ‘Betting’. If I don't remember wrong, the representative used the words historically. It may explain why the budget has set a priority where it has been balanced against other things, and has come to the conclusion that it should not be implemented and announced the increase in 2012. When it is then referred to as a bet, I just want to ask for a clarification on how this arrangement really is to understand. Is the VAT compensation scheme an aid scheme/measure by the government, or is it a compensation for VAT paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1448	The grip that is being done in the budget now is the first step towards achieving the objectives that we have in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's a handshake to the voluntary sector, so that they get the opportunity to get an ever better economy, so that we get an ever stronger commitment. And then we've had some good news lately from Norwegian Typing. We see that what you assumed could be slightly less money, seems to be a bigger profit, because people play like never before because the first prize doesn't go in. There we also have the opportunity to contribute, through the engagement we see around typing. I really think I have to bring in a tippeckon myself!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1455	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1458	When the government makes proposals to the government budget, the success factor for each department is often measured by whether the budget increases, is stable or has a decline. And when the cultural budget increases its framework, it is declared that they are winners in that way. It's an easy way to measure success. I really do miss a debate on what these means are used to, and what you want to get back for what is granted, just a political, ideological thinking about this. That's where we in the Progress Party separate ourselves from the other parties and from the government. We also raised that debate for a time when it was about the budget of the police, whether you get enough money left for the funds that you give, and that raised an interesting debate. It's a debate we've tried to travel several times also with regard to the cultural budget. So we're going to redistribute what we call cultural recognition: it's not just the elite's production that's culturally interesting, on the contrary, the whole people's production and actions are counting on culture. There is a lot of good culture, and it is produced all over Norway, in every village around, in every fjord and where it might be. And as I said, it's what characterizes the policy we want to profile ourselves, that we want more money for volunteering and to reduce what goes into so-called elite culture. Then someone says we're populistic. Another word for populist is democratic, and we want to be in the future as well. We also get some criticism that we don't have any cultural policy. Many people say that we want to rage over the cultural budget. This time we are reducing the cultural budget by approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr. It's not radical. It's a little bit lower than the red-green government's 2010 cultural budget. I just want to add that for us there's a historically high level we're on. Saying that we rage the culture, as some people do, we seem to be a derailment of the debate. Competition often depends on who grants the most, not on who grants the best, and whether you get back what you put into that sector. I'll say a little about volunteering, and then I'll start by quoting from a letter that Freedom Norway has sent out, dated October 6, 2011. I'll quote a portion from that letter, because it's so good: ‘Magaplask for VAT compensation to volunteers In 2009, the flags peaked in volunteering when the government promised organisations full VAT compensation by 2014. The 2012 government budget does not provide for a real increase in the scheme. The future of VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations is thus uncertain, only two years after the government launched the scheme. – In 2009, the government promised organisations full VAT compensation by 2014. We are now afraid that volunteers will have to take the VAT bill even in the future," says Birgitte Breek, Secretary-General of Freedom Norway. – The lack of escalation has a serious impact on many non-governmental organisations, not least the small ones, which have complied with the government’s promise of a step-by-step increase up to DKK 1.2 billion in 2014, Break continues.’ It actually tells us how serious it is about volunteering, and how far the government is from the promise you made in 2009. Then you haven't reached the goal, you haven't reached 2014. But what is quite clear is that from this government it has been announced that the future state budgets will be reasonably tight. That's what Sigbjørn Johnsen and the Prime Minister have said on the in and out. How the government's going to get to the goal, with the year that's left, becomes interesting. But that's what I expect the Minister of Culture to clarify in a very clear way in the post she's going to have today, so the volunteer knows what will become their framework conditions in the future. I am pleased that an overall opposition has agreed to grant more to volunteer – 200 million. kr. In addition, the opposition will increase the amount of tax credit for voluntary donations by NOK 25 000, increase the payroll obligation and reduce the employer’s fee for voluntary organisations in order to strengthen their financial position and independence. But it is a shame to record that there is no support from the government parties in this room, and then it is primarily the volunteer that must suffer from it – no one else. I think I can say from an overall opposition that we are going to fight for volunteering in the future as well. We have also proposed 100 million from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. to a scheme that can contribute to a living culture of children and young people. We will commend the efforts made by voluntary teams and organisations — which motivate children and young people to work with music, with amateur theatre activities — and want to provide them with a good and predictable framework. So in this area, we're not going to have other parts with us, but we're not going to give up for that reason. We're going to be on that arrangement in the future as well. Then I also want to use a few words on another theme that has dealt with us in the Progress Party, and me, in recent years – the position of the NRK in the Norwegian community. The NRK is in a special position and has long-standing traditions in that it is financed directly by decisions taken here in the Chamber in connection with the licensing system. While the rest of Medie-Norway is taking over the dark economic clouds hanging over Norway, Europe and the world, the NRK can when we knock with clubs here tonight, know that their financial framework for the next year, the year after and the coming years, is secure. So they don't have to relate to the economic reality that everyone else has to. We feel that this is a pity, because we believe that once you have got the position you now have in the media, with a lot of players and a lot of competition, competition should also be equal to the income side. It is not today, by the fact that the NRK almost has a monopoly on getting funding right over the state budget because of the way it is financed. I can see that the NRK thinks this is pleasant, but I also understand that other actors think this is deeply unfair, and so do we. In addition, we record that the NRK has a rather brutal way of charging license fees. There have been a lot of examples in the media that some people who have not had reason to pay a licence are being required for a licence, and that goes to legal enforcement. That's where I think the Council of State should take action and clear up to the NRK, so that the NRK gets a way of operating the license in the future, which is similar to what you're going to experience in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1501	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1504	I want to give the representative Korsberg right in one of the things he said in his speech today, and that is that the Cultural Budget of the Advancement Party is not what will fury cultural life the most. What is going to be shattered by the policies of the Progress Party is sport – and that is not least the NRK. I would like to challenge Korsberg about the NRK, for his colleague Ib Thomsen has been very busy with children's television, not least the program for the smallest children, Dreamhagen. On 1 December, NRK became Super, which is NRK's own children's TV channel four years old. Here's a fantastic production -- lots of self-produced -- and the NRK uses a lot of resources on it. Now that the Progress Party will privatise and sell out the NRK, the consequence will be that it will not be a single channel in Norway that is able to provide a good children's TV offer to Norwegian kids. Is it that the Progress Party is willing to sacrifice a good children's TV offer to the kids because they're so busy privatizing the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1515	Let me first say that I do not understand what the representative, Gjul, said that we should rage the sport, without justifying it any more. I think it's a baseless claim, a claim that's not documented, so I'm not going to spend time refuting it. As for the NRK, we're going to have pretty clear and strong opinions about the NRK, just because the NRK is funded the way they are. Anyone who has a TV – no matter what one should use the TV for – is forced to pay a license. In this way, I think it is right to raise a debate on the NRK as well. When there are so many who get involved when programs disappear from the NRK, we actually think it is our duty, as ombudsmen in this room, to raise the issue that the representative Ib Thomsen did in such an excellent way – and took care of all the small children in society. So thank you very much to Ib Thomsen!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1522	The party of progress is a party that likes to refer to itself as a party for most people. But here I stand with the cut of the Progress Party on the cultural budget in my hand, and what is quite clear is that the Progress Party does not like people most to go to theater, opera or ballet. Last year we figured it out, and a regular family of four would have to pay over $4,000 for one night with the trip to the Christmas star at the National Theatre. Isn't this an expression that the Progress Party is not a party for people most, but basically the most elitist cultural party in Norway, which seems to be controlling the wallet which cultural experiences you're going to have to participate in?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1529	What's most interesting about that question is why some offers should be subsidized by the state, while other offers should not be. That's the basic question. When you have subsidised tickets within operas, within theatres, etc., you can also ask that question: why is it that other cultural offers need to be funded by the individual user as a whole – there are concerts with Bruce Springsteen, with Metallica, etc., etc., whether you are going to sports event? So the consumer has to pay the entire ticket himself. We don't think it's unreasonable that consumers of these services pay a higher share of what they want to experience than exactly what Knutson Barstad wants to highlight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1536	The Progress Party is often concerned that the State should not rule too much and impose too much restrictions on the activities of organisations and private actors and their independent rights to be masters in their own house. Therefore, my question to the representative is: what is the background to the promotion of a proposal by the Progress Party in the financial situation asking the government to limit the proportion of public funds that civil society organisations can have from revenue in its budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1543	It is absolutely right that we do not want to impose restrictions, as far as possible, on either non-governmental organisations or private companies. But in that answer it is also that we have to look at these organisations and the private enterprises in terms of the framework conditions that the public makes available. That is in many ways what is behind us giving leadership for different opinions and, to a large extent, also for different regulations. A private enterprise or an organisation organised in different ways also has clear public leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1548	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1551	Right cultural policy is based on the self-esteem of art and culture for each of us. Right sees life as a continuous process of formation in which the goal of each of us must be to cultivate the best in ourselves in meeting the communities of which we are part through life. In a modern Western society, it means a society with good opportunities for participation in art and culture. For the Right, this means a cultural policy characterised by diversity, freedom and integrity. In the view of the Right, this is best achieved by a cultural policy that invites growth from below, where, as a starting point, the public does not see cultural life in terms of the desire to achieve political objectives. Cultural actors must be free to take their stand after the time in which cultural life operates and to define their own social role. On the right, the market is seen as an open, democratic arena that contributes to development and diversity. However, the market will always focus on profitability and thus have weaknesses in its width and availability. In particular, this applies in a small market area such as Norwegian. The objective is that everyone should have the opportunity to participate and experience a cultural life, where there is also room for the narrow expressions and experiments. It is therefore important and necessary for the right to make a significant contribution to artistic and cultural life by the public. However, for the Right, it is important that public support is organised in a way that is as far as possible leading and that does not contribute to the centres of power in which dominant tastes and artistic views are dominated. On the right, this government believes that there has been a negative development in this respect. There is a clear trend towards fewer and fewer people deciding over an increasingly large proportion of the funds. The right wants a different course where several environments contribute, and a more decentralised approach. We believe that the increasing concentration of power we see around the Norwegian Cultural Council, the House of Films and the National Library, which may be the most central examples, is unfortunate, and we will continue to work on a policy that compensates for this. Our policy course is about alternative agencies for the distribution of funds, stronger use of the whole country – for example within the film. It is about a more independent cultural life based on a strengthening of the free field, and finally it means a policy that more clearly invites other sources of funding, whether private individuals, businesses or funds, and more often stimulated by tax incentives and gift-enhancing schemes. So the right will specifically focus on the development of the free field of art, stage art and music, and we have made clear priorities in this year’s budget – as in the past. The right considers that the grant schemes of the free groups and the ensembles should not only be strengthened. We also believe that there is reason to look at the leadership that is being practised today. The role of the free field in the right cultural policy is more important, where there needs to be better room to focus on a wider range of audiences and partners. All single artists and stand-alone groups are, with their particular starting point, independent enterprises, perhaps not with the same focus on profits as traditional business, but still with the same zeal and commitment to achieving their results. A good industrial policy for small enterprises is therefore also often very good cultural policy. The framework conditions for these businesses are therefore something we should work on further, and perhaps also adapt specifically to some of the actors in cultural life. The right is concerned with good management of cultural heritage. Today, the agency in this area is handled in several departments, where the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Environment are the most important in addition to the Ministry of Culture. There is reason to ask questions about whether cooperation between these departments is good enough. For example, it is a problem both for the museum field and for cultural memory protection that the Ministry of Education does not have a more offensive attitude towards education in the small and protective craft trades. This also applies to the grant scheme for these subjects, both in terms of making this scheme permanent and in terms of expanding it to the extent necessary. The right will also point to the commitments made by Norway under the IPR Convention. Right wants to strengthen work with folk music and dance further. Here, too, the Ministry of Education has a responsibility to follow up on the intentions to provide students with knowledge of the culture of the people. For example, it should. have been interesting to see how the intention of teaching folk dance has been followed up in the schoolwork. I'm guessing it's quite uneven. Let's hope that the efforts of Norway's Youth League for folk dance will also have an impact in schools. Today, favourable VAT systems of different kinds are a very important part of the cultural policy instrument. The VAT exemption for books and the zero-VAT rate for newspapers represent significant amounts; together we talk about several billion dollars. The debates we have had on this in the past give strong signals that the government will not adapt this part of the instrument, i.e. VAT, to digital platforms. The message from the government is quite clear – full VAT on all digital services. This not only creates problems in a transitional phase, but it also challenges VAT as a cultural policy instrument in general. For the e-book, VAT has given Norwegian operators a competitive disadvantage over non-residents as regards the delivery of the books themselves, but also as a result of the technology. For the media area, it provides a very demanding starting point for the conversion to — or development of — new media products on a digital platform. The VAT question is also the leaping point in the Media Support Selection split option. The hearing is over, and I hope the Council of State is making an effort to get a case on media support before it goes too far. A large and important industry is dependent on predictable framework conditions — not least at a time of major technical changes, major user changes and significant uncertainties related to the performance concepts to support the economy in the future. As with previous budgets over many years, the Right is also making a cut in press support this year. Policy in this area is generally overtime, and we will meet new proposals with transparency if we find arrangements that actually work. Media policy has a difficult borderline on what has so far been the domain of transport policy, namely cable development. The right has previously raised a number of questions and suggestions relating to which cable regimes should apply and the need for network neutral solutions. Simplest possible traffic in the networks, without cable ownership control, together with effective competition at the price of transport, is very important for the development of content on the network. In a broader cultural policy perspective, it is also very important for Norwegian languages and culture that we have a large development of content based on digital platforms, or other expressions that also originate in our country. These are important cultural policy issues that should not be left alone to social policy considerations and politicians. There is a lack of cultural policy commitment from the government parties, and perhaps also from the Council of State. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the proposal by the Right on case No. So 5, which is a proposal to allocate $15 million. SEK to Norwegian sport on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the Norwegian Sports Association. It's a follow-up to the case that we've been dealing with here not so long ago, and we're getting back to what was right that time, namely, that we wanted to input what is it – let's say – calculated the gift for Norwegian sport. If you were to go for such a solution, we assume, of course, that the arrangements that are now planned for the sports gallery on 7 January, and the drawing around this, can go as planned. But then you didn't have to use the home that the government has now made to change the key at that draw, but you could add the 15 million to the pot of sports and maintain the key you otherwise have. We think it would be a little more pleasant input into giving a gift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1591	In an earlier exchange of lines with the representative Stokkan-Grande, the representative raised a question about an instrumental cultural policy, and I think that is a very interesting debate. I want to challenge the Thommess: Does Thommess mean that it is unreasonable to demand cultural life and institutions to reach a wider group of people and of the audience, when you know that you spend billions of dollars of community money on culture? Can we not expect that we will also ensure that there are not only highly educated people in the big cities who benefit from a cultural offer, that they make sure that they reach a larger part of the population, and that other social groups have the opportunity to consume culture at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1596	I'm not sure if I fully understand the question, but let me try to answer it. The right-hand starting point is that we want a free cultural life, which is not governed by the state through given considerations or objectives. We mean, for example: It would be wrong to instruct the institutional theatres to have immigrants on stage – which was a theme a few years ago. But it's not in contrast to the fact that we want a wide-ranging cultural life. After all, we support those schemes that actually provide for lower fares in the institutions. After all, we support the whole range of approaches that allow for a living cultural life for – I would say – the many. So I don't see it as instrumentalism in that sense, I feel it more like a culture policy directed towards breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1603	Speaking of breadth: On 28 April this year, the town councillor in my home town – Monica Mæland, who is also a party trap by the representative Thommess – says that we need to strengthen production support, that it will be a good grip for Medie-Norge, and that Bergen is the only city in Norway that can challenge the Oslo dominance in the press area. Unfortunately, I see that City Councillor Mæland has not got a pass in his party, Right, national. I wonder if representative Thommes can say anything if he takes the signals from Malta seriously, and takes seriously having a wide and diverse pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1608	Yes, we want a wide and diverse press. If you look at the total amount of media support, not just at the production grant, but at VAT and everything, that is a very significant amount we are talking about. Right cut, 100 million. I don't think I will mean so much in that picture. The problem with production aid and the type of funding is that it is difficult to find targeted criteria that function properly. It is difficult to make production aid work as it was intended. When it was introduced in its time, there were two newspapers in almost every small town in all of Norway and in every village and branch. So today there are seven publishers in Norway who have two newspapers. It shows that the production support system has not been able to cope with this as we wanted. There are also ideological concerns, linked to the relationship between state and freedom of expression, with which we justify our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1618	The cultural promise was the first red-green joint project. For SV, it is a pleasure to see that the government is betting on culture in a budget that is otherwise tight. It is also a pleasure to see that the cultural effort is strong in Norway, when it is cut elsewhere in Europe due to a crisis, which the representative Stokkan-Grande was in. For SV, culture is not a luxury or a surplus project. It's a central part of society, and what makes society good to live in. This summer we experienced some of the worst things we can experience as a nation. Many of us then needed to read poetry from World War II – Inger Hagerup, Nordahl Grieg – or listen to the new recording of Ole Paus’ ‘My Little Land’. It clearly showed how important culture is to us, both as individuals and as a society. If anyone were to get hurt saying that culture is not an important field of activity, I'd ask them to think about it. When we spend billions on culture, it's important that everyone has access and real opportunity to participate in the cultural promise. I want to commend the Council of State for making it her heart's business to spread cultural experiences across classes, across parts of the country, and bring them out to more. I would also like to mention in this context the recent report on culture and social inclusion, which shows important steps here. Such an approach that has been extremely successful is the cultural school bag, which has been fantastically important for bringing culture out to children and young people, who have been important to give artists something to live off. Then I'll hit a blow for regional movies. I welcome the increase in the budget. Since 2005, the government has tripled the investment in regional films, but we still see that most of the film money is still in Oslo. It's one of the things that I think we need to discuss and review in the future, how we can spread more of the film money around the country, and how we distribute the film money between Oslo and the regional film centres, and not least the film funds, which have just had an evaluation. Of course, it will be important for regional film centres and film funds, but it will also be important for Norway as a film nation to produce more environments and more stories. Finally, I would like to say something about the artists' living conditions. It's a very good grip the government does in the budget with the creation of a dance and theater alliance, that's a very right way to think about. It will ensure actors and dancers work and money between assignments and the ability to train. I'd like to agree to discuss in the future how we can do more of that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1634	I am going to touch on an area that the representative Gina Knutson Barstad did not touch on in his speech, namely children and young people. Knutson Barstad spent his entire contribution on elite culture – it is also one of the budget winners – while children and young people were not mentioned in one word. SV has had – or tried to create – a profile of taking children and young people seriously, that you want to make an effort for them. Under this government, the number of poor people has increased dramatically in Norway, including children who experience the consequences of it, and child welfare will not concern SV, etc., etc. Then the question is, why won't SV propose any of its own proposals in the Storting to correct the imbalance that exists in society? And why won't SV support any of the opposition's proposals that take care of children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1641	There was a lot to do here. First, I mentioned, among other things: The cultural school bag in my post, which is a very important offer for children and young people, and which gives art and culture experiences to children in school. It doesn't mean that I didn't get hold of it. So that there have been several poor people in Norway, which we also debated in the previous debate. One of the reasons is that today we accept refugees. Those who make up the poor in Norway are often the newly arrived refugees. I don't think it's a good fight against poverty to refuse refugees to come here, as the Progress Party wants. Otherwise, I'm very much a member of culture for children and young people, I'm a member of the cultural school, which I've spent a lot of time talking about here in Stortinget, and we're promoting proposals in the government on culture for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1652	I think the representative Knutson Barstad had a very interesting post, especially in film. There's a lot I can say I agree with. I'm glad Knutson Barstad wants to work for stronger film regions. It's about money, but it's also about formalities. It is today that there are restrictions on the regional film funds in relation to their ability to produce feature films, in the sense that they cannot spend money from the state for such production without, where appropriate, being given on a project basis through the Film Fund. There is a real plug in relation to the regional film production around, not least in Knutson Barstad’s hometown, Bergen. This also applies in FilmCamp in Målselv, and it applies in Stavanger and elsewhere. Is this something Knutson Barstad thinks you should watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1661	I'm familiar with the problem that Thommessen raises. It has also included FilmReg in consultations with us and in meetings that I have had with them. I am absolutely willing to be with and discuss it. It's an incredibly exciting development in the film regions of Norway, and I think we need to spend time in the future discussing how we can increase it and make it even more exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1667	The representative Knutson Barstad was very pleased with the cultural promise. I have full respect for that, because there's a lot of good. Now SV is very lucky for the cultural promise, because it is SV who governs the department that might manage the most important area of everyone in the cultural promise, namely that children and young people should be given the opportunity to have the opportunity to exercise their own art and culture – cultural school. There is a clear promise that everyone will receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price. There I think we can agree that it has happened fairly little, and you're very far away from fulfilling that promise, that's what the Council of Culture has pointed out. Is the representative proud of SV's contribution to fulfilling the Government's Cultural Promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1674	I'm proud of SV's commitment to cultural schools, and SV's work on that front. Then I'm the first to admit that there's much more that needs to be done in the cultural school in Norway, among other things. the follow-up to the cultural school report which came a year ago. But then I have to say that we don't exactly get a lot of drag help from the municipalities where the representative Håbrupke's party rules, for example. In Oslo's cultural school, there are now large cuts that lead to 500 children in Oslo losing their cultural school place from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1679	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1682	Cultural life is an important part of Norwegian society, and I believe that it is a recognition of the role of civil society for the country when, despite a tight state budget, we have found room for a continuation of the cultural promise. In other words, this shows a government that is credible in its commitment to culture. It is important to see the cultural budget of the year in the context of the promise made on the cultural side in recent years. It shows that this government has been willing throughout our reign to take on the priorities necessary to put in place a good cultural budget. In a tight state budget, there is room for a continuation of the cultural promise, and we are now up to 0.92 p.m. the proportion of the state budget allocated to culture. Over the period 2006-2012, we have had an increase of 3.8 billion. kr. It is very interesting, as previous speakers have pointed out, when you look around Europe and elsewhere in the world, where you cut in many budgets, and where culture is probably not on the priority list for those countries that are struggling with a lot of unemployment and a lot of social unrest. There are many exciting possibilities at the intersection of culture and industry. During 2012, an action plan for this field shall be developed. Many people have many useful experiences in this area, which provide good conditions for contributing to the design of such a strategy. Then I would like to mention in particular Tindved Kulturhage in Verdal in my home country as a good example. Tin wood has become very important in its region, and important on a national scale to show that culture provides value creation. A strategy for this area is important to contribute to the dissemination of cultural resources, and not least to the creation of a strong regional cultural environment. It is important that we get more strong environments, which can complement each other and establish a broader definition power in the field of culture. I believe it should continue to be a wide range of both popular and so-called fine cultural actors, professionals and amateurs throughout the country. When we went to elections in 2005, volunteering was one of our main issues, so there's no doubt that volunteering is at the heart of the Central Party. For us, the first priority on the cultural side will be to follow up what the government has said that the VAT compensation scheme should be escalated to 1.2 billion. kr in 2014. I am proud that, through a number of voluntary measures in recent years, we have helped to raise the status and provide better framework conditions for the sector. If I were to mention some measures, I would like to talk about the VAT compensation scheme, plant tax schemes, Freefonds, the fact that more research could have been done in the field, and the fact that we have set up a lot more volunteer centres. In addition to lifting financial arrangements for volunteering, it is important to look at other framework conditions, for voluntary sector spending is more than just money. I am very pleased that we can show that the work on simplification in the government also concerns the voluntary sector, so that we can have relatively similar ambitions as we have for business. The best measures are appropriate for any person who is involved in culture, who is familiar with it. It is important that we listen carefully to their feedback and make changes that ensure that it is possible to spend more time on activity and less time filling out forms. A unanimous committee is also clear in the call for simplification and looks forward to the government returning to this in the next year's budget proposal. Finally, I will discuss some issues that concern my own family in particular. There's a lot of things that should actually be mentioned then, because we have a lot of good culture in the North Trøndelag. When the Stortinget will discuss sports policy next year, it is an important goal for Norwegian sport to work with the inclusion of people with disabilities. In this area, I would particularly like to point out the job Campus Steinkjer does, and their work to include disabled people in sports. I would like to believe that their experience will also be very important for many municipalities with this responsibility. An overall committee also points to the historic importance of Stiklestad for state, monarchy and church and points forward towards 2030 and the important markings we are going to have then.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1704	I heard a lot about culture, I heard a lot about the whole country, and I heard a lot of happy stories from the home state to the representative. The Progress Party has made a proposal to reorganise the Council of Culture – look at the possibility of getting power out of Oslo, look at the possibility of giving more power and responsibility to municipalities in the allocation of cultural resources. The municipalities have an overview of young people and new talents, both within music, visual arts and literature. My question to the representative is: Can the Centre Party and the representative be involved in looking at new arrangements that allow municipalities to gain more power, greater opportunities to prioritise locally within the Council of Culture? And does the representative see that Oslo might have too much power on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1711	I'm going to admit that I haven't read the proposal of the Progress Party very well yet, but what I can say as a starting point, is that the Center Party is always involved in discussions that are involved and lead to more decentralization, whether it's within culture or other things. We're always in discussions to see how we can give municipalities both more power and more money. There are absolutely relevant discussions. Then you have to go into the proposal the Progress Party has promoted, to see if there might be other things about the proposal that make the Center Party not choose to support it. But the fact that the Progress Party is concerned with the issues of decentralization, which will give the municipalities more power and authority and not least provide a cultural life throughout the country, is the thoughts of the Center Party share.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1716	Like the representative of the Progress Party, I think of the Centre Party as a party that is concerned with local culture – cultural memories, cultural protection, popular culture – the whole field that I might have come up with in the cultural vow context seems to have come out a bit of a poor overall. There have been huge increases in the cultural budget, and I think that maybe it's dripped a little bit in that field. One bit of it is the archive area. This year there's an upgrading on archives. It goes to central, large actors in that area, and then it goes to the Arbeidermovement archive, while around the country at museums and elsewhere, in municipalities and everywhere, there are a lot of small private archives, and they are left with few possibilities based on the government's starting point. The landscape of local and private archives is consistently not increasing its resources, and our collective memory on paper locally is about to crumble.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1723	First, I have to say that I am very aware that the representative from the Right has a very strong commitment to the cultural memory field in general. I heard that the representative had a contribution to the Committee on Energy and the Environment's budget debate in that area. If we're going to look at it as a whole, it's probably also a challenge that the responsibility is a little – whether I call it – shared, or that there are different committees with slightly different focus, and that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has a lot of other demanding issues. As far as archives are concerned, it is clear that there is something that will cost an awful lot of money, and I am very aware that the municipalities have a lot, not least many local teams and associations and museums, and a lot of people who take care of it, not least private archives, who are asked questions about how to manage in the future. I share the concerns of the Right-Representative, but the government has also made an increase in that area, so I believe that we are in the process and have taken hold of this area, because I can agree that this area has been underfocused in the previous period of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1730	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1733	I only have five minutes. In previous budget debates, I have used to promote the ideological views of the Christian People's Party on culture and the relationship between culture and other societies. I'm not going to spend too much time on it today, but rather concentrate on the main priorities of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has supported much of what is in the government's proposal, while we have seen a need for increased efforts in essential areas. We have a higher total frame than the government to make room for the necessary bets. The cultural promise, on which the government bases its policy, and which really has its historical starting point in the cultural message from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, has very much to do with it. It has provided the cultural sector and the cultural budgets with a lot of fresh resources over many years. As a result, there is also room for many different measures, and so has it. Nevertheless, there are some black holes in this cultural effort that the government has founded. The three most obvious things are volunteering, choirs and cultural schools. I will give tribute to the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande for the interesting reflection on volunteering, cultural life and social capital. I'd like to nuance the picture somewhat when he gives the impression that social capital is increasing with increasing wealth. I don't think that's necessarily any given context. I guess some of the countries that now experience hard economic times, on the contrary, feel that people take even more care of each other when it's pinching, but we might have a lot of discussions about that, with lots of shades. Voluntaryness is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, not the third sector, but the first sector. Freedom of movement and VAT, which is the most important issue in this budget, have been a sore toe for very many years. Prior to the 2009 elections, the government appeared to have resolved the matter through a promise – not just a promise, but invited Freewill Norway to an agreement on VAT compensation. It was to be stepped up evenly over the period, and this promise is broken with this budget. That's why the Christian People's Party is adding 200 million. kr to continue this escalation for a system that should have been better equipped. The music industry has also received a significant share of the investment in recent years. The more amazing it is that the part of the music life that represents the second largest movement in the country after the sport, that is, the choir movement, hardly gets any money from the cultural effort. It's about a couple of proms of the entire cultural budget. That's the instrument that we're all equipped with from nature, that's the song. It's a paradox. For years, the debate on the cross-sector has been a debate on who will get a little more, and who will get a little less, if someone else gets a little more, etc. Not least the professionalisation debate has been marked by this. It is possible that there has been a challenge, but that challenge has simply been solved by the Christian People's Party in our budget option. We four or five double the bet on choirs -- we clear up space. It's actually not that terrible. It's about moving an estimated four to five per million of the entire cultural budget, and then we've solved that problem. We're betting on choirs, professionals, and in width – in central struts and across the country. Culture schools do not belong to this budget, but are perhaps the most important point – one of the most important – of the entire cultural policy, because it is where we are to equip children and young people to practice art and culture themselves. There have hardly been any things done in the entire period. We're at $40 million. kr, which in turn is earmarked for special purposes, and which fits into the government's own ideology. There is reason to ask questions about whether the government views all of us as an audience in its cultural effort, when it omits the broad areas mentioned here. I'll get back to the rest of the page.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1755	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1758	Press support is an important key instrument for achieving important objectives in the media field. One of the main objectives is to ensure a diversity of newspapers across the country. There is a great deal of agreement between the Christian People's Party and us. However, when it comes to facilitating the reading of news in their own language, where an important objective is to contribute to a democratic debate, the formation of opinions and – perhaps the most important – the development of languages in the Sami community, you are proposing to cut 5 million. kr. Then my question is: Does the Christian People's Party feel very comfortable sending out these kinds of signals to the Sami people, who have great challenges in relation to their language?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1765	We acknowledge that we have re-prioritized the cultural budget presented by the government, because the government is unable to fulfill its promises of volunteering, is unable to fulfill its promises at the cultural school and has never been able to lift the Korpolitik and give the corpus movement the status it deserves in cultural policy. That's why we've re-prioritized. Then we've put in fresh funds, so that we have a larger cultural budget. As far as the priority of the Sami newspapers is concerned, it's true that we have a smaller cut, but it's a relatively small proportion of that item. Most of the funds for this purpose are still in the post. We've cut five million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. Most of the funds are still left, so there is still plenty of opportunity to produce good Sami newspapers for the funds that are left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1772	I want to follow up the previous line from Kåre Simensen because I think Hope answers very evasively the question Simensen challenged him on. When you have a budget for the Ministry of Culture of over 8 billion. kr, manages the Christian People's Party, when they then have to make a prioritisation and redispatch, to attack the language environment in Norway which is the most vulnerable, the Sami language. Just a few years ago, we dealt with a language message here in Norway just to provide the Norwegian and the Sami languages in a good way. Then I find it quite strange that the Christian People's Party chooses to hit the Sami language in this way, with a cut to Sami newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1779	I hear what the representative Gjul says. With regard to the language message she referred to, there was at the time a relatively large consensus between the Christian People's Party and the government parties on the importance of taking care of both the Norwegian and the Sami languages. That is why we are also granting substantial funds. There are large funds that are allocated, in fact, per newspaper and in relation to the number of storages and the size of these newspapers. We've corrected down that entry by 5 million. That's what we're standing by. There are still plenty of opportunities — and most of the funds remain in the post — to produce good Sami newspapers for the resources that remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1787	I hope most of the parties in this room are with me in my recommendation to say that we should celebrate the cultural elite as much as we should celebrate the elite of sport. When I see Bernhoft at the Nobel Concerto and see what success he's made internationally, I'm just as proud as when I see some of our athletes. So I think it's time we put the law of jante back at home when it's about those who do the best in art and culture. Let's celebrate our little art as much as we celebrate the gymnastics! When we see Ringsake Opera and see the leading opera stars standing there, they are just standing with ordinary people in that community. When I go to the Source and see the opera singers singing with pensioners, I just see that it's the great talents that also raise the culture for the most people. The fact that we have great talents is primarily an inspiration for the whole people. I have to say I became very envious of a question that the representative from the Central Party got from the representative from the Right. She was challenged on archival issues. Every time the government spends money on archives, we're told that it's a profiling budget. But I'm very happy that the Right Focus is on archives. When we presented this state budget, we had the press conference at the National Archives. I got my dream of going on a red run up to the Riksarchivet. There has never been a red runner before, so I got it now in the Swedish Archives. This is a sector that is rarely mentioned. But when the archives don't work, many people are affected by it. That's why we are doing something important in this budget, which is to give more money, so that we can gain competence in the municipal archives. Not least, we build a new national archive — a central depot on Tynset, which shows that this has also spread throughout Norway, using a model from the National Library of Mo in Rana. I think this is important, and I would like to be challenged by more people to discuss the archive sector. You can enjoy even more – we get the first news about archives. There will hardly be any kiosks, but I hope for good discussions in this Chamber on cultural policy and archives. There's a lot of talk about power concentration. I just want to say a few things about it. That's how we've increased some budget lines, among other things. We increase the support of musicians in this state budget, so that more musicians can go on tour – we almost double it. The fact that more people are granted their applications and fewer are refused does not lead to a concentration of power. Rather, on the contrary, it just makes more people agree to spread culture and travel around Norway. I would also like to warn you a little bit about building up a lot of different support schemes. If artists are going to search a lot of pots, it's going to be those who are good at writing applications, which get through. They will continue to spend their time, first and foremost, producing art and not fine-tuning different projects for different applications. I also think that would lead to us spending more money on bureaucracy, more money on committees and not so much on art. I am also concerned that this should be a field where it is easy to apply for funds, and where there are large bags, so that there are not very small items everywhere. There is also a discussion about regional film betting. I think that's an important discussion. We have just been evaluating the regional film funds. Then we're going to look at solutions, whether it's possible to get support from different pots at the same time. But it's clear that this is also about ESA's rules that you can't get more than 50 pst. support per film, so there are also limitations on how much you can receive in support of films. This is a great boost to cultural life. We have put forward a tight government budget, but this government has shown that, especially in times of economic hardship, we are concerned with the power that cultural life represents. There is no culture only for the elite and another culture for the people. It is the same cultural policy that is to build Norway as a cultural nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1810	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1813	We're now getting input numbers that show that under 20 pst. The youth of the country says they've read a book in their spare time. It's significantly smaller than 20 years ago, and there's still a decline in this government's management time. According to the Central Statistical Office, 28 pst. between 16 and 24 years of age, a book in leisure time reads an average day in 1991. Today, this proportion has fallen dramatically to almost 10 pst. What does the Council of State think this can be due to, and what force does she want to take around this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1820	The most important thing we can do to increase the commitment to reading among young people is to strengthen the libraries. Therefore, I just want to strongly warn against all those who want to charge to go there. On the contrary, we strengthen the libraries in several ways through this cultural budget, including through, among other things, strengthening them. shall be able to borrow comic books and feature films there. That is why we also have in the big message we presented a week ago, several measures to strengthen the libraries as an inclusive arena. Many libraries have made a very important effort to get young boys in particular to read more. We're going to keep doing that in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1825	I am pleased that the Council of State got to go on the red run – and fulfilled its greatest wish – during the presentation of the budget. Some people who don't run in red are voluntary teams and organisations. One of the major challenges and what we have spent a lot of time dealing with this budget is precisely the VAT compensation and the lack of follow-up from the government based on the promises made in 2009. It was such that there would be full VAT compensation by 2014. I know it's a year again, but nevertheless, on behalf of the Progress Party and the volunteer organizations, I want to ask: Will there be full VAT compensation by 2014? If the Council of State refers to next year's government budget, I'll interpret it as a no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1833	I just want to correct an obvious misunderstanding, that I think it should be so fun to go on the red race. I think it's great to be able to go on the red run up to the Riksarchive, because there's a part of the cultural sector that has had a few red runners, if any. I expect that both the representative Korsberg and I will meet on the red runner of the voluntary sector in connection with the largest organisation, namely the Norwegian Sports Association’s sports gallery right over Christmas. It just underlines that it is a very important part of the voluntary sector. We have a goal of strengthening the VAT compensation scheme by 1 billion. kr by 2014. So far, we've increased it by 260 pst. It's a formidable increase. But the goal of this is going to be up by 1 billion. kr by 2014, stand firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1840	Let me start by saying that I can invite the Council of State to a lot of fun when it comes to archives, and I look forward to the message and debate about it. Archive is fun! I want to talk about something that's not so much fun, and it's about the cultural policy toolbox that has some tools that we need, and one of them is the question of VAT. These are taxes – VAT as an instrument. We've had some discussions about it. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance's communication is quite clear, and it is that there is no VAT exemption or – what to say – varying rates of VAT on digital media. It is going to challenge VAT, or the levy, as a whole because it also challenges areas that currently have positive VAT solutions. That's something we're looking at with great concern. How does the Council of State view this particular question?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1847	Today we use approx. 1.8 B.C.E. kr in aid to Norwegian press through the VAT exemption, but also through the production grant. I believe that in the time to come, we need to maintain the high level of support for freedom of expression and to have a diversity of Norwegian newspapers. But if it's VAT exemptions that are the right tool, I'm not sure. There may also be other more appropriate instruments. There is no doubt that VAT exemptions have played a very important role both in the book industry and in the press in Norway, but I am not sure whether this is the right instrument in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1852	Favorable VAT solutions – there are several types of them – are today the only good tool we have, we should say, general nature. All the others are about grant schemes and more targeted types of assistance. I agree that VAT has been very important for the daily press. It has also been important for the book industry. The problem with the transition to the digital platform is that the digital expressions then come into a difficult competitive relationship with them – we'll call them – analogues, they on paper. It makes this whole system challenging in a very demanding way. One could also imagine entering into the digital sector as it was done in its time, trying to build up sectors, areas – demarcated areas – where VAT could also be used as an instrument in the future. I'm interested in the Ministry of Culture working on that, if you want to play it on to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1859	There are probably no more questions that we discuss when European Ministers of Culture meet. But it is also about VAT limits. It would be to make a big hole in the VAT system if it were like that, for example. currently subject to VAT, films and music files will be free of VAT if they are presented in a newspaper. Then it does not work as intended. But there are also other tax deduction models that are interesting. A media support committee - the Slagholm Committee - provided a model to introduce the number of editorial staff to improve the quality of the drug. It's also a way to use the tax system. So it is quite clear that the support mechanisms that we are going to have in the case of the Norwegian press are not just about money granted over the State budget, but it can also be tax deduction and exemption schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1864	Mom's legislation is already full of various barriers that it is quite demanding to understand, as it is. It should be possible to make arrangements for this in the cultural sector. My question concerns VAT compensation for the voluntary sector. When the former Minister of Culture, Trond Giske, sent a letter to volunteer on 16 June 2009, this was presented as if the matter had been resolved. This was not just a common election vow among other election vows, but was written to Freedom Norway and invited them to join the points that the government had come up with. It was a very special form. They actually made an agreement with volunteering. Is it embarrassing for the Council of State to have broken such a clear agreement and not to carry out the process of escalation that was promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1873	There is no appointment that is broken. There is nothing to say about how much this is going to increase every year; there is nothing about how much the increase is going to be in the 2012 budget. In contrast, what it says is: ‘The Government has decided to introduce a new VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. The scheme shall enter into force on 1 January 2010 and shall be escalated by one billion kroner until 2014.’» It's on the side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1883	The chord shift has been completed. The President understands that 1 minute is short. However, the representatives are asked to stay within the reference period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1888	The debate so far shows that there is a great difference between parties in cultural policy. While the government parties believe that a priority objective of cultural policy is to ensure that everyone has access to artistic and cultural experiences, the Progress Party believes that culture must be free and independent of political governance – in other words, the community versus the market. The content of the Cultural Policy of the Progress Party has naturally reached their partymates around the whole country. In this article, I want to focus on how the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party turns into practice locally. After the autumn's elections, I have recorded that many express concerns about the success of the Advance Party in the design of local cultural policy priorities. But we have to be big enough to congratulate the party on its success in civil cooperation, and that their political objectives are also anchored locally. The same should be true of policy. I want to use my own municipality of origin, Alta, as an example of the impact – in this case the Progress Party – of central political leaders on the community. This time, I want to focus on going from a good cultural offer to a strongly reduced cultural offer, with the consequences. The party of progress, the Right and the Left, together with the Coastal Party, gained confidence in the people at the autumn elections, where no tolls were the battle cause, as well as everything that was wrong with the previous regime. Now it was to be sorted out, and that list was long, according to the new blue-green regime. We who belong to the Workers' Party became minority – in a new but important role as opposition politicians. The central leadership of the Progress Party that local cultural actions should also be free of political governance, were taken seriously and necessarily got in touch – ergo: municipal funds can be used in other areas. Culture, which is not a statutory task, became a good balancing post to obtain money for, among other things. asphalt. As I said, so done. Redistribution is the description Øyvind Korsberg chose to use. A lot of people might think of a cut of 1 million. kr cannot do much Ugandan, and that there could not be worth paying attention in a budget debate in this Chamber. But it is necessary to give it some attention, because beautiful words in this room are translated into practical policies in the municipalities. That's why I choose to focus on the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party. The statement that culture should be free from political control, strikes children and young people in my hometown hard. When the cultural school and the Youth House lose over 1 million. In practice, it means reduced activity, no matter how creative the employees may be. What's extra bad is that the signal effect of such cuts is also perceived as a symbolic silhouette of the impressive cultural work that's laid down in my hometown over the years. It has given practitioners at national level, which we can enjoy all year round in the community. A thriving cultural life does not come of itself, but requires many years of professional guidance to the many who demand the diverse content of culture. That's the way it is in my hometown. Both the Culture School and the Youth House are two public cornerstones in prevention work. We all agree that the very foundations of sports and cultural work are people who give of themselves and of their knowledge to create good offers for children and young people in their community throughout the country. "Everything is related to everything," said our dear Gro, and in such a context we must also see it when we are going to produce the next generation of volunteers. The young musicians at the cultural school become in the next round driving forces and fires in cultural life, whether in corps, in choirs or in bands. If the offer goes away, there's a lot of losers left. It is when we meet such realities, it is important to understand the importance of culture and politics to the communities. Most people have the ability to pay something more in part for children to have a good offer in the cultural school, but there is also a social side in the desire to create an offer for everyone. Active children may be involved in both music and sports, and there are families who simply have to make difficult choices because of increased peculiarities from all teams. The risk of exclusion is higher the longer the parent payment will be in total. We don't want to go there, but it could be the result of blue-green cultural policy in my hometown. The representative, Ib Thomsen, used the term "bringing the cat" in a question to the representative, Arild Stokkan-Grande earlier today. I am tempted to send the expression in return to Ib Thomsen. Do you care about the fact that cultural offers in a progressive party-driven municipality are being lost overnight? This rhyme, and is also in good Ib Thomsen-spirit!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1920	There has been a great debate for a long time about the localities of the national art taxes with which Munch has blessed us. The debate and disagreement on this issue show in itself the commitment and importance of art and culture. It's very, very positive. Munch's art and works are a national issue. That is exactly why I believe it is time for national actors to get on the road. The role of the State in ensuring one of our largest national cultural taxes cannot be sub-communicated. I believe that the Council of State must also pay tribute here to the great ones, as she said in her contribution. Yes, she must salute Munch and help Oslo with this matter. In this case, it is actually possible to keep two taxes with the same pen stroke. The State should grant the National Gallery of Gifts to the Municipality of Oslo, so that both the unique building and Munch's art are given dignified and good framework conditions for the future. The building mass of the National Gallery is of great national value and is one of the greatest cultural heritage taxes we have in terms of construction and architecture. The Munch Hall in the National Gallery is the very pearl of the building and the heart of the building. In any case, this building mass must be maintained and restored. If the State grants it to the Municipality of Oslo, the City Council and the City Council are given an opportunity to do the best for both the municipality, the nation and the culture. The tullin onion is an area that can flourish and become a cultural gem in the country's capital. I hope the Minister of Culture and the government will get on the road. Signals about such a solution will be a fantastic Christmas gift both to the country as a whole and to culture in particular. I heard Kåre Simensen from the Workers' Party told a lot about the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party. Then I would like to ask the representative Simensen: where is the matter of the e-book? Where does the matter of non-discrimination of the book, paper, audiobook and e-book stand? It can seem like something old-fashioned, maybe, and a little forward-looking when you don't equate these three things: paperbook, audiobook, and e-book. I am afraid that we may lose the Norwegian language, Norwegian literature, Norwegian authors, Norwegian publishers, Norwegian bookstores and the expertise they hold. Norwegian literature and Norwegian languages are threatened if the e-book does not become the new platform. I pointed out – also to the Council of State – that today the youth reads 20 pst. less than they did 20 years ago. But even if the youth leaves the books, they take the reading online again. What does the Storting say? What do politicians say? Well, we have to have the e-book treated in the same way with the paperbook. According to the Central Statistical Office, 28 pst. between 16 and 24 years of age read a book in leisure time on an average day in 1991. Today, that proportion has fallen dramatically. Then I think part of the solution is that we also recognize the e-book. Young people drop the library. A professor at a Norwegian library is familiar with these figures. It goes a long way between every time they see a youth in this age group in the library. Then we have two things we have to do with: it's the e-book, and it's the library. But what will the government do? What will the left-hand side do? What won't Kåre Simensen do about this exposure? The library-based library policy-maker is concerned that libraries need to change in line with societal developments. Libraries need to adapt to a new digital age, while having a mission to operate those who do not master this technology. So we're asking for an engagement to get up the reading list among young people, and there I've now outlined some measures that the government should come back to the Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1941	I have to start with Mr Thomsen's posts. I am very uncertain about which library the representative has visited recently. So the libraries I've visited, which are of recent date – where you've been betting on the library and the fence about the library – are very up-to-date. They've taken over new media, and it thrives on young people there, and it thrives on immigrants. It is an important offer, and in the municipalities that have invested in it, you get a good score for it. Culture is a good thing that enriches our lives. Art and culture increase the quality of life and give us identity. All shall have opportunities for artistic and cultural experiences, irrespective of their place of residence and regardless of income. Experience and participation in the field of art and culture cannot be solved by market forces alone, but requires strong political and public engagement. That's why we've implemented a cultural promise, and that's why we're going to keep doing it. Active cultural policies contribute to strengthening business development and creativity. It creates jobs and is good district policy. In addition, cultural efforts contribute to greater understanding, inclusion and integration between people. Safety in their own culture and language is an important prerequisite for understanding the culture and languages of others. In a world with ever faster and better information flows, we get far more cultural impressions than before. It provides knowledge and impulses about other cultures that are involved in developing our own culture. We will ensure a living cultural life and offer throughout the country. In particular, it is important to strengthen the efforts of those counties that do not have large cultural institutions and thus have a smaller share of the state cultural effort. And that gives us results. For my own country, it is natural with pride to bring forward the state's contribution to both the Hamsun Centre in Hamarøy and, not least, the realization of the new cultural quarter in Bodø. Both are important contributions to regional and national cultural life. In this context, we will also continue to focus on culture in the regions. Then I want to draw attention to a more recent part of the story, and it's about the cold war. The cold war covered the entire globe, but it also mapped North Norway as one of the world's central security policy regions. It put its deep impact on social development. It still characterizes us and will continue to shape the development of the northern regions for many years. For many years, the northern part of Norway was one of the most militarized regions in the world. The cold war is absolutely essential to understand the evolution that has shaped the Nordic society today. In order for NATO to make use of modern weapons and build a credible defense against any Soviet invasion, NATO granted huge sums of money for the construction of aerodromes, port facilities, fortifications, roads, etc. in all of North Norway. In 1951, NATO actually granted 330 million. kr for the construction of seven aerodromes. In 1952, there was a total of 120 million. kr granted alone for the construction of an airport in Andøya. In comparison, the allocation of the Stortinge to the much-described and circumscribed North Norway plan amounts to only 100 million. D over a 10-year period, whereas NATO appropriations in the corresponding order of magnitude came every year. The last ‘large’ year of these appropriations was 1991, when it was granted 1 billion. for infrastructure measures in Norway. The point is that these military investments transformed the entire Nordic community. Fishermen landed and became wage-earners, the housing pattern was changed when people streamed to the new military center looking for work. New career opportunities arose, both military and civilian. American culture took its toll. From being a problem area for Norwegian authorities at the end of the 1940s, with poverty, chronic unemployment and an old-fashioned pre-modern economic structure and relocation, North Norway was slowly but surely equated with South Norway. I am therefore very pleased that the family and cultural committee – at least parts of it – has noticed the work that has been done over several years at the Norwegian Aviation Museum in Bodø to establish an exhibition on the effects of the Cold War on national fear, democracy and national construction. That project will be able to document a small mediated epoch in Norwegian history — and it is urgent because the time witnesses have begun to fall away because of old age. I therefore welcome the follow-up by the government to the Committee's comments on measures to ensure this work and to speed up its implementation. In conclusion, I can reassure the representative Thomsen that this exhibition and communication will take on a great deal of the new media and work to reach the youth in their dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1968	It's a pleasure to be part of cultural debates in Stortinget. I think it depends on two things. One is that art and culture are as important to us as individuals, and to our society, and the other is that this government has put art and culture at the top of the political agenda and also allocated money to culture – good money every year. I also want to mention some of the many great examples from my part of the country. One is the realization of the Nordnorsk Opera and Symphony Orchestra, the construction of the Hamsum Centre on Hamarøy, as also the representative Sivertsen mentioned, and that the exciting Riddu Riddu festival in Kåfjord was given node status. So there are many good examples across the country of the visionary effort of government. I want to spend some time on an area of cultural life that the red-green cultural fraction immediately put on the agenda after the election victory in 2005 – this is mentioned earlier today – namely choir and vocal music. We got increased company support for vocal groups and choirs as early as 2007, and we got funding for a trial project for the professionalisation of choirs, a project carried out under the direction of the Norwegian Cultural Council. Following the work of the Culture Council, five choirs in four different regions were raised with budgetary appropriations to give the same choirs a fabulous opportunity to act as key professional actors in vocal music in their respective regions — some with national and international missions and opportunities. It's a pleasure to see that cultural politicians from several parties are now committed to giving the correspondence a boost. It is located among others. a Document 8 on cows on today's map in Stortinget, and several batches have comments in the budget setting that deal with the corrigendum. The Christian People's Party has also granted money. I see that as very positive, sail if I think it's timely to mention that it was the red-green – and not the blue-yellow – government that started the long-awaited vow of vocal music and choir; a lift that was too ensembles over the whole country. I also see that the Christian People's Party, in its budgetary statement, is calling for the creation of a new choir, with a strong institutional organization in accordance with the pattern of symphony orchestras. I think that's not the best way to organise a national chartlift, and I'm going to explain why. First of all, it is my belief that we get a lot more exciting and diverse choral music if we allow the best corks found in the different regions to be able to gain professionalization through an economic boost. The choirs granted additional appropriations in 2011 and followed up in 2012 represent a genre width and a quality that gives them the best conditions for further development, including: through the testing of various vocal expressions. You could almost say that we're dealing with choirs that deal with some kind of vocal basic research. These choirs are held in cities and in regions where there are higher education institutions for singers and also very good professional vocal settings for the rest of the song. This again means that the choirs have the opportunity to offer jobs to professional freelancers. My experience is that very many young singers today don't necessarily have a desire to get permanently employed in 100 pst. position, e.g. in a choir. Many singers are engaged in alternation between solo missions and ensemble activity, as are many of our most capable and most professional instrumentalists, for example. within songs such as jazz and folk music. I don't think, therefore, that the way to raising the choral music goes through one choir, like a strongly institutionalized musician. Such an actor will probably have limited opportunities to raise the diversity of genres that we have begun to observe, while at the same time there will also be a highly centralised system. I'm convinced that if we're going to think of building choirs and vocal ensembles, we're going to think of them as more free ensembles that we're going to give better and more predictable framework conditions through good and longer term appropriations. I am therefore very pleased with the model that the government has chosen for a unique and innovative bet on choirs and vocal ensembles. So on the tap I want back to the reasoning I started with, and as the representative Stokkan-Grande was also inside. I talked about the power of culture and the importance of art to the individual of us and to society. That's why it's easy for me to say that a strong cultural effort is essential for a good and living society, where people can create happy, good and health-promoting lives. That is why there is indeed a great connection between the public health strategy initiated by the government through the Interaction Reform and the cultural effort we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e1985	Not surprisingly, I believe, I take the floor to say a few words about the project Book and Blueshuset on Notodden. This is a matter that has been mentioned for several years, both in Telemark and here at the house. A bookhouse and a blue house is more than blues. This original combination is simply a wide-ranging cultural and activity building, a cultural building that the former industrial town of Notodden hastens to develop the cultural effort to an even greater extent. A bookhouse and a blueshouse are not raised because the Notodden needs new evidence of the success of the Blues Festival for Notodden's reputation. No, this will be the dot over the i to highlight the brand that the Notodden community has built over the past 25 years. The Blues Festival has engaged both nationally and internationally, to the great joy of many. In addition, we see that this activity has given the city a rich musical life and many orchestral creations within many genres. In Notodden, they're not just thinking and thinking about new ideas. No, they want to do something about it, they want to create new industry, not just exciting festivals with great artists, but innovations in the wake of the festival, where the festival itself is the locomotive that has set the wheels in motion. I am pleased that the Committee of Consultants has made a good budgetary statement stating that the project will be assessed within the framework of the rules governing State investment grants to national cultural buildings in relation to the promises made in the later year's budget. I also record that the State Council has expressed a positive opinion on the project. Although I would have liked to have seen that the project had been given its start-up license in 2012, I am pleased that the comment is so clear in its intention and its leadership for later years' budget. I look forward to the day when one might realize the Book and Blue House. It will be an important venue for the further development of the festival offering, and at the same time form a great basis for a year-round blue offering – and not least an exciting innovation in cultural and festival contexts. The big challenge in today's society is not only to have something to live from, but also to live for. My hope is that in the last year's budget we will be able to raise our eyes and say a loud yes to the project at Notodden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2007	Like my good colleague from the telemark bench, I'm going to talk about Bok- and Blueshuset. Through an engagement and a bloodshed worthy of the blues, the Notodden has been able to build one of Europe's leading blues environments. Now you want to take it a step further by building a bookhouse and a blue house and have received a quote from Bok- og Blueshuset. The timing was so lucky that you got the offer at a time when it was possible to get a much cheaper offer – i.e. more for the money – than what you might have received if you had to buy a new one, that is. there's an opportunity room there now. That's why it's been important for the Right in the budget to set 1 million. kr, so that the project can proceed. The government has not done that. But I can see that when you read the telemark newspapers, red-green politicians in Telemark are still positive. That's very good. They point out that, after direct talks with the Minister of Culture, it has come to what is described in the telemark newspapers that promises that money will come to the Book House and the Blue House. It's important, of course, because if you're going to be able to keep the involvement of the local government in the Notodden to build a bookhouse and a blues house, which is a huge lift for the municipality's economy and a lift for the Telemark county municipality, it assumes that you see light at the end of the tunnel, that is. that some state funds may also be put in place. The only challenge here is that it is difficult for policymakers to base themselves on what the English call ‘hearsay’, i.e. rumors that have continued, or discussions with the ministry continued. I was to hope that the Minister of Culture today, after the great effort that is now being made locally on the Notodden by a broad party political alliance, which includes both the Right and the Workers' Party, and which is now going to decide, hopefully, to continue with the plans for a book and blues house, could be very clear that the state does not leave them in the loop for the next year or the year after. So then you need a slightly clearer commitment from the Minister of Culture than what has come to date. I'm very positive about this project, and it's a combined Telemark state that's behind it. The state has already said that the blues festival is an important contribution to Norwegian cultural life, and a bookhouse and blueshouse will help to further develop not only the community but the entire cultural life in Norway, even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2020	In the line change with Korsberg earlier today, I registered that Korsberg was a little annoyed when we mentioned that the sports policy of the Progress Party would be far more dramatic for sport than their cultural policy. I'm going to explain why, because that's what the representative wanted. The reason for this is that when you think about cutting out the Norwegian Tipping monopoly and letting in foreign betting companies that are allowed to do tipping activities in Norway, that means that the money disappears out of the country. The money won't benefit from sports, then. Then they disappear to the international betting companies. Most of those companies have their head offices in tax havens. So you almost have to believe in Christmas if you think that the money is still going to benefit. In the same line change, I also challenged the Progress Party at the NRK, for the representative Thomsen, not least, has been very busy with children's television. It's like the NRK has a fantastic bet and spends a lot of resources on its children's TV bet. But if you privatize the NRK, no one believes that the NRK through a funding with ads, will afford to have this kind of bet. I think the Progress Party must admit that too. So over a few weeks, the representative Ib Thomsen has become very involved in literature policy, and so is the Workers' Party. But Thomsen is so active and bold that he owes the government that Norwegian boys read less books and are more online. What is important here is to have measures to ensure that both young people and adults read. One of the important measures is the literature policy measures on the State budget, which account for almost half a billion. kr. This is where the Progress Party comes in dramatic. They also write in their note that they want to complete the purchasing system for literature. It goes, among other things, to the purchase system for children's literature, for children's and young people's literature, production aid for children's and young people's image books and production aid for comic books. These are really measures that stimulate and make children and young people read. All these measures are opposed to the Progress Party. The progress party, with Ib Thomsen at its head, is so concerned and concerned that children and young people don't read enough, but their policy helps that this is going to get worse dramatically if they ever get to government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2031	The role of the NRK and the Crusade of the Advance Party against the NRK is once again a theme. Other actors find it unfair that we have a strong NRK, said the representative Korsberg. I just wonder if Korsberg has talked to TV 2, TV3 and TVNorway about the consequences of having a NRK in the same commercial market where they are located. My signals are opposite the opposite of what Korsberg claimed from the pulpit instead. The commercial operators do not want the NRK to be in the same market. It's going to go at the expense of all of them. We'll get a less diverse media landscape in the country if that happens. I think there's a lot of advantages to having a NRK like it's funded today, and with the requirement that a public broadcaster should have. The variety will fall away if the Crusade of the Advance Party against the NRK arrives. Fortunately, we are far from having that happen. As the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul has been involved, I am afraid of both Barne-TV and the programme post that used to be called Salmer and songs we are happy about. Such will be guaranteed to be lost in a commercial market. So I am very happy that the Workers' Party and the government are on safe, good, steady legs and signal: we want NRK as it is today – even when we meet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2038	It has developed into a little classic cultural policy debate in the Stortinget, where the red-greens seem to be far more comfortable to discuss with the Progress Party on the far right, which will cut budgets, rather than discuss with someone who shows that it is possible to deliver in the areas where they themselves make promises. The Minister of Culture felt that there was no agreement that had been broken with voluntary action, and she then gave a relatively selective quote from the letter that the government of the Minister of Culture sent to Freedom Norway in June 2009. Let me quote what it says, about how this is to be done: ‘The order is phased in evenly with the follow-up to the cultural promise and is to be administered in aggregate for the remainder of the 2010-2014 cultural promise.’ So here, there are three things that are important. It is ‘phase-in’. It is ‘even’ and it is ‘with the follow-up to the cultural promise’. It can't be misunderstood; it's a breach of promise, and it's a breach of contract. To the representative Knutson Barstad, I have to say that I will not answer for the priorities of the City Council in Oslo regarding the school of culture. I cannot confirm the information given in this respect either. But it was also not the City Council in Oslo that promised a cultural school offer to anyone who wanted it, of good quality and at a reasonable price. It is actually the government that has promised, and it is the government that is responsible for implementing and fulfilling its own promise. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen spoke hot for choir, and I'm glad to hear that we share both engagement and intentions in that area. I hope that much can come out of that consensus in the years to come. However, I would like to comment that when you use the word ‘corridor lift’, it is therefore an allocation of approximately 12-14 million. kr, and that is the second largest movement we have in the country. I fully agree with her description of the importance of the regional environments that conduct artistic basic research, as she said so eminently – very well expressed. However, there is no contradiction between building a professional flagship in Norway linked to an institution and strengthening those environments. It costs a few per million – less than 1 pst. The cost of the cultural budget is to do both, and it deserves the second largest movement of people in the country, namely the cormotion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2056	The government’s cultural commitment is incredibly important for the country’s municipalities and its art and cultural institutions to offer a good offer to the population. The submitted budget further increases the proportion of the state budget for cultural purposes to 0.92 p.m., and we are approaching the 1 p.m. target. Through the strengthening of cultural purposes since 2005, the government has given a boost to a wide range of cultural and volunteering purposes. This is evident from the increase in the cultural field between 2006 and 2012 of 3.8 billion. kr. In my home country, Eastfold, culture is one of the areas of activity of the majority of the county. Although the county is close to Oslo and all the cultural services that are there, it is important for its citizens to build up under their own identity and culture, among other things. with its own institutions and offers, and to build institutions that also have national and international focus. Several good art and cultural institutions have been built in the county, such as the County Gallery Point Ø, the Norwegian Blåseensemble, the Eastfold Museum and the Eastfold Theatre, as well as local cultural houses and services. The county institutions have been operating through cooperation between the county, the municipality and the state over many years, but no longer. On the right was the electoral winner in a number of municipalities in Eastfold and has formed a majority with, among others, The Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party in individual municipalities. As a result of this cooperation, which we now see in the 2012 budget decisions around the municipalities, it is cut into the positions of cultural and rural institutions. In Moss, the right-hand majority of city councillors in the budget cuts to Point Ø, with 500,000 kroner, which according to the agreement between the municipality, state and state may result in the others also cutting, and that there will be a total cut of about 2 million. kr. In an already tight budget, this makes the provision of the population — and children and young people through the cultural school system — considerably worse. The rates of the cultural school are increased far beyond the usual price rise and subsidies to all teams and associations are cut. These are examples from one municipality and show what is now happening in the cultural sector in some municipalities governed by the Right and the Advance Party. The fact that it is being cut in the cultural offer is well-known for the progressive party policy, and we can also see that from the proposals made by the Progress Party for the cultural budget, which are being discussed here today. But where has it become of Right Policy in the cooperation that is established in the municipalities? Cutting so brutally into the cultural budgets is not good right-wing policy, Christian People's Party policy or Left-wing policy? What we are now looking at in the municipalities of Eastfold is the result of a cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, where the last two parties are so small that they have very little impact on their affairs. It is more surprising that the Right has so little impact on its policy, and that they have fallen victim to the anti-art and anti-cultural policies of the Advance Party – despite the poor choice they made. The result is poorer municipalities, less attractive municipalities, and there are greater differences between those who can afford it and those who can't afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2067	I am pleased that the representative Gjul made contributions on the sports policy of the Progress Party, because then I am given the opportunity to give the true and correct answer. With the sports policy of the Progress Party, we would have changed the key – in line with the National Assembly of the Labour Party. This would have meant that Norwegian sport had received 600 million. kr more per year. Then we want foreign gaming companies to be allowed to establish themselves in Norway, with a licensing system, where a percentage of turnover goes for sports purposes, just like Norsk Typing. Part of it is devoted to combating gambling addiction and it is possible to give clear political guidance on how such companies should act on the market. The fact that there is less money for sport is therefore totally impossible to understand – then you have to be a member of what the Workers' Party is, namely state monopoly. This also applies to NRK. It's kind of funny to see that one of the workers' party representatives after another went up to the Stortingens pulpit to defend the ARK – correction: NRK. I'm sure there's a lot of good reasons for that. We have not said that the NRK is going into the commercial advertising market. There's no room for that, but we've been challenged in different ways to think about the relationship around the NRK. We find it anticompetitive that one media player should receive direct funding following decisions taken here in Stortinget, while the others have to go out and labor in a commercial market. In any case, the undersigned has come to the conclusion that others in the Committee have not received that message – I only get to register it. So it's like there's advertising on the NRK, but the NRK calls this advertisement sponsorship. You're in the exact same market where TV 2 and other players pick up their income. One way to do this is to let what is paid into the license, go into a fund, and then use that fund to distribute funds to actors who want to create different productions. Requirements can be set for the types of production to be carried out. Then you can set aside a part to produce children's televisions, some of which are busy, and other means can be used for completely different purposes. It's completely possible. But it's clear that the luxury that the NRK has today, in terms of getting close to 5 billion. kr, they will not have in the future. Finally, I also have to refer to our remarks, where we point out that the NRK spends production on externals for only 200 million. kr annually. When we heard about this in the budget, it was a strong wish from a whole industry that the NRK had to spend more of its production on other companies – so they could be producing and making good TV. But you don't want to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2080	Knowing that the issues I'm going to deal with now, are really those of other departments, and that it's not expected that the Council of State will answer, I'm still going to address some questions. In – to say – the series of budget debates we have had in the last few weeks, I have participated in many. I have done that because very central cultural policy areas are actually located in other departments. I miss – and here the Councils of Cultural States get into the picture – a stronger commitment or at least a stronger visibility of the role of the cultural area in some of these areas I am now going to mention. Firstly, language policy is very closely linked to the Ministry of Education through school. We note this year that the Education Directorate shows a systematic omission of Scandinavian education in schools – not good. We also see that the Ministry of Research in relation to higher education is a real plug in higher film education. The film school at Lillehammer is struggling with equipment, and they're struggling with a budget model that makes it possible to get a good education. In the past, we have been within the Ministry of Finance, which governs VAT and VAT regimes, which are also extremely important for cultural development. We have in the field of cultural memory protection the Ministry of Research and Education, which handles the scholarships for small crafts. And we have the Ministry of Transport, which handles the regimes for cable, which are crucial for the development of content online. I mention these things in the context -- I've addressed all of these things in previous budget debates. But I think it is important to stress that, as a committee in the Stortinget, but also the ministry and the Minister for Culture, we have a special responsibility to put pressure on the rest of the government apparatus. The representative Knutsen said earlier that the government has put culture at the top of the agenda. Yes, it might have it with regard to the Ministry of Culture, but the jam is the reason to raise questions about that is the case if you look at the government as a whole. As far as the debate is concerned, there have been questions about the municipalities in Eastfold. In general, I would like to say that if you read the statistics for cultural activities in the right-hand-driven municipalities, it's very good – it's actually best in the country, and I think that when it comes to cutting in the budget of the year, there are probably also right-headed municipalities in good company with the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2101	I thought I would use the opportunity just to respond to the representative, Håbreek, in terms of choir and vocal music. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is going in to support choir and vocal ensembles. That's very good. I also think that several of the opposition parties do, but it seems to me that maybe the Right is a little bit more on the path half of the red-green parties when it comes to thinking about how to do this. I have to remind you again that it was the red-green parties that really put choral and vocal music on the agenda. It happened very little when we had a Minister of Culture from the Christian People's Party – just to have said it. Then the representative said he wanted both. It is a heartfelt and good wish. But now it is time to give priority when you are in charge. What we have done is, first of all, to put choral and vocal music on the agenda of cultural policy, we are raising the issue of ensemble support, we are setting up a system of professionalisation, and so we are raising the budgets to five choirs in four different regions. The representative, Hope, is talking about having an elite choir, a large choir, an institutionalized choir. No matter what a priority debate – we have to choose one or the other – we have to ask ourselves: is everything to be institutionalised? Do we get what we want, by taking a cultural tradition, which might have a different story, and institutionalize it very strongly? I don't think with such a solution we get the genre diversity that we want in vocal music, or the diversity in terms of the size of these ensembles. I think that if we're going to raise the European vocal art music, we might be able to link some resources to the symphony orchestras and bring out orchestras that are linked to them. The symphony orchestras get a lot of money, and it's not sure that they need so much more to do anything in the vocal field. There might be my thoughts around this. But first of all: the vocal basic research, the genre diversity and the distribution of resources, so that we get professional environments and good environments in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2119	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2122	The usual history description of what happened over two major periods ago is a relatively weak excuse for those who now sit and rule the country and have done it for almost two major periods. I just have to tell the representative Knutsen that I understand very well her reflections and dilemmas about how to prioritize the funds. In fact, I very much agree with the assessments she makes, because they are given at one premise, and that is that we have a framework for spending on cows in Norway that is between 12 and 15 million. kr, which is equal to 0,2 pst. – 2 per million – of the entire cultural budget. I fully agree with Knutsen's priorities. The point is that the corpus movement has not been given that position in the cultural policy it deserves. We four-fiffold the budget and therefore give opportunities to do both parts, to bet on both regions, the different genres, the free field and professionalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2129	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 5. [[Votation, see pages 1748, 1759 and 1760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2145	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2154	Choir and vocal music plays a major and important role in Norwegian cultural life. The Committee agrees that it is important to strengthen and further develop mechanisms that increase the breadth of activity in choir and vocal ensembles. Singing is an activity that we can all participate in. In the committee we have done our part this year to contribute to vocal music through, among other things. recording in studio a few months ago. From the point of view of the Committee, we must say that it was a rather successful performance, with which we are satisfied, and which is a good contribution to the breadth of Norwegian vocal music. There are over 3,000 registered choirs, which together have over 100,000 singers. A Joint Committee agrees with the proposers that the cross section is important and that the performing choral music should be strengthened and have a natural place in Norway's international cultural effort. Korsang is suitable for promoting Norwegian culture internationally and at the same time bringing home impulses from other cultures and the international community. The right therefore agrees with the proposals from the Christian People's Party that Norwegian music exports abroad need to be strengthened through better profiling. This must be done in cooperation with industry, general government and industry's own organisations. The Norwegian Cultural Council's arrangements with means of activity for choirs need to be strengthened and further developed. The system provides a lot of culture for the money. It is necessary to further develop this system in order to ensure the continued good breadth of Norwegian choirs. Another prerequisite for strengthening choral and vocal music is a boost for the conductors. We believe that a corrigendum support scheme could help to increase competence and strengthen the further development of the corrigendum. On the right, a possible new aid scheme for conductors will be seen in the context of the training of conductors. The task of the Norwegian Cultural Council should be to determine how best to organise such a scheme. The study federations have an important role to play in ensuring cross-sectional competence and development. They provide adult training in different disciplines by about 20 study associations, and their work can be an important contribution to the development of competences in the respective fields. The proposal to create a new professional choir in Norway is not new, but it continues to create debate. The proposal addresses important points when pointing to the benefits that a professional choir in Norway can contribute to. There have been various attempts to professionalise how before, and we know that the Norwegian Cultural Council has proposed the creation of a professional choir in Oslo. The right believes that a professional choir should jump out of already existing environments. The NRK, the Philharmonic or the Opera may be possible partners for a professional choir in Norway. Right-wing support for the regionalisation of the crossroads that began in 2011 and, as of today, will not be in favour of the creation of a completely new professional choir, even though we support the wishes and intentions that lie behind this proposal, which we believe are very good. I will, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, address the proposals on which we stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2175	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2178	I'm glad we get this opportunity to discuss how special. Although we've had a long budget debate on cultural policy in the run-up to it, where at least the choir has been part of a theme, this is one of the very few, very rare, opportunities to discuss the choir field especially in the Stortinget. It deserves this field, because, as I have said before, it is a great movement of people in our country. There are 200,000 registered singers. It is therefore a large part of Norwegian cultural life. In every city and country, there is probably at least one choir — children's choirs, youth shoes, adult choirs, business shoes, student choirs, etc. The discussion of the Christian People's Party's proposals in the Committee and the Committee's vote shows that there is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that there is a desire to strengthen the corlives in Norway. That's good. Everyone is positive, so we can say that it seems like the whole committee is trying to sing the same tune, but the Christian People's Party is singing an octave over everyone else. We'll probably sing stronger, higher and with good support. The progress part may be a little tired of finding the basic tone. The government's parties try a little bit on a solo, but they may not make it sound quite preliminary. But we hope that it can get better. The right is the only party that sometimes matches the Christian People's Party in a duet, but still we stand alone on the big bet shown by the budgetary procedure. However, I believe that the focus we have now can provide a basis for the Norwegian choirs to get a simpler and better everyday life, and that, hopefully, more attention will be given to choral and vocal music as part of the cultural policy and the cultural initiative. There's been a lot of talk about the professionalization of cultural life. The debate on a professional choir has been going on for 20 years. When the government parties now say they're contributing to professionalization, I'll question whether that's right. For what does it really mean to be a professional choir? The government allocates outsourced funds to some actors. It is good for them to do so, and the Christian People's Party supports those appropriations, but it has relatively little to do with real professionalization. This has also been documented by the Norwegian Cultural Council in the evaluations that have been made. This field deserves that we are now taking action to establish a national professional choir. Such a national lift must be in addition to strengthening the existing ensembles. As the Christian People's Party's budgetary options show, it is possible, for the members of the government budget, to establish a new professional choir. We can triple the support for the Solist Choir, actually give them what they want and dream about. We can strengthen the regional environments that are well described here before today, which run on each of their artistic premises. We can strengthen them, we can give them what they dream of for the pro-miles of the state budget. We can get in bag and bag. A new professional ensemble shall have institutional prerequisites for carrying out stable artistic activities in line with the professional orchestras. It will contribute strongly to the preservation and further development of the national value of the choral art, and it will be a spearhead into an international market. We have the Broadcasting Orchestra, and now we also have to get a professional radio choir. A new professional choir will contribute to the vitalisation of the entire choir and music life in Norway. Now we have to make sure that the corpus movement gets the place it deserves. A lot of guys spend a lot of money on conductors. That's why I'm glad it looks like there's a majority to do something about a support scheme for conductors. I hope we can continue to work on finding good solutions for this field. We have to bet on the top, we have to bet on the width, we have to bet on children and young people, we have to give the corpus movement the place in the cultural effort that it deserves. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2199	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will note, since the representative, Håbräk, touched upon the fact that the Committee in the configuration does not sing in full, that the President as a conductor is not responsible for it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2204	I'm not going to spend a long time, I've said a lot in this case already, just make a very brief comment to the representative Hope and what he said about the Norwegian Culture Council report. That report was not a complete outline of what pofesionalisation is, or some thorough evaluation of how it is possible to professionalise the cor field, it was an indication of possible directions based on a short evaluation by the Council of Culture. In retrospect, it could be said that the Culture Council should have had longer time on that report and that evaluation in order to make it as thorough as it might initially have been in Stortingen's order or wish when it came to a professionalisation inquiry. Then I want to say to the representative Hope that the question of what is a professional ensemble is not related to the degree of institutionalization. Some of our top professional musicians are actually not employed anywhere. For example, the entire Norwegian jazz field, which makes it very sharp internationally, and folk music is a part of the music life that acts more like free ensembles or free performers. Our task in Stortinget is to give those who are in a kind of interlayer, a better financial condition for being able to function professionally. That was the idea that the Storting had initially been talking about professionalizing the cor field. It's not like you have to be 100 pst. employed in a permanent capacity to be a professional. Professionalism has first and foremost to do with quality. That's what professionalism is to be measured. Then there are many ways to it, but an economic foundation that can be granted as a framework, a good framework, provides different vocal ensembles and where an opportunity to lift its quality, the artistic quality. It's on the artistic quality we're going to measure the degree of professionalism. That's the main starting point of the red-green parts, and that's what we want to do more to do for the crossroads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2217	There is no doubt that the traditions are strong in the Christian People's Party. I think all the representatives in this room can bend in the dust for that. But in one area, I think all the parties are doing better than the Christian People's Party representatives in the hall, and that's in the case of drinkers. It's also part of the song culture that many people take care of. On the other hand, it should not be supported financially, in my view. It's also so that the voice we're supposed to listen to most in this discussion is the best voice of all, namely Tove Karoline Knutsens. I think her posts in an excellent way underline what should be the broad lines of the Chorus policy of the years to come. Through the cultural promise, we have put emphasis on Norwegian music in every song, with a good and varied concert offer, and we have strengthened the orchestras and ensembles. We will also strengthen the allocations to cows and corps, including: through conductor development. I agree that we need to strengthen the crossroads. But there are a lot of different perceptions of how the crossroads should be organized – almost as many perceptions as there are voices in a choir. I have recently received various input and suggestions from politicians, organisations, choirs and individuals. It shows that the corset is engaged by many. Today we have one fully professional choir, and that's the Opera choir. Here are cross singers employed full-time. However, there are several choirs that engage professional singers in part-time activities, and that otherwise operate almost professionally, such as: The soloist choir, and we know that there are very many people who are engaged in different amateur choirs around the country. When we look at the crossroads, we also have to look at what is happening in the symphony orchestras, because they also present corsets, and we have to look at the regional and district operas, which use many local and regional choirs and choral singers in their production. To ignore these when describing how much the government is betting on culture, I don't think you should do if you take all the votes in this discussion. So I mean the best way to strengthen the cor field is to further develop the choirs we have, and build on the diversity of choirs that already exist. I believe that we already have a significant commitment today, but we want to strengthen it. In the 2012 budget, we have proposed a strengthening of the grants to, among others. The soloist choir, Nordic Voices, Trondheim Voices, Kor West and Vocal Nord together 3 million. NOK 7 million in total. kr. There has been a significant increase over several years. The Culture Council also provides support to the said choirs and other choirs, e.g. through the ensemble support. Then there is one area that the representative, Håbrek, omits when he describes how much money the government spends on choirs, and that's what we give on choirs and vocals to non-governmental organizations. For 2010, it was 9.3 million. kr, and it's just going to the local choirs, which we're all busy with to be strengthened. We also support stand-alone choirs and vocal ensembles with children and young people through Frifond music in Norwegian Music Council. The Ministry has an additional 1.2 million. kr to funds for activities of choirs managed by the Norwegian corrigendum. Although we have a broad stake in the crossroads, I also want to strengthen the crossroads in the years to come. We support the proposal for an action or support scheme for conductor development, both to increase competence and to improve the quality of Norwegian conductors, but also to ensure more qualified conductors. I see that this can be done in several different ways. Therefore, I would like to ask the Norwegian Cultural Council to carry out an investigation into how support for conductor development can and should be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2238	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2241	In this case, I have a great deal of understanding of the government's approach and their desire to preserve the diversity we see in the cross-section. Right, you want growth in this area in the free space, too. We want growth from below, and we want to support under the initiatives that come from the cor field itself. That is well in line with what we have also signaled in comments on the budget. So, when it's said, the Council of State pointed out that there is a professional choir, namely in the Opera. In addition, the Right believes that it would be exciting to also work out a professional choir in, we should say, the classic genre associated with the Philharmonic and the NRK – not as a short term goal, but in a slightly longer perspective. Is there anything the government could think of?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2250	There are several symphony orchestras looking at cooperation with the choir. They've done this in different ways. Some have cooperated through already established choirs, while others have built up their own crucifixion. So there have been different models in different regions, and I think we should be careful to say that there is one model that fits all over Norway. One model has been chosen in Trondheim and another model in Eastern Europe. So here, I think we need a lot of different models to get more votes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2256	It was said very sensible in the posts of the Council of State, and I greatly appreciate her support for the development of a support scheme for conductors, which is at the heart of the development of choirs. That sounds promising to me. So I'd like to nuance my descriptions of the government's bet. If there's a basis for that, I'd like to mention it in an even more precise way by later intersections. But it's still a fact that we're talking about the pro-miles of the state budget, and the Christian People's Party has shown that it's possible to re-prioritize to do something about it. My challenge to the Council of State is: Could we agree that we are now going to set a new target for the co-ordination, so that by 2014 we will grant 1 pst. of the cultural budget to cows?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2263	To the extent that I want to set concrete goals in this field, I want to do so in dialogue with the Christian People's Party. But I don't want to bring a specific number over the table now – I want to look at that in more detail. But I was yesterday visiting the Source in Kristiansand. There's Opera South. They've just started an amazing collaboration with a choir called the Silver Smurfs. Only people over 60 years of age are allowed to sing in this choir – and here with professionals in Opera South. It's just this kind of initiative, which is about cooperation between amateurs and professionals, that doesn't appear in the numbers Hope presents here for the hall, but that we want to strengthen in the years to come. As part of the public development of all cultural institutions, it is precisely working with where one of the essentials of recruiting a new audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2268	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State's consideration of the environments to which she refers, and how where it interacts with other cultural life, and is also important for its development. But when the Council of State makes its assessments relating to the establishment of a new professional choir, I understand to the extent – when one has to prioritise within a relatively tight economic framework, with which I was perceived to be operating for vocal music – the assessments she makes. But if you have the power to spend more money – as the Christian People's Party has done – on how, are there other arguments than economic ones that go against the establishment of a new professional choir in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2275	That is first and foremost quality. I think we are developing the greatest possible degree of diversity, and also quality, by investing in the cows we have today. The soloist choir, which consists largely of soloists, is very good singers. So I think it's also about developing the good environments we already have and building on them. I am convinced that this is also the best, on the basis of quality criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2287	I have said most of the things I should like to say in this debate. I just wanted to respond a little bit to Mr. Tove Karoline Knutsen's posts, which I think was a very good post, which describes the vitality, possibilities and many of the premises of what's going on in choir and vocal music around the country. Those environments must be allowed to evolve on their premises – I fully agree with the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen. And then we have to add up to a policy that allows us to give each of the environments, on their premises, the opportunity to continue to evolve. I hope we can succeed in that, too. But I guess my assessment is that I can't see any contradiction between it and the establishment of a new professional and institutionalized choir at the same time, because there are many advantages to it too, related to stability, development, etc. I can see no contradiction between strengthening the different environments we have, on their premises, and establishing the new institution as a national flagship. I believe that it is possible to do both. I also believe that the history of the professionalization debate shows that there has not been such a strong lead that it was only to support the established environments that were in the professionalisation discussion. On the contrary, the idea of a new flagship like this has been a strong driver behind the process that has been taking place and that has been involved for over many years in both the Storting, the Ministry and the Council of Culture. That debate does not intend to kill the Christian People's Party. I also hope that, after we have finished this matter, the debate will show – when we gradually get more opportunities in this field, and the Christian People's Party will hopefully have a greater impact on the budgets – that the corset movement in Norway is so vital that we can manage to support the regional environments, we can support the various artistic expressions we have in the crossroads, and at the same time we can establish a new institutionalised flagship in this area, which the Norwegian corset movement deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2294	In the Christian People's Party's alternative state budget more than quadruple we allocate to choirs. The Christian People's Party will give the corlives of Norway a great boost. The goal of the Christian People's Party is to 1 pst. of the cultural budget to go to choirs by 2014 – we have heard that in the past. We've started this escalation! We give you the location of a bet that gives the field the status it deserves. I would like more parties in this Chamber to be able to support this proposal. The cultural budget has increased in recent years. It's really great, it's positive. Choir only receives between 12 and 15 million. kr in total in the government’s draft budget for 2012. In our proposal, we're increasing the bet by 50 million. kr. We want to establish a professional radio choir. This has been discussed for almost 20 years, with constant discussions as to whether a new location will take the resources from other cohesive environments. We point out that it is fully possible both to establish a new profession and to provide regional environments and the best choirs in Oslo with full counting based on their wishes and ambitions. Other Nordic countries are doing this. What could be the reason why the rich Norway does not get it? It's not about economics, says the Council of State, but about quality. As many children's and youth shoes as we have in this country, citizens for good quality on the choirs and good recruitment to a professional choir. The ensemble support must be increased for the choirs. The Christian People's Party will have an establishment support for choirs, and we will have a support scheme for choralists. And here's the majority, that's good. Activity support, managed by the Culture Council, needs to be increased. It ensures that both width and top can be raised financially. When we carry out a cultural promise, we have to end the discussion that has taken place, about who will lose, and who will win, when the funds are to be distributed. The corset movement is the second largest after sport. It's been defrosted with small amounts of money. Now it is time for the choral music, the cor-environment, to be given its legal place in Norwegian cultural life and in cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2309	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose to deal with cases No. 7 and 8 as a whole, and considers it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1761]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2338	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2347	The issues in the vote were mainly discussed earlier, in the financial debate we had here on 24 November. I will therefore limit myself to referring to the financial debate and the setting there and just briefly comment on a few points. Firstly, it is important to note that there is a unanimous committee which agrees that tasks that will be particularly prioritised by the Ministry of Finance in 2012 are work on the management of the State pension fund, legislative work in the financial market area, increased compliance and efforts against tax evasion and other financial crime, and work on sustainable development and climate. These are all major and important issues, both nationally and internationally, and we look forward to returning to these issues through 2012. The management of what is happening outside our borders and its consequences for our country will, of course, have the main focus in the coming year as well. Nothing is more important than safe economic governance in turbulent times. At the same time, it is important that the other points be taken into account, because they are of great importance both to our country's public finances and to our future sustainability, both economically and in general. Secondly, I think it is very gratifying that a broad majority of the committee – all except the members of the Progress Party – in the vote have joined the government parties' remark on the increased focus on involving apprentices in our underlying public sector bodies. The multi-academic and enhanced implementation of secondary education is very important for the management of Norway’s future workforce. It is important to stress that good trade union workers are the prerequisite for a sustainable and well-functioning society and business. It is gratifying that such a broad majority agrees with it, and that this broad majority has asked the government to ensure that the underlying agencies – including in our field – increase the number of apprentices in 2012 and at the same time develop targets for the number of apprentices in the various underlying agencies. Facilitating a sufficient number of people to complete their training as a skilled worker is really central to recruiting future professionals with the right skills. It is important that the public sector contributes to securing future apprenticeships in the disciplines that society needs. Thirdly, there is a small but pleasant thing in this setting that I as a former education policy must be allowed to comment on. In fact, the government parties have been in favour of a few minor changes in the amount of money also in this position, as a result of adjustments in the church, education and research fraction, on the question of full support for students at selected universities in the so-called BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia, India and China. The note in the nomination of the Church, Education and Research Committee will make it easier for Norwegian students to study in countries that are of major importance to Norway, and that is good. This is a question that many of us have been concerned about for a long time, and it is extra happy that this is now in place. And with that, I'm going to present the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2364	Mostly in this setting there is a great deal of consensus around, but the Progress Party promotes more proposals that I want to give a little attention to, and I also want to take the opportunity to formally promote them. The proposals are matters that we believe the Ministry of Finance should give priority to working with in the coming year, because it will strengthen budgetary work on the Stortinget. One of them is distinguishing budgetaryly between costs and investments. It is a paradox that we can transfer almost unlimited oil money to state enterprises that can invest money in the Norwegian economy, but if we had proposed to grant the same money as aid or other similar investments over the State budget, it would be covered by the rule of action. The leader of the centre party has addressed this issue and has expressed the same points as the Progress Party has. This will also be a problem that needs to be addressed when making a decision on short-haul trains, if any, which cannot be found between 200 and 500 billion. kr for lightning bet within the action rule. The same thing would have to happen with regard to fighter aircraft. I hope that debate can be taken seriously by the government and not be swept away, as one has unfortunately seen that the Prime Minister has done. It takes us further to another proposal, namely on long-term budgeting. There are some things you could do in the budget, which would blow up some budget frameworks in the short term, but if one could point to effects in the longer term, a set of things would sometimes be a cost to income acquisition later on. In this way, one can make the effects of good investment visible today by reducing expenditure, or increasing revenue, a little in time. Thus, a person can defend it in a way other than when budgeting for expenditure today — without income. It takes us further to the proposal on dynamic effects. We had a debate on dynamic effects in the financial debate two or three weeks ago. That debate was a bit caricatured by, for example: The Prime Minister gave the impression that dynamic effects are only about believing that if you cut a tax, you will increase the income of the state. There are none of the parties in this magnification that have claimed. On the contrary: to the extent that the batches use dynamic effects in their alternative state budget – the Progress Party does – no one is close to claiming that one then gets 100 pst. self-financing rate. The progress party has added 25 pst. self-financing rate, which is lower on the right. The point is that we must discuss the realities and not make a bickering, as the Prime Minister did. The Progress Party has asked a number of questions to the Minister of Finance to try to confirm the background to the Prime Minister's claims, but we note that such a background does not exist on the part of the government, and thus there are up-to-date examples and debates. But it is important to look at, also in the budget: what will be the effect of a tax change – both up and down? Some tax reliefs or increases will have significant effects on the economy, and others will have no significant secondary effects. In order to further tailor a tax system in order to see where we get the best effect with the least possible negative impact on employment, labour supply and investment, we also need to have a transparent way of assessing dynamic effects – not because it should help in creative budgeting, but simply because one should be able to assess a better professional impact of one tax relief compared to another, or one tax increase compared to another – although the Progress Party is not very happy lately. I note that the Minister of Finance, in response to the Progress Party, has accepted the existence of dynamic effects. So let's finish that part of the debate. But I hope that one could also be positive in assessing how to use it in budgetary terms. The last thing I want to mention is about the sensitivity in the budget. There was a debate in the financial debate on the budget that was well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The government parties claimed that it was excellently adapted. I am a little more in doubt, simply because the world has changed a lot compared to when the budget was presented. We got an example of that yesterday. It is quite special when the Norwegian Bank cuts the interest rate by half a percentage point in fear of cooling, while in the debate two to three weeks earlier we gave the impression that 1 billion. from or to the State budget, the difference was high or low. It says a little bit that the economy is more advanced than the budget debate gave the impression. I would also like to know a little more about how the budget – the structural, oil-corrected surplus and deficit – is adjusted in relation to increased investment on Norwegian soil. That's what I'm going to get back to in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2387	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2390	Just a few comments from my side as well. Most of the issues were expounded in the financial debate itself, so there is no need to take any action about them. We are promoting a few proposals in this position relating to Innovation Norway with seed capital, capital contributions to CLIMIT, CO2 management and capital contributions to Norwegian cultural memory funds. In addition, the Right, together with the other civil parties, promotes a proposal to look at the dynamic effects of fiscal policy. I can very well join the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen because we got a very special debate and debate form from the red-green parties in the financial debate, where it was claimed by the Prime Minister: ‘We are witnessing the ultimate death of dynamic fiscal policy.’ And from Knut Storberget's representative: ‘The debate today emphatically put to death the claim of dynamic fiscal policy.’ [[...]] If the red-green parties first discovered in that debate that there was no professional basis to claim that tax reductions are self-financing, I must be allowed to say that they have discovered it fairly late. No one in this room has ever claimed that tax reductions are self-financing. On the other hand, the civil parties, like the Ministry of Finance, have established that there are dynamic effects of tax reductions, especially when these affect the supply of labour. It is well documented through the evaluation of the tax reform. The Ministry of Finance and the Government itself used dynamic effects when changing the pensioner tax for the current year, and in response to questions to the Stortinget, the Ministry of Finance has also calculated the dynamic effects of tax reductions. That is the debate the civil parties have invited to, not claiming that tax reductions should be self-financing, because of course they are not – but it does not have the proceeds of which the Ministry of Finance often gives the impression. What we've invited you to do is simply that you get a better professional proof of such calculations. The SSB has done a good professional job, but we want to have a broader composite selection and have a case presented to the Stortinget. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Right has either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2412	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2415	It is important that the Ministry of Finance and key institutions have muscle and capacity to face financial and debt crises in an offensive manner. More and more traces of the euro’s decline, and there is no doubt that Norway will be increasingly affected by the problems in the world. We need to prepare for the worst and be active to bring about system changes internationally that can give us greater security. New approaches to the financial sector will be necessary. Activity taxes should be introduced and more offensive capital requirements, as well as changes to the rules for banks operating in branches, etc. There is a alarming need for measures limiting the financial sector, both its scale and the way it can operate. The price of CO2 allowances fell on Wednesday to record low EUR 6.3, i.e. less than NOK 50. I would like to stress that with today's international regime on greenhouse gases, the quota grid will not be close to solving the climate problem. SV strongly supports Norway's participation in the EU quota market and its contribution to making it as tight as possible, but none of those who seriously believe that the climate problem is the greatest challenge for our generation can rest assured that the quota price will trigger decisions that will reduce climate emissions sufficiently to avoid irreversible changes. Let me then spend a little time decorating two dilapidated floors relating to this budget. Neither the tax rate nor the tax rate will win any popularity contests, but they are absolutely essential for Norway to be repeatedly identified with the world’s best country to live in. Since we all pay out of income, wealth and consumption, we have a common interest in collecting the money as efficiently as possible, without going at the expense of justice. Therefore, it is very important that the tax rate is at global level when it comes to using new technologies. Most people still remember the pess we had to fill in the tax returns earlier in the day, find bank statements and annual tasks to fill in and fight to reach the Equation Office before midnight. Now we get a pre-filled declaration that we don't need to deliver, if the information is correct. In addition to saving taxpayers too much time and irritation, 800 annual works have been saved in the tax rate. It is an efficient public sector. Corresponding approaches have been made to the reporting of business. Altin has made the form everyday much easier for business. 90 pst. the declarations from traders and companies were delivered electronically via Altinn in 2009. These are examples that show a well-functioning establishment that does the job it's set up, in an effective way. That's why I'm surprised and disappointed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are making a big cut in the financial administration. For example, the propulsion party cuts. the entire allocation of major IT projects in the tax haven. Investments to make digital solutions the first choice for public service users — both individuals and businesses — are very profitable. The tax base is primarily located in this area. If the budget of the Progress Party were adopted, some of the most profitable investments in the public sector would not be carried out. There is a special policy for a party that is not afraid to use the community's money. Where the Right wants to cut 135 million. kr, is not so easy to get hold of. It does not show either the current setting, the financial setting, or the Right Alternative Budget. It's in itself spectacular. Since they explicitly write that the Financial Supervisory Authority should be strengthened, I assume that the other agencies must participate in the cut. The opposition is concerned, both in the setting and in posts here in the Chamber, with the dynamic effects of its budget proposals. The Progress Party expects that employees and businesses, if taxed in 2012, will increase their effort to 25 pst. the tax expense is recovered through increased tax revenue in the same year. In this calculation, there are some interesting assumptions about the efforts of Norwegian workers. I'm not going to go into it any further, but I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not equally concerned with the dynamic effects of their cut suggestions. The employees of the tax office generate income that operates schools, kindergartens and hospitals. When the Advance Party cuts 435.6 million. kr and Right Cuts an unknown million in the operation of the tax bill, they have to cancel a lot of people. This means poorer service to taxpayers, longer processing time and less control activities. That's a bad business policy. It means fewer kroner paid, which means that more tax exemptions remain undiscovered, so that serious traders get more difficult jobs. That means that there will be fewer tax dollars to distribute. This dynamic effect has forgotten to include the Right Party and the Advance Party in its budget. Obviously, if you change the way we budget as radically as this is about, we'll raise probable problems in the future that we don't need, and especially not at a time when predictability and accountability are more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2435	First, just a brief comment on the question of the dynamic effects of fiscal policy. On the part of the government parties, we agree in principle that fiscal policy is of great importance, for example. labour benefits, but it is a little sad that we could not have agreed more on where the effect is greatest, namely in those who are part-time workers, including those who earn little, and who have a significant motivation to do more if they are more tax incentives to do so. The right-wing parties have no particular sense of such a tax policy that stimulates those who earn little through tax relief, and that is regrettable. These tax reliefs have to be reintroduced in other areas and, as many have been involved on the part of the government parties, increased taxation of the financial sector is most topical when we look at it in a context of business taxation elsewhere. Only a few points and a few comments: when goods are imported, the general rule is that customs duties and charges are to be paid on border crossings, and it is good that this proposition provides that the fee on credit declarations is reduced from 75 kroner to 47 kroner in order to avoid over-prices. This results in a reduction in direct savings of 90 million. kr for business. Otherwise, there's a focus on the tax rate. The tax rate is incredibly important. It has a budget of 4,355 million. kr, and I would like to draw attention to the recent report of the Riksrevision on the reorganisation of the tax haven. The conclusions of the Riksrevision are, unfortunately, disappointing reading. The report shows that, overall, checks on traders and companies are not strengthened, appeal proceedings take too long, and tax information and tax offices provide too poor responses to users. The report is now before the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and I hope that it will be done in a thorough manner, so that we can ensure that such major reforms are carried out in such a way as to achieve the objective. In particular, it is alarming that the tax rate does not have basic data to assess the extent to which the target has been achieved or is not – it is not in place, cf. The National Audit Office's report. Otherwise, what is important in the case of taxes is that municipal tax recoveries continue to be retained. That's a big advantage. The proximity and awareness of taxpayers is central. Industry is facing a challenging situation, and innovation is becoming even more central to Norway than it is today. Innovation Norway receives loans from the state fund for lending activities. There is an estimate of the total borrowing appropriation of 42.1 billion. kr, and it is important that we ensure sufficient money for Innovation Norway, because it is becoming more important. What has been one of the challenges and is going to be the challenge to an even greater extent is that we will find that a number of forward-looking companies that have liquidity problems, within Innovation Norway, will have problems getting risk loans. Innovation Norway must then focus more on the real values of the enterprise, the potential it has for the future, and use a discretion, so that the enterprise does not get into a precarious economic situation. There are far greater socio-economic consequences for the enterprise than if we practise the legislation of Innovation Norway, so that these companies can obtain the necessary risk capital. As the credit market is now developing, it is rather that the private to the degrees are retreating, and then Innovation Norway needs to learn to take on the social responsibility that is necessary here. Finally, the Financial Supervisory Authority’s guidelines on increasing equity for residential applicants from 10 p.m. to 15 pst. It is an important measure. It is a necessary measure to ensure that those buying dwellings do not encounter difficulties if the housing market changes. It is important to combine this with the fact that we are still going to have the start-up loan scheme from the Husbank. There is still a very important system that allows more people to enter the housing market. I just want to finish by saying that the situation we are now in demands that the culture of savings be promoted more in competition with the culture of consumption. Then I hope that next round the government will be able to look at the BSU scheme, so that young people will have better opportunities to save money to finance their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2454	With regard to the last thing that was said, about the Financial Supervisory Authority's proposal to increase the equity requirement to 15 p.m., I can agree with much of what the representative Lundtigen says, except that it is also proposed that start-up loans should fall within the same scheme. I would strongly warn against that. Start-up loans are loans granted to young people and to people with disabilities and otherwise have major difficulties in entering the housing market. If you come with the same requirement for equity, I am afraid that the entire start-up loan scheme will fall away. I also need a little clarification: the representative Sanner points to a proposal where the Right and the other bourgeois parties are involved. He then refers to the proposal to look at the dynamic effects in the short and long term in terms of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. That proposal is also supported by the Christian People's Party. Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center Party. I just wanted to clarify it, so there won't be any misunderstandings here. Otherwise, in the Christian People's Party, we took up our views and gave a thorough account of our views in the financial debate, so I don't intend to spend time repeating this right now. But I would like to address the suggestions that we are included in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2465	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold brought up the proposals he referred to, as well as carrying out an ideological clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2469	First of all, I would like to take the floor to include the proposal from the Left in the vote – that is what has been done. It would have been tempting to say something about dynamic tax policy from my side, too, after claims in the financial debate that the Left has left the centre, because we suggested a relief in the capitalisation of the property tax of 10 p.m. In other contexts too, there have been allegations that the Left has been given a clearer and clearer right profile, precisely because we have proposed these reliefs in the wealth tax. I hope we can have a major debate on this at a later stage, but I noticed with interest the chairman of the Central Party in Dagsrevyen on Tuesday, which the representative Lundtägen did not come up with. So for some specific things in the setting we are now dealing with. Firstly, the trade in climate allowances: the left is somewhat surprised at this in terms of both the purchase and sale of climate allowances. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Left has been critical of the government’s budgeting for the purchase of allowances. So far, there have been only purchases of allowances for a small fraction of what has been set aside in the budgets. Of total appropriations of SEK 2.3 billion kr for this period is only 561.5 million. kr, or equivalent 24 pst., actually used. I had hoped that the finance minister could say a little about this if he took the floor in this debate. Also, in terms of the sale of climate allowances, in our view, there is a special budgeting. The government is assuming an average allowance price of NOK 110 for 2012, while yesterday's price was EUR 6.58, or equivalent to NOK 46 – that is far below the government's estimated value. It is therefore unlikely that the budgeted revenue will be SEK 1.1 billion. kr is realistic. As a result of the economic crisis in many EU countries, there is little evidence that the demand for allowances will be particularly high in 2012, and the level of prices will remain stable rather than rise to the level of government intervention. The second concrete thing I want to address is the proposal for the recapitalisation of the investor. Unfortunately, this appears exclusively as a symbol policy, as the Left sees it. Investinor received 2.2 billion. SEK in investment capital at the time of its creation in 2008, while not more than SEK 667.7 million has been invested so far. kr. The left is therefore inconsistent with the proposal to increase the investment framework of Investinor by a further 1.5 billion. kr. We believe that it would be much more targeted to wind up the entire Investinor and transfer today's portfolio to a focused Innovation Norway or to a new investment company for climate and environmental technology, Climate Change, as the Left suggests in this setting, and as we also talked about during the financial debate. We also believe that strengthening SIVA's equity would be much more targeted than strengthening SIVA's equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2482	The representative of Borghild Tenden has taken up the proposals to which she referred and which are included in the Committee's position on case No. Eight. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2487	First of all, I want to correct a little misunderstanding. It was mentioned that the Progress Party did not participate in a comment on apprentices. It's funny enough, because this is a matter of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Department, and something like that, that you have a note about apprentices, and that we need to focus on it. I'm sure it was a technical mistake. But once it has been mentioned, I would like to remind you of the proposals of the Progress Party in our alternative state budget, which has been promoted here in this Chamber, the removal of the employer's fee for apprentices and the increase of the apprentice's allowance by 250 million. kr – I believe it was. If you're going to do something about it first, I actually think it's kind of creepy just to write some notes that there should be more apprentices. Action may need to be followed up. In this case, I would like to draw attention to the growing bureaucracy of the tax administration, the Customs and Tax Directorate and the Finance Administration. Despite more and more electronic filing of declarations, e.g., and in other areas, there have been no fewer employees in the establishment. No faster feedback has been received in the case of e.g.: too much tax paid. An example I would like to use is our neighbouring country in the east, Estonia, where you actually deliver electronic tax returns, and two to three days later, you might get tax returns on your account. Here in Norway, this is going on in several pools, and it will take about a month and a half. Some – myself included, and even though it was a more or less simplified declaration – got tax settlement only at the end of October. You can question why it takes so long and why there are no greater demands for efficiency. So to these two books I brought with me: this thick book right here is the Customs Tariff, and here we have the equation ABC, which is quite complex, and which illustrates a little bit of the complex legislation that most people and business have to deal with, and which I really doubt that the average taxpayer has knowledge. We also have a high customs wall around Norway, with illogical rules that could have been a perfect script for a stand-up comedian, but that has many unfortunate consequences, not least all of these customs rates on, for example. butter that has been the subject of the last few weeks, but there are also many other fun examples for both textiles and many agricultural products. I hope some parties may support our simplification proposals that we are promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2505	Only a few comments on some claims made during the debate. First to the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen: the right is committed to having a strong and effective tax rate to combat tax evasion. When someone sneaks away from paying taxes, others have to pay more taxes. When the Right has reduced something on the tax bill, it has its background in our proposal to remove the inheritance tax. We then rely on figures from the Ministry of Finance on how much red tape can be reduced by removing the entire inheritance tax, so that this proposal does not go beyond anything in terms of combating tax evasion. We are also strongly committed to strong financial supervision. Therefore, the Right proposes to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority. Then I just have to complain to the representative Bekkevold that I used the term ‘bourgeois parties’ in the three parties plus a party that is behind the proposal. I am a strong lover of diversity. So let's include both non-socialist, bourgeois, and Christian-democratic centers behind this proposal. So to Lundtigen, who started by saying that it was a pity that the ‘right parties’ or the ‘bourgeois parties’ – I don’t know what concept he used – were not concerned with dynamic effects for part-time employees or people with low incomes. That's exactly what the right is concerned about. In the proposal for a State budget, Right-wing tax reductions are not proposed for those with high wage incomes. The whole of the Right's proposals on the income side are linked to low and usual employee income. The highest tax relief at the right is to increase the minimum deduction and increase the percentage of the minimum deduction, which is precisely linked to stimulating people to go from social security to work, from half-time to full-time, and that those with low incomes will be able to work more. That's the point. I am therefore pleased that Lundtegegen obviously agrees with parties on the non-socialist, bourgeois side of this case, and the representative Lundtegegen is also obviously in agreement with the last he raised on the BSU, which is an important matter, and which is going to become an even more important matter now as the requirements for equity increase. That is why I invite Lundtigen to join in a debate on the proposal for a representative from four parties in this House, which is being discussed in the Committee on Finance and which is coming up in the new year. Then there will be opportunities for an overall expansion to discuss the matter and to put leadership in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2522	I have to clear up two obvious misunderstandings. Firstly, the representative Lundtigen argues against better knowledge. It is unfair to claim that the Right Party and the Advance Party have not understood where the labour incentives are with the greatest effect in a tax relief. The Progress Party proposes 9 billion. kr i reduced taxes on income of individuals – 1 billion. kr was from top tax and the rest from bottom tax – precisely because we know that if you want to stimulate the labour force, it is those with low and medium income who respond most to tax relief. Secondly, I would like to encourage the representative of Thorkildsen to read the Financial Newspaper from the day after the Progress Party promoted its alternative state budget, and the SSB's assessment of the dynamic effects. However, let's take an imaginary number and say that the savings rate in Norway is between 5 and 10 pst – at least that's the SSB figure. That means 90-95 pst. a tax relief will go into the economy in the form of consumption or investment. Consumption will primarily be subject to value added. People don't necessarily buy more food with better income, but they buy more of other things. So not half a matmom's is an argument against using 25 pst. In addition, it stimulates the provision of work. You will then have an effect both on tax revenue and on changes in the labour supply in the market. Then we think it's likely that we can say 25 pst. in a dynamic power. I can participate in a debate that we discuss whether it should be 22 pst., 27 pst., 18 pst. or 32 pst., but first the red-green parties must be involved in discussing whether there are at all dynamic effects, because it denies the Prime Minister's existence. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would take part in this debate, but when I did not get the chance to change lines, I would still challenge him directly. The Minister of Finance claims that the budget was well adapted. However, Norway’s Bank sees the need to cut interest rates by half a percentage point, due to fear of cooling. Then the entire debate we had on plus/minus 1 billion. NOK and interest and exchange rate, quite meaningless. We have asked the Minister of Finance twice to ask about the sensitivity of the structural oil-corrected oil deficit – how is that affected, the chalk line of the government on what is the responsible use of money, if oil investments increase by 20 billion? kr or be reduced by 20 billion. kr in relation to what one has foreseen? We saw that the oil companies adjusted their investments by 5 billion. NOK without anyone worrying about it. Will increase planned Norwegian oil investment in 2012 by 20 billion. Does this mean that one must reduce the cost side of the State budget by an equivalent amount for the pressure in the economy to be identical? Or is that how the Minister of Finance wrote the last answer to the undersigned, that it doesn't mean anything? So in that case, it's pretty special that if 1 billion. kr more or less on the government budget may have a huge impact on interest and interest rates, while 20 billion. kr more or less on the Norwegian base does not mean anything in relation to the pressure in the Norwegian economy – then I have fallen off the load. Then I should like to see the Minister of Finance clarify how these calculations are actually done. Money spent on the mainland cannot have a significant impact, while money spent on the sea does not have an effect — as long as both parts take place within Norwegian territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2541	It's a very exciting discussion of this with the dynamic effects. But then I would also encourage a round of welfare states, for example, the dynamic effect of kindergartens and the dynamic effects of having elderly care that avoids women falling into a part-time position to take care of their sick elderly. I guess it's as interesting as discussing the dynamic effects of tax relief. The dynamic effects of cutting, which I was in here instead, are also highly relevant to including in the debate. But discussing it is now one thing, budgeting with it is something quite different. So let's cross a line. The fact that the Advance Party does so is not surprising, but that the Right is willing to do so is very surprising. I believe that when we look around in Europe and see how countries are struggling because they have just started on some more creative solutions for budgeting, we should at least take a step back and learn from the mistakes that have been made, and not begin to ape after the countries that have made huge mistakes, which they regret today. Then there's also the discussion of dynamic effects, which becomes speculation because we don't know exactly how much money it's about, a dangerous way to move out on, and we'll warn the most strongly against doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2550	Jan Tore Sanner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2553	To the extent that the Right apes after someone, the apes looked right after the government, after the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance has informed the Røjres Storingsgruppe that, among other things. an increase in the peak tax entry point results in a dynamic effect for 2012. When the government itself presented the 2011 budget, a dynamic effect was included by changing the pensioner’s tax. So the Right is following up what the Ministry of Finance is proposing. The problem, which has been the problem in Europe, is not that the impact of dynamic tax policies has been excessive, but that, in some countries, there has been such a rotten tax system that many have not paid taxes. This has been the problem in some countries, including the United Kingdom. in Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2562	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2565	This is going to be a pretty hopeless debate. How in all days does the government obtain its estimate of tax revenue for a year? How, in all days, does the government come up with its estimates of employment in a year? It's because you have assumptions. I would assume that the government is not just sitting and passing on the tax revenue of the year and saying that it must be this way this year as well. One looks at business cycle, looks at how a believe thing will happen and makes some estimates of what it will mean for tax revenue. – At least let me hope that this is how it happens. Or is it how the SV representative Bård Vegar Solhjell describes in his book that everyone is sitting and hesitating about what they had last year in fear that if they make a change, they will lose a penny. That is why no reforms are being made in this government. It's from their own men to have it obvious! I think Solhjell is open and honest, and that's very good. Starting to talk about dynamic effects in Norway is like starting to budget like Greece — then there are not many substantive arguments in stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2575	No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute. The President would also like to add between the posts that there are other books that describe the budgetary work of the government, which can be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2580	Blue notes e.g.Oh, my God! There are two problems with right-hand reasoning here. One is that we don't know how big the dynamic effects are. Starting to shoot them and put them into the budgets in the way that the right-hand side has chosen to do, especially the Advance Party, is scary. The second is the belief in tax relief as a universal instrument. That's one of the things you've just been looking at around us in the world. This is the case with the United States, and most countries in Western Europe, which have invested a great deal in tax relief and, most importantly, with those who already have the most – exactly as the right-hand side has chosen to prioritise in this room. This has meant that there has been an increased inequality that has both contributed to a crisis, for example. has been given an inflated financial sector, and in addition, it is difficult to deal with the crisis with effective instruments because people do not trust their politicians – they lack legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2589	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 7 and 8. [[Fotation, see page 1762]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2605	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2621	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2638	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2654	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2670	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2686	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2702	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2718	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2734	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2742	The size should then vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2750	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 9, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2, 3 and 10, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4 to 7 and points 11-22, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 8, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to propose a parental leave scheme for which 10 weeks are reserved for each parent.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2780	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the introduction of a simpler regulation and a network banking solution for parental leave.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2797	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it to establish an independent supervision of kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking to come back with a case for recruiting pre-school teachers to kindergarten, as is the GNIST initiative for teachers.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to file a case for the winding-up of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and for the amendment of the Equality Act so that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, are given the task of enforcing the key provisions of the Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2824	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-22, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish a grant scheme for voluntary activities, the aim of which is to stimulate activities for children and young people’. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for assessing the future functioning of national cultural institutions, with a view to further improving their access to the public, market alignment, efficiency, etc.’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a binding maintenance plan to national cultural institutions.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of state grants in the field of art.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the scheme of scholarships to artists.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to liquidate the guarantee income scheme.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use more than before the art already in its possession to decorate public buildings.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a reassessment of future operational plans for the Norwegian Opera & Ballet with a view to reducing the public contribution.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked by the government of the next year’s government budget to submit proposals on normal business collection procedures for the NRK licence.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination and phasing-out of the television licence system.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the fragmentation and sale of the NRK in such a way as to achieve effective competition and achieve cultural policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to allow foreign and other gambling companies to establish themselves in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2898	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the opening of pilot projects where municipalities can take full responsibility for the child protection service.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2915	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a new parental leave scheme that equates mother’s and father’s rights and guarantees the right of each family to determine the distribution of the leave.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2930	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the added value scheme for digital material used in the libraries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2945	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the system of child protection supervision is strengthened and that the children receive the supervision they require.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e2960	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a grant scheme for operas directed by choirs and orchestras, preferably added ‘Opera Norway’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e5777	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e8233	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e8709	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to establish a statutory system for the continuous admission of kindergartens in Norway. The entitlement to kindergarten shall be exercised at the earliest from the time when the child reaches the age of one – 1 – year, or from the end of the parental leave if prolonged.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e8827	During the debate Linda C. Hofstad Helleland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones315Freedom purposes79Various volunteering purposes15 000 000 Inhibition will be proposed in the context of the treatment of Prop. 45 S New balancing of the State budget in 2011.’ [[2011-2012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9317	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party 4–6, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to take the initiative to develop a new professional choir with institutional prerequisites for stable artistic activities in line with the professional orchestras.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the enhanced development of competence in choral and vocal ensembles by increasing efforts on adult education funds to where channelled through study associations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish an establishment aid scheme for cows.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the export of performing choral music to be given a natural place in the international cultural effort.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for strength and further development of mechanisms to increase the breadth of activity in choirs and vocal ensembles, including the Norwegian Cultural Council’s system of means of activity for choirs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a support scheme for conductors to contribute to the development of competences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9430	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-17, by Mr Solvik Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 18 from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 19 by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 20, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 21, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 is authorised under: 1432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Capital depositsNorwegian cultural memory fund200 000 0002410 State loan fund for education90Increased loans and interest payable, estimate allocation19 961 167 0002425Climate investment91Investment capital500 000 0002426SIVA SF95Capital of equity150 000 0005999State loan resources90Loans-53 247 172 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9557	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 is authorised under: Chapter.PostFormålKroner1432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Capital depositsNorsk cultural memory fund200 000 0002412The Housebank90Payment of loans18 449 000 0005312The Housebank90Deduction9 728 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9637	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 is authorised under: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroners1825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Capital deposits5000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9687	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2012 is authorised under: Cap.PostFormålKroner1432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Capital depositsNorwegian cultural memory fund100 000 0001833CO2 management95Capital deposits CLIMIT1 000 000 000 0002421Innovation Norway91Loans to seed capital funds500 000 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e9772	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the tax legislation, including the guidelines of Lingnings-ABC and its practice by tax authorities with a view to simplifying ‘small rules’, such as the reporting of mobile services, where private use of service numbers now needs to be reported for specific taxation outside the template rules for mobile and Internet services. [[as information number]] The review shall aim at facilitating the management of the regulatory framework for taxpayers, both employees and traders. The review shall aim at making the simplifications effective from 2013 onwards.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on how the resources of customs authorities can be better used to stop organised crime and organised smuggling at the border.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to review the limits and restrictions on entry in the event of border crossing with a view to reducing unnecessary restrictions, harmonising with neighbouring countries and simplifying the legislation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government asks the Government to increase the amount of simplified customs treatment from NOK 1000 to NOK 5000.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg proceedings for a reduction in the customs regime and unnecessary red tape in relation to goods entering Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests access to the use of blue light by customs.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the FSA’s loan guidelines are not tightened up and maintained at 90 p.m. share of equity in the purchase of a dwelling.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case in which the principle of accruals is applied in the State budget and in the State accounts, so as to distinguish between costs and investments, and to operate with a balance sheet.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a government budgeting system in which the Storting may adopt the budget items for several years at a time’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a professionally based sample to assess how the dynamic effects of changes in taxes on labour and wealth can be better incorporated into the government budget, so that best practice can be found on this which is realistic and based on best estimates. The committee shall look at both national and international experience. The conclusions are presented to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget. The work must also be carried out with a view to using the results in multiannual budgeting.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess other areas of the government budget where it is appropriate to adjust the figures to take account of dynamic effects, such as in road investment, hospital treatment, measures promoting the supply of work, or other changes that may have a positive impact on the Norwegian economy and income or cost savings for the country.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the calculation rates and parameters used by public authorities for infrastructure investments with a view to making them as realistic as possible.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to set up a working group to review the rules on travel billing for the purpose of simplification.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the inclusion of toll costs, heavy-duty tyres and ferry costs in the template rules for a company car covered by the employer.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The Government is asked to make proposals to amend the legislation so that travellers do not have to take out transit baggage for re-checking on further domestic voyages. Hold baggage must be able to be handled/checked without necessarily physical connection between passenger and hold baggage.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2012 is authorised under: 286Research fund95 Fund capital - Fund for research and innovation Sokornfonds90 Capital contributions600 0000001321 Veifonds95 Capital contributions300 000 0000001322 Railway funds95 Capital contributions100 000 0000001323 Storbyfonds95 Capital contributions100 000 0000001324 Riksvei SF95 Capital contributions11 600 000 0001325 Railway SF95 Capital contributions3 400 000 000 0002410 State loan fund for education90Increased loans and interest payments153 251 0004533Completed90 Discontinued common people's fund80 000 000 0004540National minorities90 Discontinued Romani people's fund88 000 0005999State loans90Loans563 122 479 000» [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e10045	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a professionally based sample to assess the short- and long-term dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. The committee shall look at both national and international experience. The conclusions shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2013 State Budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e13168	With regard to the matters that now follow, as from case No. 9 even case No. 17, they're all second time dealing with the law. Since there are no comments on any of the legislative acts, the President suggests that we treat them together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comments on any of the legislative acts. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-15.ana.ud2448e13184	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled
