ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e26	The representatives of Tove Linnea Brandvik, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Hadia Tajik, Michael Tetzschner, Håkon Haugli, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Line Henriette Heimdal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East Agder County: Åshild Karoline Haugland For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen and Anita Orlund For Uppland County: Kristine Kvam For Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Khalid Mahmood For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland For the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Anette Stegewedet Norberg For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold For Eastfold County: Erlend Wiborg From the representatives Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, there are applications for leave from 19 October to 25 October, both in order to take part as observers to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the elections in Tunisia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the goods, for Telemark County Odin Adelsten Bohmann, and for South Trondelag County Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e115	Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e120	I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal on behalf of Siv Jensen, Solvency Horne, Åse Michaelsen and myself on measures to ensure the rapid reconstruction of the breast after cancer surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e125	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e128	I am delighted to make proposals from the representatives of the Magnificent Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself on a statutory, fully-fledged net pay system for seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e133	The representative, Mr Träldal, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e136	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to lift the ban on division in the law of the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e153	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Anniken Huitfeldt, Lars Peder Breck and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e160	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs a question. We have recently looked up both in the media and elsewhere to show that the Rescue Company appears to have to add two lifeguards to the dock next year in order to defend the economy that the company has available to operate this kind of coastal preparedness. Rescue skates are a very important foundation for what is happening along the coast and for the preparedness and security on which you are totally dependent in the waters in which you operate. We have seen a number of situations in which rescuers have arrived very quickly and rescued very many people, and for the coastal population and those who travel along the coast, the efforts of the rescuers are of an invaluable nature. In the past, the Rescue Company has been financed by both voluntary efforts, lottery, slot machines, which have been provided with a compensation scheme – which does not fully compensate for the expenditure, of course – and in addition, grants have been made to the State budget. Overall, these appropriations are no longer able to maintain efforts along the coast. When the fast route stood in fire outside Ålesund, it was among other things. a life-shoe which helped to get it into the berth. I ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: Will the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs ensure that the Rescue Company is fully financed in addition to what is in the State budget to ensure coastal preparedness next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e173	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Harald T. Nesvik that the Rescue Company is doing a great and important job for us on the coast, and as a coastal resident I know to appreciate it very much. It is also an objective of the government that our framework grant should assist the company's efforts in the action-oriented rescue services and the accident prevention work they do. For the financial year 2012, we have made a proposal to continue appropriations at the same level as this year. That grant is in addition to the grant granted over the budget of the Ministry of Culture, since it compensates for the loss of the revenue they had through the slot machine business. For 2010 it amounted to 133 million. kr. Then a ask question about defending that the revenue that fell away is to be fully compensated by the state. I think it's demanding to be on, all the time they were on a very high level. I suggest that we continue appropriations on my budget at the same level as this year, and on the basis that the rescue company actually has 700 million. kr on book. So in a situation where it was important for me to contribute to a tight budget, I found that it was appropriate and proper this year. In addition, the Coastal Works and the Rescue Company have concluded an agreement to purchase other services, which I hope can also contribute to the income development of the Rescue Company.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e182	I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though it was not at all helpful, but more an explanation, or an explanation. Now we know, in fact, that even this year, the Rescue Company must spend several tens of millions of dollars of savings to help the people along the coast with the preparedness they have. This cannot continue over time. I also saw that the Council of State on TV 2 last night said that despite the addition of two lifeguards to the berth, the standby would not be weakened. I have read the government's budget relatively in-depth on this point, and I have the following questions to the Council of State: What strengthening of the Coast Guard or the rescue helicopter service has been done to strengthen that kind of preparedness? Because that's what the state council said about the media yesterday, that readiness wasn't weakened by adding two skates to the dock. I believe that the entire population along the coast disagrees with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e191	As I said in my first answer, I propose to continue the allocation also next year at the same level as this year. In addition, as the representative points out, we have a further preparedness. We have the Coast Guard doing a good job. There is a proposal of 993.2 million. kr. Now there are a number of different purposes to the immediate and internal coastal preparedness, but still they have 14 vessels. Many of them are also coastal. Then we have the rescue helicopter service, where we have 12 Sea King helicopters that are also coastal. That's where we have 24 hours' crew, which is also being carried on. My point is that when we take account of the price rise and continue at the same level, it's a little hard to understand that you have to step down the business, when you're really going on at the same level. That's my reason, when you also know that the rescue company, after all, has 700 million. kr on book.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e198	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e201	I think it's a little special that the Council of State doesn't understand that you have to step down when you spend more money than what you get from the state, that you have to go on your reserves. That's what the Rescue Company is doing, and it's limited how long you can actually go beyond your reserves before it doesn't go any further. That is a consequence of the fact that the rescue company now wants to cut with two boats because you do not get that allocation from the state that they need. I think it is good that the Council of State says that she agrees that the rescue company is very important, but then there must be a short cut in a place, when you think it is so important and so make sure that you cannot continue the preparedness that is today, with the proposal that is now in place. The rescue company is also a very important part of oil protection along the coast, and they save many ships to avoid disaster along our coast. I hope that the Council of State will actually go back and look at the challenges facing the Rescue Company, and ensure that additional appropriations are brought back so that we can ensure at least as good preparedness as we have – and not a reduced preparedness – along our coast. This was also said in the Common Era, that is, to strengthen preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e212	The fact that the rescue company spends more money than they get from the state is, of course, to the extent that they choose. It is they who are responsible for the operation and activity that they have. They have a width of their activity that we must be able to say goes beyond what we contribute through the grant from the state. It is of course a non-profit organisation that is responsible for its operations. We contribute a framework grant. It is also right, as the representative pointed out, that they also contribute to oil protection. I said in my first answer that there was an agreement between the Coast Guard and the Rescue Company, where you look at expanding that activity, and of course you pay for the service that is given in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e219	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e222	The Council of State is responsible for security along the coast. What I hear now is disturbing. For several years, the right has prioritised the Rescue Company with increased funds. So, as I said earlier, the lifeguard was in place after 20 minutes with a draw when the fast-track ship «Nordly Light» reported a fire – the accident we had earlier this year. The coastal works had an agreement with ‘BB Ocean’ located in Ålesund, which was not called. It is then worrying that it is the will to be provided by the response along the coast of Norway, where responsibility lies with the Council of State. Indeed, the Council of State does not see the value of the provision of adequate resources for volunteering and the Rescue Company, so that they can certainly be in place in the order of the safety of the population along the coast and at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e230	I can assure the representative that I really see the importance of volunteering. I have grown up myself with a local rescue unit and a grandmother who sat and worked and contributed to it. I appreciate that inconceivably. What is the question, then, is how much the State will contribute to the total funding of the Rescue Company. Of course, we look at the areas in which they contribute, in relation to what I am responsible for, that is, the total rescue service. It consists – in addition to the Rescue Company – of the Coast Guard and the rescue helicopters. Then it is at any time the Main Rescue Center that contacts the various actors to assist whether there are ships in distress or during search operations. In addition, they may also be in contact with the helicopter service we have along the coast associated with the oil companies, but which is not part of the total state preparedness. Of course, I will continue to agree to grant money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e239	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e242	The rescue company is making an invaluable effort. When we know just how important it is that there is voluntary effort in the Rescue Company, we are doing well to ensure that the State actually has a gold agreement with the Rescue Company. But now the state will not be in and continue that agreement. So in reality, there's a real decline in the promises from the state of the Rescue Company. When the state actually cuts, this will result in a loss of income that is owed voluntarily, the effort, and so we see that the rescue company is now forced to cut with two tugs. Is it that the Council of State has finally decided not to look at this? Doesn't she see that this has been a good idea, a good cooperation? And won't the Council of State continue it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e249	There are two things that have to be noted. It was said that it was cut in tugs. It's the rescue company that says they're going to add two to the berth. We have a state tug-boat stand with three vessels in the north, two in the west and tug-boat stand in the south, which is in addition to what I mentioned earlier. So it's really not cut. I suggest that we adjust prices, that we continue at the same level to the next year as this year, given that I am also concerned about jobs on the coast, and contribute to a tight budget with the backstop that the rescue company has 700 million. kr on book. Of course, they can't eat that for all eternity – I see that too. But I have said that I would rather sit down and discuss with the Rescue Company to look forward and, of course, to avoid them using all that capital. But this year my proposal to the Stortinget is that we continue, not kittens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e256	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e259	I have a question to the Council of State Breck. In a speech on the world's food day yesterday, he called for an increase in production to maintain our self-sufficiency in Norway. It's not hard to agree with that. Governments also know that this means increasing investment in Norwegian agriculture in order to achieve it. There is a pessimism about the future of Norwegian agriculture. At least it expresses the industry, at the latest in yesterday's consultation of the nutrition committee. They call for measures to facilitate investment. Several solutions have been proposed to the right. We have proposed investment funds for individual enterprises. We have proposed increased depreciation, and not least reductions in property taxes, which would increase investment in agriculture by many, many billions over a decade, and that is what agriculture wants. I would like to know if the Council of State shares our view that we need to increase the ability to invest, and that tax measures are one of the most important incentives we can give to get to this in a fast way. So I would like to say that the question is this: does the Council of State, Mr Brok, share the right view that tax measures can create the investment incentive and the increased optimism that Norwegian agriculture now needs? At least they're expressing it to themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e270	It is right that, in connection with the world's food day, I stressed that every country in the world needs to increase its production. We're in a situation where a lot of people are starving. That's about. One billion people in the world who are starving, and we are not strengthening the global supply of food without all countries producing food for their own people, and we are also exploiting the trading systems to ensure that production can be distributed to where it is needed. With regard to the investment needs in Norwegian agriculture, as the fleet asks about here, I will be the first to stress the same thing as the fleet representative has pointed out, that we need to increase investment in Norwegian agricultural food production. We need to increase investment especially in primary production. It comes of course because we have an inflated need, given that we had a large investment wave at the end of the 1970s/beginning of the 1980s, and that it is not covered by regular developments. So the representative asked the fleet about tax could be a measure there. Let me just point out that the government in this year's draft budget has proposed to change the depreciation rates. It has a total proceeds effect of about 300 million. kr, a significant improvement for those investing in Norwegian food production. In addition, we have also proposed removing the food production fee. The cost of food production is important in the sense that it can ensure the prices of the farmer, reduce costs throughout the value chain and not least reduce the costs of those who further process the food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e279	It was nice that the Council of State came into the budget, because I was going to talk a little more about it with him. It is quite right that there are some smaller tax measures in the budget, but they are relatively puzzled, and the industry has said it needs 18 billion. DKK over 10 years. The Council of State Breck has come, is far, far away from it. But the important thing and the good thing about what the Council of State comes into the budget is that I believe that he really agrees with what many of his colleagues in the government do not agree with, namely that tax is a measure that increases the ability to invest, that gives more freedom of action and increased liquidity for industry, and as such is a good and proper measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e286	I very much disagree that it is a puzzled suggestion. Changes in the food value chain of 630 million are proposed. kr. reducing costs to industry. The cost of primary producers, for livestock builders, is actually reduced by 300 million. kr, with an increasing effect thereafter. It is significant and will generate increased demand for investment funds. It is a complement to the fact that we also have investment grant schemes under the agricultural agreement, which are used in full. Then I would like to say that it is a strange question from the representative fleet. It should almost be believed that the rest of the government has been in a vacuum, or that the Minister of Agriculture has been in a vacuum, when it can be claimed that the government does not agree with the proposal put forward by the Minister of Agriculture. It is clear that a government is presenting the budget, and there is, of course, an overall government behind it. I'm very, very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e293	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e296	Agriculture is not just land, it is also forest. Now we are in the middle of the consultation round for the state budget, and we are getting quite clear signals from the forest industry. It is a profitable, district-oriented value chain that goes from raw materials to international markets. In the context of climate change, Norway has a significantly lower challenge than we have previously believed, if we count on the bonds in forests. So actively driven forests are also important in climate context. At the same time, we are receiving signals that resources are under-utilised critically in Norway. There are obvious strategies to double the activity – if we compare with Sweden, it should triple. At the same time, the Council of State and the Government are putting forward a budget with two powerful tax incentives, and where forestry does not get anything. It can be said in many ways that farming is settled at the expense of forestry. Does the Council of State think that this is a policy to increase activity in Norwegian forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e304	I very much agree with the importance of the forest in Norwegian business. It is a complete value chain that is of great importance in the districts and creates significant export revenues. Fortunately, over the last few years after the financial crisis, we've had more activity in the forest again. We are excited about how it will turn out now, with the situation in Europe, but there has been a significant increase in yields in 2010 and early 2011, which generate increased revenues. I totally disagree with the representative, Gundersen, that we are not facilitating forestry. Every year I have been Minister of Agriculture and Food, we have increased the investment in forestry in the budgets. We have done the same this year. In connection with the social security fee – I guess that’s what Gundersen means here – we have increased the forest reserve by 10 million. kr. within the framework of the agricultural agreement. So the description Gundersen gives is very deficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e311	Torgeir Treldal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e314	Current agricultural legislation makes it difficult for operators to make their activities efficient and profitable. Examples include limitations on ceilings in production and co-operation. On several occasions, the Council of State has said that farmers are self-employed, but what self-employed people experience is rigid legislation that affects and limits the ability to do what self-employed people can do, for example. there are rules on quota ceilings for milk production and other things. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to facilitate the choice of an organisation that will allow self-employed agricultural workers to make the most of their business profitable, not be overrun by rigid legislation, and thus increase agricultural investment measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e323	It is important that the representative, Mr Tåldal, underlines this. The farmer is a self-employed person who makes independent choices within the framework of policies and public regulations. We have strict regulations in Norwegian agriculture, also because we want to ensure agriculture throughout the country. With regard to the issue of quota caps and part of the legislation we have, it's based on the fact that we have a limited market, we only produce for the domestic market. It is then important to avoid overproduction. The fact that we have restrictions on the ceiling on milk production is important, because in this way we ensure a balance in the market and avoid overproduction, which would be an accident for the Norwegian farmer. Similarly, it is also in the production of pigs and in other productions. So the legislation we have is important, and it also makes the farmer himself responsible by ensuring that you do not get overproduction. This is good for the market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e332	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e335	The theme of the Fleet in this round of questions is agricultural tax policy. The social security charge is increased from 7.3 pst. to 11.1 pst. for agricultural operators. This shall be compensated by an increase in the agricultural deduction. As a result, farmers with low incomes receive higher taxes because they do not benefit from the agricultural deduction in full. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for farmers with low incomes to receive higher taxes? Or, in another way, is this good agricultural policy to strengthen diversity and to strengthen smaller uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e342	I believe that the proposals on social security are good agricultural policy. Firstly, we guarantee pensions, and secondly, in these schemes we have compensated agriculture completely through the agricultural agreement. It happens at the total level, it's not at the detail level. This may lead to some distribution effects, as Andersen Eide, the representative, points out here. At the same time, it is also important that all self-employed farmers in agriculture are engaged in delivering results, obtain profits. We can't have a tax system that sponsors those who don't deliver profits and who don't exploit the possibilities that are here. I believe that the social security tax and the compensation for social security contributions under the agricultural agreement have been dealt with very well, and this is in agreement with the Norwegian Bondelag on that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e349	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e352	As the Left sees it, the Center Party has very good intentions in terms of small businesses and individual enterprises, but it seems as if this is getting a little away from the government they are currently in. The council itself was involved in tax in its reply to the Fleet and now to the last questioner. The website of the Centre Party contains the following excellent wording: «The public shall facilitate entrepreneurs through a tax system that honors those who invest in their own jobs.» However, we have seen very little of this in the six years that the Central Party has been in government. In yesterday's hearing in the Finance Committee, both Norskog and the Bondelag were very clear that there was a need for an improvement in the tax system. I believe these are industries to which the Minister of Agriculture listens carefully. My question is: has the Central Party of the Red-Green Government renounced its fiscal policy towards farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e364	We have different instruments that affect agriculture, which affect food production, and which help to ensure production throughout the country. Tax is one of the instruments. We have in this government's lifetime extended the agricultural deduction, which is important for farmers, and which provides a significant addition to income in reduced tax costs. And, as I mentioned recently, in the draft budget, we have put forward proposals to change the depreciation rates for livestock and other agricultural buildings, which contribute significantly to the improvement of the economy. So I believe that this government is delivering to agriculture and to food production. Through the total packages and instruments, we ensure agriculture throughout the country, we ensure an activity that creates food security and creates safe food, and enables Norwegian consumers to have good products in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e371	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e375	The question goes to the Minister of Culture. This afternoon, thousands of fires are going out and in the kiosk to cook coffee or hot sausages for the local sports team. Handball training, football matches, adult choir exercises, youth choir exercises, weekend tours, volleyball tournaments, e-mail answers, accounts must be kept. It's voluntary. Local communities live because people care. Voluntary activities are often referred to as the third sector. For the Christian People's Party, volunteering is the first sector. Every year, the government earns a large amount of money from the fires through VAT on volunteering. Before the 2009 elections, it was said by the red-green government that this matter was now resolved – it was promised to introduce a VAT compensation that would be escalated up to 1.2 billion. kr by 2014. Halfway up, the promise of escalation is broken, and the promise of steady phase-in is broken, and volunteering is left and pays the price through poorer conditions, due to the lack of predictability and considerable uncertainty about the future framework conditions. The question to the Minister of Culture is: is it that the government's promises apply only when you have expansionary government budgets, or do they apply even when you have so-called neutral budgets? And can the Council of State guarantee that volunteering will get the funds you've been promised, with a VAT compensation of 1.2 billion. kr by 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e386	I fully agree with the Håbreuk's description of the important efforts of volunteering. But it should be done to say that volunteering comes out worse with the arrangement that the government has. There are probably few areas where we have increased transfers more than to volunteer. Voluntary teams and organisations have increased by 260 pst. since 2005. It's a formidable increase. Then we have said that we should step up the VAT compensation scheme as follows: ‘The Government has decided to introduce a new VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. The scheme shall enter into force on 1 January 2010 and shall be escalated by one billion kroner until 2014.’» That goal is at stake. But it doesn't say anywhere how much we're going to escalate this arrangement every year. So before accusing the government of a breach of promises, almost the representative has to show me where I should have promised that there will be 200 million in this state budget. kr in addition to voluntary activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e398	Now it's hard for us others to control the truth of what the Prime Minister is transmitting to the President of the United States over the phone, but in terms of the state's communication with another of our most important allies, namely the volunteer, we have actually responded to it in white. On 16 June 2009, Minister of Culture Trond Giske sent a letter to volunteer after the decision on the VAT compensation had been taken. It says the following: ‘The order is phased in evenly with the follow-up to the cultural promise and is to be administered in aggregate for the remainder of the 2010-2014 cultural promise’. The phase-in ‘even’ and the steps may not be interpreted in any other way than by stepping up each year. Can the Council of State guarantee that the promise will be fulfilled in 2014 and does the Minister of Culture recognise that there has been a breach of commitment to volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e408	We have committed no violation of the promise of volunteering. On the contrary, we have increased the framework conditions and made them much better for voluntary teams and organisations. That's the equivalent of the Cultural Promise. There we say that it should be a steady escalation against 1 pst. However, it is not given how large that escalation should be from year to year. The goal of volunteering is 1 billion. kr extra, stand by layers. Voluntary teams and organisations can expect a significant increase in their payments in December compared to last year, an increase of an average of 50 pst. for each organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e415	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e418	We have a lot of hard work to do in Norway. There is a lot of voluntary effort every day. But I wonder if I can be allowed to define the government's policy towards volunteering and towards Culture-Norway so that the government wants more of us to be audiences for cultural activities, and not even participate as active cultural activists with our voluntary efforts. We now see it with regard to the VAT compensation scheme, where it is not the steady escalation that has been announced. We look forward to the fact that there are longer queues in the cultural school sector, and we also see it related to the escalation plan in the field of belief training. My question to the Council of State is: Yes, 1 billion. kr related to the VAT compensation scheme, but how is she going to achieve this when it is a neutral budget? What about the 2014 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e423	What's going on in the 2014 budget will be presented next year by the government, but the goal remains, and it should be said that this government prioritises being an audience rather than being a participant. After all, there is no scheme for the cultural budget that has increased more than the transfers to voluntary organisations. An increase of 260 pst. is much, much more than the important cultural institutions that the National Theatre, the Hålogaland Theatre and the symphony orchestras have received. So the whole cultural life has been given an increase through the Cultural Promise, but those that have been given the greatest increase are the voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e428	Although Stortinget was to receive the government budget proposal for 2014 as early as next year, it will probably not be dealt with before the fall of 2013! Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e433	I must really say that I am surprised at the attitude that the Minister of Culture takes in this Chamber on this topic, which is so important. It boasts that volunteering is now getting such a big increase, at 260 p.m., but it was just going to be missing. So if we remember in history, volunteering was promised this VAT compensation, and especially by the government parties, which went out in the election campaign in 2005 and said that the volunteer would get full VAT compensation. So we saw that it was a stepping-up plan, until 2014, they were going to get the 1.2 billion. kr. Yes, we see the increase in the year's budget, 18.5 million. I'll give them $50. Then the council says she hasn't broken a promise, and I can agree with her, because there are two state budgets coming. But when we know that for this government a tight budget is almost more important than saving lives, it's timely that the opposition gets to ask if it really comes to 600 million. kr in the next two years. That is why my question is: can the Council of State guarantee that the escalation plan will be followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e438	I say this is the government's goal, and we're going to escalate the appropriations for volunteering. To say that we are not willing to save lives then – well, I have to say that I think is to take a little hard on. But I believe that we have made a significant effort to strengthen voluntary action, both through the VAT compensation scheme and through the grassroots share, which provides voluntary teams and organisations with a significant amount, a system that the opposition opposed. So we will continue to strengthen the conditions of the voluntary sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e443	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e447	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Culture. I think the representative, Håbrek, had a great entrance by describing all the sausage sellers and the bowlers. I would like to draw attention to that group of Håbreek not mentioned, the group most difficult for any election committee to occupy when the board is going to set up the annual meeting, and it is accountants – the accountant who is immersed in forms to deal with the VAT code, the accountant who is to report to the Register of Volunteers, who is to keep track of all the formalities needed to recover the VAT refund or other support schemes in place. And there we come to the Voluntary Register, which was supposed to be set up easily, which would include all state arrangements, which would make the accountant's everyday life a little bit easier. We haven't seen much of that follow-up, which I've been able to see. Is this something that the Minister of Culture would like to speed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e454	I am concerned that voluntary sector schemes should be simplified. That is why we have set in motion cooperation between the National Council for Children's and Youth Organizations of Norway and the Ministry of Culture to look at how we can simplify a number of schemes. We are now very pleased with that cooperation, and it may be natural to look at how we can extend it to other volunteer teams and organisations. But one thing is certain, that if the Right got through to its full VAT refund scheme, and non-governmental organisations had to keep the same VAT accounts as private companies, then it would be very difficult to recruit accountants to volunteer teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e459	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e462	I hope that the description of coffee makers and Olemic Thommessen's description of accountants – or throwaways, as it's called in the Left – is a good description of challenges, and I understand that the Council of State needs to set down samples to cut the red tape she has brought to the organisations. But basically, this is about a government that has little understanding of what volunteering is. Rigmor Aasrud was here too soon back, and in a round of questions she spoke to me about non-governmental organisations as ‘service providers’ to the public. When I asked about these service providers of the public, also called non-governmental organisations, perhaps had something more to do with them than just being a service provider, she said: Yes, they had a clear competitive advantage when it came to bidding. Is this not about a government with little understanding of volunteering, little understanding of what voluntary organisations contribute, and little understanding of the self-value of this third sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e469	Now the representative from the Left has so little to risk that she chooses to twist and twist what the Minister of Renewal says. Because what she's talking about are voluntary teams like service providers, like... those who run a nursing home. But what I'm talking about today is about those who do voluntary, unpaid work, like sports organisations, like the cortical movement, like others, because they've got a significantly better framework in recent years. It shows a government that, despite tight budgets, prioritises volunteering. There is no government at all that has made things better — or has made greater progress in terms of voluntary teams and organisations — than we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e474	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e477	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. There is a cross-political agreement to move transport from sea to land. It requires action. The whole of Coast Norway has been asking for years for the construction of the City Ship Tunnel. Transport users want safe transport. Carriers point out that the City Ship Tunnel can make sailing past the troubled and dangerous State Sea both predictable and secure. After 17 investigations, where the Coast Guard has first advised off, so recommended, and then again out of the council building, is now a eighteenth investigation announced, allegedly because some are afraid that the seafarers who are operating our coast will not hit the tunnel opening. Norwegian seafarers are perfectly safe. I'm absolutely sure they'll hit the opening. There is no hokuspocus in this project, either in terms of construction or use, on the contrary: the project can be used for maritime transport along the coast. A new investigation appears to be another postponement, in fact, as an additional attempt to humiliate the entire project. The question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to ensure the rapid construction of the City Tunnel and to prevent more and unnecessary postponements?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e490	As the representative points out, a large number of investigations can be summarised. It's one, to put it mildly, broad spectrum of those investigations. What is important to me is what has been done by the state, and from the state level a preliminary project was developed in 2001, which was through quality assurance in 2003. It was known as ‘the small tunnel alternative’. Then came the proposal from the rapporteurs, among others. in Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal to make this hole bigger – that is, a larger tunnel that would also take the Hurtigruten. It led to the Coastal Agency’s 2007 investigation, which came in a revised version from the 2010/2011 turn of the year. The background to that audit was the requirements of the external quality assurance. So when 17 investigations are counted, there are strictly only two state-owned investigations that are going through the project as a whole. Then there is a question whether the Minister for Fisheries does not believe that the boatmen hit this hole. It is not at all a question of the knowledge of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Navigation of the coast, but on the contrary a question of quality assurance, which is now being examined by the Coastal Office. The quality assurance bodies therefore ask whether the use of the tunnel under poor weather conditions is sufficiently well established. That is why the Coastal Administration has been asked to re-examine it. What they specifically ask in the investigations carried out is at the limits of waves, current and visibility in the area, which are so difficult that the tunnel may have to be closed for some or all vessels under certain conditions. I have a great understanding that the quality assurance will have it clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e499	Thanks for the answer. I've wanted you to be able to take on investigations from the government as well, which are actually done by others. 25 years ago, the company behind the City Ship Tunnel NIVA and Sintef, two recognised organisations in Norway on the research side, were given the opportunity to assess the impact of current and seabeds. Measurements were made throughout the winter. It was extreme weather. It was a full storm from the north and a full storm from the south. The conclusion was clear: neither current nor seabed would cause any problems for the use of the ship's tunnel. Doesn't the Coastal Department and the Coastal Department know this investigation? Why is this to be re-examined? What competence is better than that of NIVA and SINTEF, the so-called quality assurance providers now involved in securing the project? We already know this trick, that you set quality insurers without competence to stop large projects – I refer here to U-864.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e508	I can assure the representative of Sortevik that we have a good overview of all the investigations that have been carried out. I could have read them all up, I have the list with me. I'm not going to do that. I am also aware of the safety analysis carried out by SINTEF and Norse Veritas in 1994. There is an innumerable number of documents that are clearly available, both for the Coastal Works and for anyone who wants to go through it. We have adopted a principle and a system of quality assurance. As the responsible state council, I am very pleased that we have quality insurers who actually ask relevant questions. What's important to me is the time span, and that's what everybody's concerned about: Do we want to keep the timeline that's set? And the answer to that is yes. I assume that I will have delivered the quality assurance early next year, so that we can still keep what has been said in the national transport plan on progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e515	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e519	With that attitude, and not least the kind of questions and investigations we've been shown here, it's not very strange that the consultant's expenses go into the weather. I can only show you the last concept of the Coastal Works, which is so thick. That's just the last one in a row of 17 pieces. You may well just have to ask questions about the competence of the consultancy firm or the agency to do that quality assurance. I have a specific question to the Council of State: Is this quality assurance available? And will it immediately, when it is available, be published, and not held back or washed in the department? That's question 1. Question 2: If the quality assurance company Holte Consulting does not agree, or needs more answers, does the Council of State at least agree and ensure that the vessels will actually hit the tunnel opening?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e528	The quality assurance has not been completed, as a new investigation related to the use of the tunnel has been asked in extra bad weather. Once the report is handed over to me, it will be published, like everything else in this case. The study is available on the Coastal Authority’s website. Everything that's done before will of course be done here. I see that it may be a little difficult to access, but it's public. It's important for me to stress. Then those who have time, read through and go through all the details – and to some extent also the 16-17 investigations that have been done before. As for the question of whether the Council of State agrees on technical matters relating to the use of the tunnel: I think I shall be honest and say that my knowledge of sailing and the taking of a tunnel hole is probably not what is given weight when this decision is taken. It gets the experts to take care of it, and I'm taking it with me as a very important decision-making base.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e535	It was certainly reassuring – before we move on to the next follow-up question, from the representative Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e538	I think the Council of State also hears that this is a little bit on the waving front. This can be compared to the fact that trucks hit a tunnel hole on the road in bad weather and on smooth driving. It's true that along our entire coast there's ferry hire, and the ferries actually find out about these ferries many times a day, the whole year – no matter what the weather. There is a ship simulator at the University of Ålesund where you sail from the Kjødepollen and enter through the tunnel. We've been on that for ourselves in the Transport Committee. Modern vessels have towers and positioning systems that allow them to lie on the meters out in the North Sea in storm and storm. Now, isn't this about the fact that you're on the waving front, yes, completely in the parody? Can't the Council of State just as well say that this project she won't realize, even after 17 investigations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e545	Let me first say two words about the quality assurances. It is a company that is qualified by the Ministry of Finance to do this type of job, and I have the greatest confidence that once the Ministry of Finance has approved something, it is absolutely to be trusted. In terms of comparison with road tunnels and if it's easier to hit them than a tunnel opening at sea – well, well: I don't travel very much at sea, but I have a lot of travel, and I don't want to say that that comparison is very good, in the sense that in addition to that it can be dark and poor in sight, there are quite moving grounds. The roads are, after all, quite quiet. One drops the factor with waves and current. I haven't been more at sea than that I might think it might be a bit demanding even if you're not going into a tunnel. But of course it's about the Council's lack of seafarers. I'm going to take that very seriously. Then there is no doubt that the vessels today are modern and have technical equipment. But again, here are the quality assurances that have to ask questions. Of course, I should like to say that they are being answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e554	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e557	I have heard the Council of State's response on the concern about the competence of the skippers and the ability to hit the tunnel opening. I will lay it down, but I am tempted to quote the savior Magne Setren from Måløy: "It is not possible to tell fairy tales to people who have been at sea for all their days. This is training.» A year ago, the concern was different. Then it was at City: it was too fine, the waves were too low, and questions were asked about the need for the ship's tunnel despite the clear advice of climate scientists for the future. My question is whether there is no end to bad arguments and concerns, which the coastal population is shaking their heads and laughing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e569	The fact that the shipowners of the rescue company find this easy, I am very happy and feel completely secure, because they are among the very best skippers we have. If they are a general measure of the knowledge of those who travel on the coast, it can be difficult to say. In any case, the quality assurance system has asked questions about the use of this tunnel in the event of extra bad weather. So I'm not the government council that's asked the question. That's what these companies have done. They're asking if it's well established. We'll get an answer to that. I expect to receive the report from the quality assurance companies in January and will continue to keep the timeline in line with what has been said in the national transport plan. I have never asked questions about the need for a tunnel in the State Sea. Everyone knows that the Stad Sea is a demanding sea. It has not become any less demanding, but the boats have become of better quality and have better equipment. We will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with this case when we have obtained the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e576	This leads us to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e579	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. First of all, I would like to assure the Minister of Culture that the right-wing arrangements for the refund scheme may not necessarily mean changes in the way you can obtain the refund. At least it has to be striving. Otherwise, I have noticed that the Minister of Culture refers to increased appropriations for the field of volunteering. I agree with that. But I would like to point out at the beginning of this question that it is natural to see the increased appropriations in the light of the fact that we have had legislation relating to games, which has also taken revenue away from parts of the volunteer. That's where I want to now, because the development in Norwegian Typing -- the result of what we get out of the tipping tools -- is disturbing reading. We see that the revenue goes down, the reserves are used up, and we see that despite the restrictions, there is an increase in online gambling against the rest of the world, that is, game revenue is channelled out. In the newspapers I have read that the Red Cross has estimated an income decrease of 16.2 million. kr. The rescue company has been a topic in this questionnaire. There are important bodies that lose income and also claim that this is a breach of promises in relation to what we were all involved in here in the United Kingdom in 2003, when the new game rules were adopted. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State feels comfortable with the development of new games that take place in Norwegian Typing, whether it is not time to consider giving them a more liberal framework for developing online games, to have a game concept for games that is timely and that could strengthen the income base of the businesses we have now talked about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e590	I thank you for the question. It was quite clear that the representative and I are not going to discuss meeting a tunnel by boat. At Lillehammer and at Jessheim, we don't know much about that kind of thing. But as the representative is inside, I am also concerned about Norwegian Typing and how they channel the profits for very important purposes. We've seen that people play less, and that they play quite a lot on foreign online games -- three to four billion. kr. Therefore, it has been important for us in the context of a responsible gaming policy to offer games that do not contribute to gambling dependence. That's why we're very restrictive about what new games we're allowing, but it has to be a game that makes it attractive to play in Norwegian Typing's game. This is why Norwegian Typing is now working, among other things. with the introduction of Euro Jackpot in cooperation with several other European countries, and they also work with other types of network games that are not intended to lead to addiction but, on the contrary, to channel the desire to play into responsible games.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e598	That's right. We also had this debate when we discussed the payment restrictions that we have on the rest of the world. What we see is enough that some of the predictions that the Technology Council at that time gave, that this would not be as water-tight as we hoped, have actually come true. We also see that the limits set for Norwegian Typing online games – of the type of online games that are the temptation abroad, i.e. online poker and the type of games – are not very good. In game policy, there is a constant point of balance between finding games that appeal enough to prevent people from travelling abroad, while at the same time providing you with soundness of mind. There must be a basis for, as we see the development in terms of game restrictions abroad, to open up a wider range of games within Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e605	Yes, we want to offer several types of games within Norwegian Typing, and that's also how Norwegian Typing is now working with several non-governmental organisations to create a new game for them. But what's important is we see that people don't play as much as before. This will update the need for a change in the key. Then there are some parts on the Storting that are for the change in the key, among other things. The Workers' Party and the Right, but that's what we're going to get back to when we're dealing with the sports message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e612	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e615	My follow-up question goes to Minister for Fisheries and Coast Lisbeth Berg-Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e620	Now I'm excited.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e625	Earlier today, we have talked about the Rescue Company and the voluntary effort they are making, and their funding base, which is most important part of the issue that is now being addressed. They save lives along the coast. They also provide an important first line service in the field of oil protection. So this is, to the most extent, a voluntary effort that we need to know to take good care of. This is financed mainly by local efforts, e.g.: children/women holding bazaars and fairs and getting money for the business. So you've been saving up a fund of 700 million. kr, which they must of course dispose of themselves. Has the Council of State considered whether this would have been financed by the State budget as an alternative – what would this cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e632	So the main question was tipping, and follow-up questions should be related to the main question. To the extent that the Council of State can find such a connection, of course, she should be given the opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e635	I'm not going to claim that I'm an expert on Norwegian Typing and their do-it-yourself, but what I know is that through the compensation scheme, after the withdrawal of slot machine revenues, the Rescue Company also gets some compensation – not all, because the revenues were very large. That might also have been one of the reasons why it was banned. People played from farm and land. Then we see that the contribution over it again, of course, depends on the Norwegian people's game opportunities and tipping. With regard to the issue being raised, I have not at all discussed whether it is appropriate for the State to take over the total funding of the Rescue Company. I am very attached to the fact that we have a non-profit sector, voluntary organization, that contributes in its entirety. What I said in that area on the main question is that we fund and provide grants for part of the activities of the Rescue Company. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e640	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e643	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Culture. We know that volunteering contributes to important societal tasks that the public cannot or will not be able to take over. Voluntaryness is glued in Norwegian society. So we know that they don't get fully compensated for VAT. They only get an increase next year of 18.5 million. kr, and it looks scary to see if you can reach the goal of 1.2 billion. kr in 2014. In addition, we see that the government in the budget that has been put forward is expecting people to tip less, so that the distribution of key funds is also reduced. These are revenues on which volunteering is heavily dependent, and we are concerned by the opposition's prospects of volunteering in the country. Volunteering saves lives. This concerns the Red Cross, the Air ambulance and the rescue service. It's not just the cultural institutions. So my question to the Council of State is, how can the Council of State guarantee that the income of volunteering will be secured in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e654	We have increased the framework, improved the conditions and made it much better for the volunteer organisations in recent years. There are few areas where the government is betting more. The volunteer organisations have applied for 1.2 billion. kr in VAT compensation. We're going to step up the order to the corresponding amount. In the case of the game profit for Norsk Tipping, we relate to how much it's been played for so far this year. When we presented the state budget, we expected the surplus to be 3.2 billion. kr. However, it may now seem that the game profit is getting slightly higher, given that people have played something more recently. We've been dealing with what's predicted from Norwegian Typing. But one thing is certain: if the Progress Party had made a significant impact on its game policy and opened up to many foreign online games, the profits on sport, on voluntary teams and organisations would have been significantly reduced, as a result of the abolition of the gambling monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e664	Øyvind Hope - to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e667	Someone's tipping at United and Liverpool. Then someone's trying to hit a ship's tunnel. Some will try to spell out government policy towards volunteering and plan their budgets for years to come. The question raised by the representative Thommess illustrates in a good way how many uncertainty factors volunteering has to deal with when planning the activity in the future and how much uncertainty there is about the revenue. The more disappointing it is that the Minister of Culture, in his reply earlier today, used increased appropriations for volunteering as an argument for jumping from promises that have been given in white before the 2009 elections. My question to the Minister of Culture will be: Give the developments we see, including in game policy, how will the Minister of Culture contribute to increased predictability for the voluntary organisations in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e676	We want to give the volunteer more predictability by looking at simplification projects and by wanting to step up the VAT compensation system. If the representative believes that we are breaking the promise in black and white, I assume at least that you can show in black and white the sentences in which the government has undertaken to increase the increase in the VAT compensation by 200 million. kr. There are no such promises. In line with the rest of the Cultural Promise, we're going to contribute to a steady escalation, both for cultural life in general and for volunteering. We will continue to do that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e681	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e693	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli and Bent Höie, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Care, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e708	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘There are many examples of a lack of information in the tax declaration that the tax haven has been readily available, such as: share gains are charged to 30 pst. additional taxes. In such cases, where it is obvious that taxpayers do not fail to disclose in order to avoid taxes, but of inexperience or misunderstanding, greater care must be exercised by the tax administration following the amendment of the law. If you do not want to violate before give 15 pst. additional tax, now give 30 pst. Will the Council of State ensure that such practices do not evolve?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e722	It is such that taxpayers are obliged to disclose all relevant information about the tax return. It is also the case that additional taxes are levied when taxpayers provide incorrect or incomplete information. The rate for ordinary additional taxes is 30 p.m. Then new rules on additional taxes were introduced in 2010. Under those rules, additional tax is no longer permitted at a reduced rate of 15 pst. Taxes may be exempted from additional taxes when his or her relationship must be considered as acquitted because of sickness, old age, inexperience or other cause. Under the new rules, it is less likely to exempt taxable persons from additional tax. Many of those who previously got 15 pst. additional taxes, in accordance with the new rules, are totally exempt from additional taxes. In the State budget – Prop. 1 LS for the financial year 2012 — the Ministry has mentioned measures to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers. One of the short-term measures mentioned is to consider reintroducing the possibility of additional tax at a reduced rate of 15 pst. Although some of the taxpayers who previously received additional tax of 15 p.p. are now completely exempt from additional tax, the experience with the new additional tax rules suggests that one looks at the issue of reduced rates again. In this context, I would like to consider proposing an amendment to the Equation Act that reintroduces the possibility of imposing additional tax at a reduced rate in cases where the equation is correct, but where taxpayers have not fulfilled their obligation to provide information by not correcting the pre-filled maritime notification. At the same time, it is important to fulfil the intention to extend the application of the rules on exemption from additional taxes. The Ministry will therefore take this up with the Directorate of Taxation to ensure that the department uses these rules in line with its intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e737	I thank you for your answer. The first part, the reference to the budget, is correct. But I think it's a little strange that you return to a rule that you actually removed because it didn't work – that was some of the purpose of it. Some of the background was precisely the assessments made in the Tax Directorate and its underlying bodies. So I'm happy for the last part of the answer. I think that's what's going on -- at least that's what's meant by my question -- to make sure that practice doesn't evolve in the direction it shouldn't, because it's a fact that there are many inexperienced taxpayers in this country. Then we have to make sure that they do not receive a treatment that simply loses the spark of participating in the creation of value.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e746	We fully agree with that. That's basically why we're going to go through the rules now, both to strengthen the legal certainty of the individual taxpayer and to show the reasonableness that it's necessary to show in those cases where people have done something that they were unthinkable about doing -- as I said in the main answer -- conditions that are inexcusable because of sickness, old age, inexperience or any other reason. It is important that we take care that we deal with the legislation so that the intentions are fulfilled, and that the taxpayer both feels and sees that there is a high level of legal certainty and security around being taxed. Then it may also provide a spur to contribute both in value creation and to pay the tax with greater joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e751	The last thing we should do is make an absolute contribution. I would like to recommend that the Minister of Finance spend time on the proposal referred to in the budget. But I know from experience that such processes often take a long time. As I said at the outset – I don’t think it’s a goal to get back to the starting point we had, which we considered relatively poor. On the other hand, action to influence practices should be taken quickly, through strong and authoritative intervention first by the Council of State and later by the bodies below it. I would definitely recommend that, because that's something that taxpayers can see relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e760	I can promise that it will not be used more time than necessary. It's an old saying that there's hope in hanging strings. There's not only hope here, there's also the possibility of a usable catch.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e769	My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘Through the administrative reform, the state lost 17 000 km of road. The county councils took over and have thus been responsible for several bad roads without having received the necessary money for improvement. The offer of State loans confirms the poor conscience of the State. The government also backed up the reform with a desire to look at permanent and complete national leadership. The work was started in the spring of 2010. When will the Council of State provide the drivers with increased safety through a national road standard applicable wherever in the country of transport?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e778	Administrative reform is a major reform within the road sector. Mi experience is that the county councils have been actively involved in fulfilling the role of a stronger regional development actor. I also have the impression that the transfer of responsibility has been good for the road users because the county councils are doing a good job as road photos and the largest road owners. However, it is important that the country, through national leadership, can contribute to the safest and most unintended role of the country. The size assumed that the county councils would take over the road network free of charge, with the standard it had at the time of adoption of the administrative reform and with related rights and obligations. I do not go into the transfer of funds to the county councils, as there is a known substance for the representative of Sortevik. The size also underlined the importance of a good standard on the county road network, an acceptable level of road investment and a sound policy for road safety in all counties. The scope and content of national guides were related to the standard, traffic security, etc. must be assessed on the basis of the needs of road users and industry and on the basis of national targets. In addition, consideration must be given to the county councils and the municipality of Oslo. There are already some national leaders. Others will be determined if not for long. The Road Data Code for the Municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo was adopted on 3 December 2010. The tunnel safety regulations for the county roads have been on the phone and are for handling in the Ministry of Transport. The Bruges Regulation has been sent on a call with deadline of 15 November. Greater work on national leadership is a work that is divided into two steps. Step 1 has its mouth out in a report that has been listening. It contains an overarching rating and a sketch to solve. After the Ministry has received its recommendation on the subject, it is necessary to decide on what further steps to take in step 2, i.e.: further clarify technical and functional standards for roadside and county councils’ work on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e789	Thanks for the answer. At the beginning of the administrative reform on 1 January 2010, the situation was that the state of the county roads was quite different, but evenly over poor. Then the picture was reinforced by a more poor path. I believe the Council of State and I share the wish and goal of a safe and unified road network all over the country. But now, after the administrative reform has entered into force, the situation is that of the total national and county road network in the country is about. 80 pst. actual highways. Then it is more important than ever to feel secure that there is a safe and good way with a national standard, preferably, which applies wherever in the country you drive, wherever the transport goes, regardless of the county economy – there are 19 counties – and regardless of priorities in the same 19 counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e796	Let me first take a distance from the expression white with. The intention is that the road network will also now come closer to those in question in decision-making. There is a shorter route between e.g. municipalities and regional authorities. It also shows the experience so far, the exposure in the transport sector and the means taken by the individual county. This is a field where the government naturally follows very closely, because it's like the Blackevik representative says: People don't know what the road names are, it's the standard that matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e803	I'm glad of the last clarification. That's what reality is out there in the world. At the same time, on page 66 of the State budget, this problem is posed by national leadership and national standards against the objective of ‘joint municipal freedom of action’. Is it not more important to have security through national guides that ensure safe transport wherever you are in the country than that the consideration of county freedom of action should weigh heavily, and that the counties themselves should largely determine and control the standard on the road? Is it not more important to provide safety to users and transport users? For the time being, we do not receive help from the Road Safety Authority, which should start with just looking at the national road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e810	I think this is going to be a good combination. It has also been shown for the first half of the year now. On the one hand, when it comes to both standard and road safety, we look at both road users and business needs across state borders and national targets. Then we give the county freedom that is important. It is true that in several counties, the freedom to strengthen the road network has been exercised, and the priority means of transport has been increased. When it comes to road safety, I'll come back to it, but I think it's okay here to take it step by step. We start with the national road network, and then we continue with county municipalities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e839	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e846	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development a question: ‘Accommodating outdoor offers requires resources and is important to create new opportunities and jobs in District Norway. Divorce, training and payment arrangements for this have been introduced in the media lately. Relative to the extent of the demarcation almost unlimited and the availability is small areas. The State Secretary has been very boisterous in his rejection of a cost recovery from users in the organized loops. Is the Council of State agreed and just as restrictive in its position?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e855	Let me first thank the representative Gunnar Gundersen for an exciting and important question. Let me also say that the matter does not concern what is being asked here, namely whether it is desirable to cover the use of sports facilities or to walk. I don't think there's any disagreement about that, and it's happening across the whole country that users agree to pay, for example. that tenants of an area or local population are involved in paying to those who renovate a leopard. The question is whether there is access to deny people free-life and their rights to all persons on the basis that they have to pay to use e.g.: a ski jumper. The case has been updated by a case on Lake Süsjön. I don't know it, so I'm now responding in general and in principle, not to the specific case of Lake Süsjön. The right to move and stay abroad, what we call universal rights, is the foundation of outdoor life in Norway and is regulated by the law on outdoors. As the representative of Gundersen certainly agrees, it is not a free choice of how to deal with the law – in this case I also agree with the law – but you have to deal with the law that Norway has. Under the Outdoors Act, there is only an opportunity to charge for access to so-called refurbished open-air areas. This aims at smaller, demarcated areas, for example: tents or parking spaces, worked up in relation to the open air area. The law does not open up the possibility of being paid for access to outdoor ski runs, and it is independent of whether the ski runs are prepared with natural snow or artificial snow. In inland waters, the legislation is different. The law does not provide for the right of movement for summer time, but can give it in winter time on frozen or snow-covered land. There is a limited freedom of movement in winter according to the law of the open air. You can only walk on foot, including skiing, and not in all types of inland areas. In rural areas where there is no right to move, the owner will be free to charge for access. Where an area is exempted from the right of movement, it must be assessed in a specific case but, in general, the threshold is high for an outdoor sports facility to be exempted from direct movement to the winter time of foot. I have, as the questioner, a great deal of understanding that it costs money to prepare ski boots, mark paths and facilitate outlanding in many different ways. But I believe that the opening of compulsory payment arrangements, which ultimately means that the police would arrest those who did not pay, is a poor solution. The Open Air Act does not prevent voluntary payment schemes. In most parts of the country, there are well-functioning systems of split layers between private and public and non-governmental organisations. There is also an amazing effort to do in this area. Where I have a cabin and spend a lot of time in winter, a fantastic effort is being made by both landowners, the Red Cross and others to keep the loop net open. Forced payment schemes will erode all-man rights and provide very unfortunate limitations on the ability of people most to use nature for sports and outdoors. There can be no doubt that the introduction of payment schemes could limit participation in sports and outdoor activities. I would like to point out in particular that the exercise of sport and outdoor activities in nature is important for the quality of life and public health of very large sections of the population, and that it also serves as a social balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e870	Let me thank you for what I see as both a constructive and a good answer. There is a lot we agree on – the general movement is important. At the same time, there is an overall problem here. Now, if you go to Lake Süsjön, you travel through a green landscape, and then you can go up and go in ski cabins that are asphalted and that are arranged with artificial snow – a lot of resources are put in to create local activity and attract people from outside to support a community. I believe that the Council of State also stressed that there is a difference between the types of products offered here. I guess that's also within the definition of what are less developed areas. There I think you should show a little more flexibility than you've done before, because this is what I believe as well-organized products that there must be an opportunity to get paid. So I hope the Council of State continues a good process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e875	First of all, let me say that I am happy to send a call to all those who use the shillings in Lake Süsjön, to be part of the split layer that it is to pay for it, whether it is local cabin owners who can join and pay, or – that's the impression I have – it's people who come from sports teams in other parts of the country and use the facilities. I am very happy to send an invitation to them to join in and pay. It's part of the sprawl layer that it's using common goods in Norway. The problem arises at the moment you start to open the door to charge for what is going on in the field. It's incredibly hard to see how to limit it. There are different degrees of skid work across the country. Ski jumpers go on the road, they go on the asphalt, they go on the sand – they're worked up in an incredible variety of ways. They are worked up with artificial snow and with natural snow – and there is reconstruction in the natural snow lying there. So I think it's going to be an incredibly difficult delimitation problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e882	I do not share the opinion of the Council of State that this is so difficult. There's really a lot of small areas we're talking about when we're talking about products that are so organized. So I would like to encourage a debate here on whether it is not possible to look at that kind of small facility, with a few kilometers of asphalted loops with art snow and light loops and everything, which is simply a commercial offer quite apart from the usual offer. But it is also an overall issue – the Council of State mentions volunteering, and I fully agree, it is a huge effort of volunteers around – that we are becoming an increasingly central resident population that comes out into District Norway and expects it to be ‘trick rails’. I'm sure the state council knows as well as I do, that most people are there. One does not send out a Danish to trample up the leopard to make Norway attractive as a tourist country. So there's an overall debate here, for which I think we should have an open eye, on how to organize for good products also in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e889	Fortunately, people are different. Some want to go in loose snow with telemarks skis, others want to go on ‘drink rails’, and others want different kinds of skating, stand on snowboard, etc. There's an infinite variation in how people want to use nature, and we're going to organize for everything. But I think it's going to be a very, very difficult starting position if you're going to start paying for it. The Gundersen mentions the luminosity loops. Oslomarka, as I know even better than Lake Lake Lake, is full of candlesticks. Very familiar is hardly any of them built by the municipality – I might be wrong there – it is the Ski Association that maintains this light loop network, and there are very different versions of how it is prepared. Starting to define some loops that so prepared that you can get paid for it, I think is a difficult suggestion. It is certainly not in line with the law of the open air.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e900	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Many people experience that their reported police report is dismissed even if the perpetrator is known and the police come to the scene. This also happened to a young couple like in May. I tried to fraranate my car. During the search, the female, high-gravity driver suffered a hard blow in the stomach, which had major consequences in retrospect. The racer was pulled out of the car by the police and seized. The matter has later been settled. Is the Council of State of the opinion that such acts of violence should be instituted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e909	The question is based on a specific criminal case, which is referred in an anonymised way and without indicating where it should have happened. I have to wait and say that during the day – after reading today’s newspapers – I have become familiar with the matter. I have to answer a little general first. And then I'm going to pick up the questioner, and then I'm going to pick it up. Let me begin by stressing that the handling of individual cases in criminal matters falls within the jurisdiction of the prosecutor, who is led by the national attorney. In dealing with individual cases, the prosecution authority is not subject to any instructions from the Minister of Justice, so I cannot reverse that type of decision or make decisions in the matter of raising a case. Nor is it reported to the Minister of Justice about the handling of individual cases in criminal matters, about the prosecution decisions taken, or the basis for them. Having said that, however, I would like to stress that serious acts of violence are and will be a matter of priority. I have to say, after both reading this question and seeing today's newspapers and the descriptions given there, that I understand very well why the questioner asks this question. The priority given to serious violent offences is clear. Here I show you, among other things: to the central and nationwide priorities of the national lawyer. The objectives and priorities set out in point 4 for 2011 clearly show this. Such a priority involves carrying out and carrying out investigations when faced with serious, serious offences — as described above — and giving priority to the type of case in the absence of resources. By Law of 25 June 2010 No. 46 the penalty for violent offences was significantly increased. It was a clear political signal from a mass collapse. There was a clear signal of increasing the level of penalties in individual cases, and it is important that the prosecution authority looks to the leadings of the preprocessor when making criminal claims. I also believe that it is between the lines that it is a politically desirable activity that the serious, serious crimes are just caught up in. I would also like to stress that if the offended person is dissatisfied with the police's handling of a case, for example. that it has been ordered, a complaint may be lodged with the overall prosecution authority. Then I just want to say briefly that after reading today's newspapers, I understand that this matter is actually being filed. Then it is very difficult for me to go into the matter. I'll never have a role in it. But I want to be constructive about this, because I think the action described out there, both by the questioner and in the media, is very serious. So we know that all things can have many kinds of facts. I cannot decide on them, but I would ask to be allowed to do so, since this has arrived today, to obtain a statement from the national lawyer on this matter, which I can send in writing to the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e928	Thank you very much for the answer I received from the Council of State. I think it's very positive speech to want to go in and look at what's really happened. It's some of what we might expect the most from our government council that he does, and he will do it in this case. That's good. But then it's like when a case is filed, it's up to the insulted person to apply for legal aid with his own means to get a change of decision, as we see in this case. The National Association for Victims of Violence reports an increasing number of requests due to a lack of public assistance. As you know, the Progress Party has promoted a comprehensive proposal that strengthens the rights of the victims. As I have been given – at least until now – the government in some areas is positive about some of this. But does the Council of State think it is right that the victims must bear the costs of an appeal, possibly the resumption of cases that are obviously due to a lack of resources, and not because of a lack of evidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e937	I do not know the basis for this matter, because I was informed about this in today's newspaper, but we can get a briefing on this from the national lawyer. I believe that the work done over the last few years, where we are just strengthening the situation of victims of violence, is certainly important. There's probably more left, but there's two elements in the strength that's been important to the government. The first is that you should have adequate assistance to the lawyer just to the legal point in the case. It is precisely in this area that it is necessary to obtain advice on the handling of the criminal case. I also believe that advice should be given to appeal an prosecution decision, which is not very demanding to do, but if you get help from a lawyer, it is useful. This is one of the reasons why we have had to extend the aid lawyer system in several cases. The second element is, of course, the extension of the compensation for victims of violence, which has occurred in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e944	The other day it became known through the media that the police districts of Agder have an internal note, a sort of list, about different things that the police chief will prioritise and not give priority to, and what matters will be settled on that list. This shows resource shortages. At my discretion, it is a police officer's responsibility and duty to inform the public of the lack of resources, and the public is required to follow up and maintain law and order. I also believe that it is the Council of State that is responsible for such list priorities, and not the individual police officer, who does as best he or she can. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e949	Yes, I can agree with that. The prosecution decisions taken must be answered by the police and the national attorney, but police priorities are a political responsibility – how to organise the work in particular and how to use the resources allocated. I also want to say to some extent that it is a political responsibility when we all choose to bring forward some issues that are more important than other issues. The size has done so, for example: priority should be given to serious, serious acts of violence. That means that things have to go in front of other things. If not, we'll be able to get into a situation where priority doesn't mean anything. This must be given priority in police Norway, and it is very much a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e960	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The manned situation at Sunnmøre Police District is now the lowest in the country. There is one police force per 1,000 inhabitants in this police district. This has become so, despite the fact that this is a very large district, with many challenges related to distance, fjord crossings, large ship traffic, etc. This low manning means that the inhabitants of Sunnmøre have a lower level of safety and security. What will the Council of State do to bring this police district up on a national average by manpower?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e969	It is an overall objective of the government to ensure that the Police and the National Assembly has sufficient staff and competence for the tasks to be carried out. This is why, with the support of Stortinget, the government has implemented a significant strengthening of the police between 2005 and 2011. We have also announced a review of how resources are allocated, in the forthcoming keynote on performance reform. The appropriations for police and prosecution have increased from 8.2 billion. kr in 2005 to SEK 12,2 billion. kr in 2011, a growth of 4 billion. kr, 48,8 pst. In addition, it's in Prop. 1 S for 2012 proposed an increase in the budget of 696 million. kr. For the government, it is important that the strengthening carried out contributes to a police force that is better able to prevent and combat criminal acts, while at the same time responding to the needs of the population for security, presence and service. In order to cover the full-year impact of employing high school police students who were trained this year, the police’s appropriations have been proposed to increase by 49.3 million. kr. Another important element if we are to get more policemen on Sunnmøre, is, of course, that we have to train them – in addition to hiring them. So during the period we've been talking about, we've chosen to triple the police high school admission. It gives us a great opportunity to strengthen all police districts. That's why I've been eager to say that the police high school students have to look around the country and not expect to get a job in Oslo/Akershus or in more urban-like police districts. In order to facilitate the provision of jobs in the establishment for all police high school students who have completed their training in the summer of 2012, the government proposes to increase the appropriations for the police by 88.9 million. kr. It allows for an increase of 202 years' work in the police action, 41 of them going to Oslo Police District. With regard to the police record in the future, we’re going to go beyond what was the norm in the police’s ambition to get more police coverage, not including 550 students, but 720 students. It is my deep hope that we will be able to spread these across the country – and thus contribute to the strengthening of staffing of the district that Nesvik is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e986	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have addressed this issue with the Council of State in the past and got about the same answer, except that it was then referred to a different budget. I think it is very good in the budget, linked both to the emergency network, which is being stepped up, and to the strengthened allocation of the emergency team. But unfortunately, it does not help us to train more police officers, unless we provide so liberal operating budgets in the police force that they can afford to hire these people. Where it fails in this budget, among other things: in investment in police districts. There are significant shortcomings. There is an alarming need for new police cars, including: on Sunmers, there are data investments that are not covered, and a whole series of other things. There is no room for this, ergo must be taken over the operational budget. This in turn means that jobs remain vacant. It doesn't help to get a job if you don't hire policemen in them. If it's the internal distribution from the Police Directorate that's crazy, or if there's something wrong from the Council of State, I'm not going to have any opinion about, but my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there's at least a bias here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e995	I'm going to be very careful to say that it's a biased distribution. When I travel around the district of Norway, and also in the central districts, i.e. in large cities and smaller cities, most police districts point out that they feel distorted. So it's hard to say that one district is more biased than another. We have some objective criteria, which the questioner just points out in his question: how many policemen do we have per capita? At the same time, I'm not going to add up to a line where we just decide police coverage based on the size of the population. Then maybe the districts would get out very badly, because then they would really populate areas of the country taking many of the police. We also have to think about what kind of crime you're dealing with, what kind of crime development you have, and how you're organized. We have announced that we want to look at the distribution in the announcement that is announced coming to Stortinget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1002	It is possible that if you have population as an objective criterion – that’s right – you may get worse, but if you also take distances as another objective criterion, I think you get relatively well out. It is clear that when you have a police district with many fjord crossings, hollows and scissors, boat traffic, tourist traffic, etc., which you have in this district, it is ominous that you have a crew of 0.98 police per 1 000 inhabitants, as claimed in some national channels, to one per 1 000 that you operate with. The objective is two police per 1 000 inhabitants, in the long term. Then it goes without saying that the people of Sunnmaere have a worse police coverage than almost every other place. It is clear that then something has to be done, because this is not sustainable. I myself have been driving a police patrol where it is actually said that prom drivers cannot be followed up because they are so far away that they have both come home, slept and become sober again, before the police patrol can get to the place. Doesn't the Council see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1009	I want to say that when the government in recent years has opted to triple the admission to the Police College, we see that last year – we had the same round last year too, I think – the result was that you were able to hire 95 pst. of those who graduated from the Police College. That's very good. We have to be happy about that. Then it is that for many years there has been a decline in police coverage because you have had low admissions to the Police College. It's perfectly clear. Now we hope that trend is about to turn, when the big coals now come out. I'll do what I can because Sunnmaere, other districts and several non-urban struts keep up with the developments we're now going to have in police coverage. I come sail from Hedmark, where we also struggle with long distances, long boundaries and a lot of challenging borderline crime. There's every reason to keep an eye on this, and then the high school police students need to know that they have to apply for jobs all over the country, when the homes are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1020	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The population of Svalbard must, in local elections, relate to two different election days, one for the continental municipal and county elections, and one month later, to the local government in Longyearbyen. This means that you can take less advantage of the electoral mobilization resulting from the election campaign until the municipal and county elections. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change today's practice with two different election days on Svalbard in local elections, so that there will be one single election day with mainland Norway?»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1029	The matter the representative takes up here, I have been seafaring. The question was at the hearing in autumn 2006 in connection with the proposal for a new regulation on local government elections in Longyearbyen. Before the 2003 elections, i.e. before my time in the Ministry of Justice, the question of a common election day was raised, but for time reasons the Ministry of Justice decided to return to the case before the 2007 elections. A little more about history: previous election dates have not been practical in a community with long vacation breaks in the summer, later school start and many newly arrived swallowbard residents each fall. Elections to the former Svalbard Council were held as late as the second month of November each year. With the introduction of the Longyearbyen local government from 1 January 2002, the term of office was extended to four years and the electoral date was changed to October, so that the newly elected local government could form and adopt budgets for the following year. Back to 2006: I thought that there could be a basis for considering a previous election date in Longyearbyen, on the basis of the following arguments: it must be considered an important democratic principle that the elections take place at the same time on Svalbard and on the mainland. Common election day with mainland may contribute to higher electoral participation. A third argument for a previous election date was that the state budget was presented at the beginning of October, which takes a lot of attention from local issues. In the hearing there was broad and strong opposition from local authorities to change the timing of the elections. The Longyearbyen local government was clearly opposed to the change. The employee joined in and felt that there should be a great deal of emphasis on what the representatives of the local population themselves meant. It was not relevant for me to go against such a clear signal from the people elected in Longyearbyen, and already in a public meeting in the city in February 2007 I made it known that the election date would not be changed. The proposal was not implemented at that time. One of the arguments for proposing the same election day on the mainland and in Longyearbyen was that it could help to increase the turnout of local government. The resolution was 40 pst. in the 2007 elections, approximately the same as it was in 2003. Given the special circumstances of the Longyearbyen, with short average living time and few fights between the parties, I do not consider this to be particularly worrying. However, it is very gratifying that participation in the year's elections was 57 p.m. – despite the fact that the elections were held one month later than on the mainland. I am not aware that the question of the previous election time has now been raised from the local team. Should this happen, or for other reasons it is considered natural to reconsider the matter, it will be possible to do so in good time before the next local government election, in the autumn of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Once I've raised the question, it's because it's taken up with me by people who are actually elected into the new local government of Svalbard. I see that Svalbard is special, but I think that Svalbard is no more special than that it should be fully possible to synchronise these election days. Being able to vote in advance because you are on the move and on the move also applies to our citizens who live on the mainland. So it has to be able to accommodate it. Having knowledge of their candidates could probably be the same as for residents in the municipalities of mainland Norway. That is why I do not think that should be a decisive argument for not being able to consider having a single election day. I interpret the Council of State to that this is a matter that can be re-examined, if there is a play from the local government about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1053	That's how the questioner can interpret me. As I explained in the answer, there are for-arguments. But we fell to the point that we didn't want to change, because there was clear resistance. So at the same time, I want to say that I have some respect for those in Longyearbyen who say that on the basis of when you get up there again, it is appropriate for them to have a slightly later election time in order to be able to run a campaign for a few weeks. I have now followed the election campaign a little from the sideline, among other things. through the Svalbard post, and have seen that there were actually quite good electoral events, which helped to put the search light on current matters for Longyearbyen, and which I think helped to get such a good voter that you got in Longyearbyen in this election, as opposed to the previous one. But my position is that to the extent that there is pressure and a desire to do so, we should of course reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1060	I agree that it should also be added to Svalbard in order to allow you to put your own issues on the agenda. But the truth is that election campaigns can also be conducted over a longer period than just the last two or three weeks before the elections. I want to say that I too have noticed that this time, fortunately, the turnout was better than last time, for 40 pst. digestion is probably not the whole world to boast of. There has probably also been some background to the idea that a single election day could be mobilising, and that it is important to participate as much as possible and to participate in the selection of local government there. But again: I thank you for the answer and realize that this is a problem that can be brought back if it becomes a theme and it is raised by the local population on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1069	We'll be able to do that. Of course, we have frequent contact with the Employment Manager, who is under the Ministry of Justice, and not least with local government, and there will be a contact meeting between us already this autumn. I'm going to assume that it's also possible to address this issue there, so that we get a discussion about it, while we have to assume that many people who live in Longyearbyen are on the mainland in June, July, August and maybe even beyond in September, and that that's a good reason to wait with the election. But, as I said, I'm open to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1087	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1095	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The number of farms is reduced for each day, and the prospects for the future do not indicate that the trend will turn around. In Hedmark, the number of farms has been about halved in the last ten years. How will the State Council make more people self-employed in agricultural food production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1104	I am pleased to record that the representative Bredvold and the Progress Party also now appear to be committed to maintaining employment in agriculture. Some of the main objectives of the agricultural policy pursued are precisely to secure the areas, to ensure Norwegian food production and to make it attractive for new generations to take over and operate farming. I note, however, that we have so little experience of receiving support from the Progress Party in this policy. Norwegian agriculture experienced a large increase in building investment in the 1970s and 1980s. A large part of these buildings now have to be renewed. It usually results in both larger units and a use of technology that makes work easier and faster. The same applies also in the case of initial investment in machinery. I would assume that neither the Progress Party is opposed to technological development and efficiency. These are choices for individual professionals themselves outside the political space, which means that production is maintained with fewer annual works in traditional agriculture. As we know, we have some constraints in terms of both limited area and market. This limits volume increases for the main products that can be produced in Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, in order to ensure the objective of active and varied agriculture across the country, the policy and economic instruments are actively used to facilitate special productions, short-term food, complementary industries, small-scale agriculture, youth recruitment, ecological sustainability, etc. It is therefore too easy to claim that the Norwegian agricultural policy has failed because we still have a decline in the number of annual jobs in primary agriculture. It is a more relevant question to ask what Norwegian agriculture, especially in the districts, would look like without the current agricultural policy or for example. with the draft budget of the Progress Party in the agricultural sector. We don't have to go beyond a trip across the Swedish border to see it quite clearly. A concern of the Progress Party regarding the reduction in the number of farms appears to be of little credibility when the party has essentially opposed or cut dramatically in all measures aimed at helping to ensure active and varied farming across the country. I therefore hope that the question raised by the representative, Mr Bredvold, will mean that the Progress Party has now turned its back on agricultural policy and will support measures and instruments to ensure active and varied agriculture throughout the country, and not just to beat the entire industry, as they have done in their alternative budgets so far. In order to make more people want to become self-employed, it is obvious that the agricultural industry must be regarded as attractive to young people and that opportunities for income and investment must be improved. This important industry needs to be sold more positively and the use of the full range of resources on agricultural property needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1119	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Progress Party will not reverse its agricultural policy, on the contrary. We are going to strengthen our agricultural policy, because the agricultural policy that is today is not working. When less than half of those who are either noble or noble, want to take over the parents and perhaps even more generations back have created, there must be evidence that the agricultural policy we have today is not working. Therefore, the Progress Party will continue its agricultural policy, which is different. We will give the individual farmer or self-employed in food production the freedom to operate with what he wants. As it is today, there are a number of limitations on how to run a farm, and I certainly believe that the Council of State must look at this, so that there are opportunities for, among other things. additional features when operating a farm. There are too many strict rules and restrictions for which there is no possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1126	I had probably not expected a full agreement from the representative of Bredvold to the government's policy directly over the pulpit here now, but I still think it is interesting that he is concerned about the issues that are going to depart. Let me stress that the best way to reduce take-off is to improve income opportunities, improve business opportunities, whether in terms of primary production or traditional volume production, or to facilitate new industries. Over the years we have been in government, we have significantly improved revenue for industry, significantly improved revenue opportunities. Over six years, it amounts to NOK 110 000 per year, which is more than it has been in many, many years. We've seen that the take-off has been reduced, I'm very pleased. In the case of ancillary industries, I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold that we need to work to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1135	I thank the Council of State for the answer. So it is a new policy that we in the Progress Party want, and that policy must give individual businessmen the freedom to operate with it a desire on their own farm and on their own grounds. Then there must be no restrictions. When we know at the same time that for people who take over a farm today – whether it is a nobleman, a nobleman or another – the average age is 50.7 years, it goes without saying that it may be limited how much one has left of his active working life when one takes over so late. The reason why I mention it exactly, 50.7 years, is that it probably shows that it's not so popular – to use that word – to take over a farm today compared to what it was before. There are so many other ways to make money, to get a job. That is why, as I said, we must have a completely different agricultural policy from that of the government today, so that we can stop what is happening today, because what we are seeing today is a winkpinning of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1144	When the representative Bredvold uses the word ‘seigpining’ about what we see today in Norwegian agriculture, I would just like to reiterate that the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted as long as I have been in the Stortinget and afterwards in government have been constantly based on the fact that we are going to further reduce transfers to the industry, further reduce the total income of the industry, etc. I would think that would have led to a significantly worse situation with regard to recruitment, and perhaps to a bankruptcy wave, as we have calculated. What is important – and I agree with the representative of Bredvold in this – is to ensure that we get the job with the recruitment process and promote a policy that ensures revenue further. It's still my ambition, not least that they have good investment assets. We have proposed in the budget to improve the depreciation rates, which contribute well in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1155	‘For the world as a whole, agricultural aid has decreased significantly. In Norway, domestic agricultural products are 91 pst. more expensive than imported goods. In Norway, public aid has passed its share of agricultural income over 60 p.m. No country around the world has as high agricultural support as Norway. When we see that the world is experiencing commodity prices and sovereign debt crises, does the Council agree that it is time to cut agricultural subsidies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1162	It is true that we have a high price level in Norway, because we are a rich country with a high wage level. Eurostat figures show that in 2009 the price level was 43 pst, if we look at all goods and services in Norway. higher than in the EU, while food was 53 pst. over. The Norwegian level of aid is high, but the OECD figures show that total aid is also falling in Norway. Customs protection of key goods we produce in Norway means that the very high commodity price level internationally affects prices of Norwegian products directly to a lesser extent. However, imports and production costs of Norwegian agriculture may increase when international prices are high enough. In isolation, the competitiveness of the Norwegian food chain is strengthened when prices increase internationally, but it does not automatically generate higher incomes for Norwegian agriculture. We have objectives with regard to Norwegian agricultural policy, including: We want Norwegian agriculture, Norwegian producers, to meet domestic demand for what we can produce here far up north. It's going to happen in a sustainable way, and we're going to maintain an agriculture all over the country. The assessment of the use of instruments, including agricultural aid, must be made in relation to the policy objective, and we have – there is nothing to hide – major challenges to address, as Norwegian agriculture is in a renewal phase. There is a need for good income development and to facilitate an attractive industry for future generations. That is why I believe that the international situation of the representative is referring to the issue, not that it is time to cut agricultural aid. On the contrary, Norwegian agriculture needs to be strengthened — as it is also necessary to strengthen agriculture internationally. Last Monday, the World Food Day was marked around the world to highlight perhaps the greatest challenge of our time: how to feed a rapidly increasing population in a world of climate change and increasing scarcity and struggle for natural resources such as soil and water? The international situation with significant uncertainty about future food supply is an important backbone, including for Norwegian agricultural policy. We can not only rely on imports of food from other countries, but must use our own natural resources through active agriculture throughout the country. The previous question also came from the Progress Party, but was about how I could get more people to become self-employed in food production in agriculture. I believe it is obvious that a substantial cut in income opportunities will be a very negative contribution in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1177	We see that Norwegian shielding is the highest in the world. In Norway, protection aid is 61 p.p., while in the EU it is 20 p.p. So here we are far away, which makes commodity prices the highest in the world. We also see in the latest report that came out yesterday, as among other things. It was mentioned at the NRK that the food prices for a family are 15 000 kroner more expensive in Norway than if they were traded in Sweden. If a family of children who may consume 10–12 litres of milk per week, cross the border and buy all milk in Sweden, they will be saved between NOK 3500 and NOK 5000. There are figures provided by the industry, and this is due to agricultural policy today. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: does he not see that what is happening now, is that the Norwegians go to Sweden and act, and that it is again going to harm the Norwegian food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1186	I must be allowed to ask: Is Norwegian food particularly expensive? I think we should be right about the presentation. Everything is expensive in Norway. However, an average family uses only 10-11 pst. of its income on food. It's something the lowest we have in Europe. As I mentioned earlier, the level of costs in this country makes it expensive. Swedish salaries are 30 pst. lower than the wages and salaries in Norway. There is cross-political agreement that we should have food production in agriculture in Norway. Two conditions make it a price – it is important to bring it with you. One is natural conditions. It's steep, winding and cold in this long-range country. And the second is, as I have mentioned, the level of costs. Nordics have higher wages than most. Everything is expensive in Norway. Norwegian wages are, as I said, 30 pst. over the Swedish, and then also goods and services in our neighbouring country become 30 pst. more reasonable. The Operation report referred to here came today. I have unfortunately not yet had time to read it in its entire width, but there it is said that it is 31 billion. kr at the additional cost of the Norwegian food chains. It represents 8 billion for agriculture. kr – and the shielding is an important piece of it – €13 billion. kr is due to Norwegian cost level, i.e. Norwegian salary level, and SEK 9.5 billion. kr is unexplained, as I have understood. It also said the Food Chains Committee, so the same conclusion has been reached. I am pleased that we have received this investigation, and we are going to use it actively when we continue to work with the hearing on the Food Chains Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1195	The Council of State got a little extended speaking time, so the president should be a little modest with the representative as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1198	When we go in and look at the prices, the report from NILF, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, shows that it costs 31.3 billion. For the Nordics to trade in Norway more than it would do to trade in Sweden. That's all the time because it's the way you set up the farmers today. The peasants, with the Council of State Breck, are today governed by rigid rules. Once again, if someone is going to open a bakery, they tell you that you're only allowed to sell ten breads, how is that baker going to live off it? Otherwise you have to go on government subsidies. This is evidence that it is the agricultural policy that is being pursued today that does not work. What we see now is that prices in the world are falling. A report came out last Thursday that shows that the price index in the world is falling, while in Norway it is rising. Then my question to the Council of State is: What action will the Council of State now take to protect the Norwegian food industry, when these price differences are obtained? The Norwegian food industry is currently struggling with high wages and poor efficiency due to high commodity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1205	Let me go to court with the representative, Tjældal. The 31st B.C.E. kr has its cause in the following points, as I have read it in the morning today: 8 B.C.E. kr is a consequence of agricultural policy and protection of Norwegian agriculture, 13 billion. is due to the Norwegian level of costs — it cannot be imposed on the Norwegian farmer as a responsibility — and EUR 9.5 billion. kr is undecided. It may have to do with competitive conditions and lack of competition in the daily food industry. We're looking at this. What is important now is that we see that it costs to have an agriculture in this country. The Progress Party must also realize that if they want us to have food production here. It costs something, in the sense that we want a production divided into all the counties. The policy of the Progress Party will be to centralise all production into a few areas and to open up the boundaries of imports, which will erase much of what we want – to delete the possibilities of safe food, to erase the possibilities for Norwegian consumers to get the products they want, i.e. Norwegian agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1218	‘Police, fire service and air ambulance’ — there is a small pressure error here, it should have been ambulance service — ‘in Telemark, it is entirely dependent on volunteer skiers and Bamble Red Cross, which is the only diving gear in the county. The Labour Inspectorate now says that the volunteer divers are no longer allowed to save lives, and has ordered Red Cross to send the divers on an expensive course, so that they can become certified life divers. In this case, will the Council of State consider transitional arrangements and/or grants to provide the required courses to the voluntary teams?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1225	The case referred to by the representative Hoksrud has a background in a supervision carried out by the Labour Inspectorate to Bamble Red Cross and Skien Red Cross in February of this year, which has now resulted in an order that divers and divers to perform life-saving diving must undergo safety training in accordance with the provisions of the Diving Regulation. As far as I understand, the local police and fire department do not have their own divers, so that they have concluded a contingency agreement with the Red Cross instead. In the light of the safety training required, a diving certificate shall be issued for life divers. I would like to make it clear that this is not a new requirement, but a requirement that has been there since 1998. Therefore, no formal transitional arrangements are applicable in this respect. The cost of a life-saving diving certificate is approximately NOK 30000 and it takes approximately: 45 school days/evenings to complete the course. I understand that this can be seen as a significant expense, but would stress that the Ministry of Labour does not have the budgetary resources to provide such a subsidy. However, I have been informed by the Ministry of Justice that Red Cross receives an annual grant of 2 million. kr. Finally, I would like to mention that it is not such that Bamble and Skien Red Cross do not have time to surround themselves. According to what I have been informed, the deadline for complying with the requirements is 31 May next year. The Labour Inspectorate has also told me that they have been informed that the decisions will be appealed. I therefore do not want to comment too much specifically on this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1238	At the latest today, I had contact with the ambulance service in the municipality of Bamble. They're very pleased. They're very concerned that this is an important readiness to maintain, because it's actually about saving human lives when the accident happens at sea. They are now very concerned about the signals and the imposed by the Labour Inspectorate. Because this is an organization, you see it as a business. But if there had been individuals, the police could use just who they wanted to do these dives, if they only had a diving certificate and made an appointment. I think it's a little weird for an organization that's based on volunteering, where it's about volunteering, and where people set up for free to save people. So I had hoped that the Council would look at the burden that has now come, and perhaps consider granting exemptions to organizations. The Red Cross is at least very concerned about one should get exceptions as long as one does not operate a business in the normal sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1243	As I finally said in my previous answer, I would be reluctant to go into this matter specifically, because it can end up on my table. But I can say something general, in general, about the problem. It is such that the diving regulations and the requirements they impose are set in order to make the persons performing that job as competent as possible and to ensure that they are able to do what they need in order not to cause damage to themselves or to those for whom they carry out the task. As far as I understand, it is a matter such as this one that the police and rescue services in the municipality do not have this function themselves, but this function is fully carried out by another organisation. Then it can be voluntary or not, but in reality they carry out the task that could otherwise have been done in the municipality with employees in the municipality. It is strange to have different security rules, that as a citizen I should be rescued by a person with different security requirements, because you have one organisation or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1250	It's even more strange not to be rescued, because that's the consequence of shutting down this service. The point is that municipalities cannot afford to implement this kind of preparedness. It costs an enormous amount of money to have such a kind of standby in place 24 hours a day. That means that the closest dives are in the Drammen, and if there's an accident on the Telemark coast, it's unfortunately likely that people will die. That's what this is all about. The Red Cross is very concerned that this is the police's responsibility, because the police are asking these divers to do the job. Does the Council of State mean that the Labour Inspectorate should review the police? Or should it actually be the police who are responsible for security, security and preparedness, and for having a readiness to rescue people, instead of risking people not being rescued because the municipalities have no chance of getting such a preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1257	Here we must be principled. The point is that we have rules for what's going on to do diving at this level, and those rules are set out in the light of some assessments. I think they all, most of them, agree on the basis of those rules. Then I am responsible for a work supervisor who has as a job to supervise that those rules have been followed. Then you discover that a service – as the representative himself says – is used here as any other service in the municipality, but they do not have this certificate. Then it is my duty and the duty of the Labour Inspectorate – subject to not going into this matter, I just stress it again – to point out that the safety requirements that you have to meet here have not been met. Then you can always say, as the representative does, that it is expensive for the municipality to get it, but I will never go into a system where I say: Yes, but then we relax on the safety requirements because the municipality can't do this. That's the principle of this question. And I underline again: it's NOK 35,000. It should not be impossible to implement this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1268	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘In a look-up in NRK Sogn and Fjordane on 10 October 2011, it is shown that the quality assurance of the Coastal Agency’s last report on the City of the Ship Tunnel has been sent to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Now it turns out that new arrangements are to be made, and it is drawn in doubt if the boats will hit the tunnel in bad weather. This will be the 18th edition of the City Ship Tunnel, and this should be clarified a long time ago. What do the quality assurances on the socio-economic benefits of the City Tunnel say, and when is the report published?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1277	As the representative of Bjørn Lødemel points out, we have recently seen more headlines in the media about the quality assurance of the investigation on the City Ship Tunnel. This is particularly the case with regard to the additional investigation currently under consideration by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency on the use of the ship’s tunnel under the worst foreseeable wave and current conditions in the area. The representative Lødemel will ask when the report of the quality assurances will be published. To that I would say that as of today there is no completed report from the external quality assurance companies. When the report is available, it will be published. However, unanswered questions remain before they can be completed. It was too short to draw the history that the Coastal Authority's investigation of the City of the Ship Tunnel was presented at the turn of the year 2010/2011. This investigation is publicly available on the Coastal Authority’s websites. The work on the external quality assurance of the Coastal Plant investigation started in February 2011. During the external process, questions have been raised by the quality assurance authorities about the use of the tunnel under poor weather conditions have been adequately addressed. The coastal works have therefore been asked to assess it more closely. The quality assurance team will only complete its report after this work has been done. I have been told that this quality assurance can be available early in 2012. We will continue to keep it on track in relation to the timetable outlined in the National Transport Plan, with possible start-up in the last half of the 2010–2019 planning period if it is decided to continue with the project. We do not want any secrecy around the investigations about the City Ship Tunnel. As I have already said, the Coast Guard investigation is public. When the external quality assurance is available, it will also be published. This review will be an important contribution to the government's further consideration of the matter before we come back to Stortinget with a proposal on the further follow-up of the City Ship Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1292	I thank you for your answer. I have to admit that it is very sad to see that the City Ship Tunnel has been sent out on new arrangements. It's very disappointing for everyone who's been fighting for years to build this ship's tunnel. It is also very regrettable that a flaked statement is presented that the boats may not hit the hole, as was stated in the NRK Sogn and Fjordane. There is direct distrust on the part of the Council of State, both with regard to boat drivers, tunnel fighters and not least with regard to all those who have previously made recommendations. NIVA and SINTEF. The location of the ship's tunnel is a very important maritime transport project on the coast. That's why so many people have been fighting for years to realize this project. Does the Council not see that flaked expressions and increasingly new arrangements are weakening support for the construction of the City Ship Tunnel, and is that part of the purpose of such plays?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1299	So here it's the quality assurance company that asked for a new investigation. The quality assurance provider requests is to see if there are limit values for wave, current and visibility conditions. Visibility is about what you see when you're going into that tunnel. So it may have been perceived as flakes, and maybe it's about my use of dialect, but term is one of the themes the quality assurances have asked for being investigated in the area that is so difficult that the tunnel may have to be closed for some or all of the vessels under certain conditions. So it is not my words, but it is the quality assurances who ask for it. So, as I said, it may be in my translation and use of words that I can be perceived as flakes. At least that wasn't my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1304	I thank you for your answer. The location of the ship's tunnel is in the middle of two fjords, and that's one of the reasons so many have responded to the expressions that have come. I must admit that the Council of State is on a swinging ground, to say it mildly, in this matter. It also appeared earlier in the oral question time. Perhaps that's one of the reasons why the Council of State has agreed that he should go on new distributions. I have learned through a long life in politics that if one is to carry out important projects, it is about both political capacity and political will for implementation. I said to newspaper the Firda post yesterday that I wanted to demand an honest answer about City Ship Tunnel in Question Time today. My question to the Council of State, to which I ask an honest answer, is this: Does the Council of State want City Ship Tunnel to be built, or does the Council of State not want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1311	I am in any case concerned with giving honest answers. You're definitely saying that. My honest answer is that here it's actually not what I want or not, but what comes out in the investigation, in the quality assurance. Then it becomes the government that to the seventh and last should conclude for our part on the road choices further. Having a good basis for decision is extremely important to me – and in any case. I am very much in favour of having both the subject and the quality at the bottom and not least the knowledge. I have to admit, of course, that I am not sitting with this knowledge myself, and I am totally dependent on getting a good decision-making material. I believe that I get through this process, and then it's absolutely true, as it's been said several times, that there's a pretty big pile of investigations at the bottom, but for the state there's actually two of them that the state has started. Of course, everything else is also involved in the further assessment. What I have also said is that we are keeping the timetable – that is the most important thing. So I come back to Stortinget in line with what has been said in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-19.ana.ud2247e1326	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the representative does not want the floor before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
