ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e26	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. They called the alternates, for Akershu County Anita Orlund and for Hedmark County Ivar Skulstad, have taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for the extension of the granted leave of the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten until 31 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e57	There are two permit applications: from the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold on leave from 31 March to 4 April and from the representative of Mr Sigvald Uppøen Hansen on leave on Monday 4 April – both to take part as observers of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the Presidential elections in Kazakhstan. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Telemark County, Hanne Thürmer, is currently abroad, and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold. The representatives of the goods of the Telemark County, Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Dag Sele are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e83	On behalf of Tord Lien, Elisabeth Aspaker, Dagrun Eriksen and myself, I propose to freeze the process of the closure of state primary schools for hearing-impaired persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e88	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e100	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Tora Aasland and Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e107	The government is building new roads that are both bad, dangerous and not adapted to future traffic growth. Last Saturday the news came that a four-month-old parcel on the E18 in Eastfold had been destroyed by telehiv. On the E6, from Oslo and northwards, the road is built as a motorway. At the same time, the E6 in Øyer builds a split new tunnel with no middle parts, where the road gets good standard on both sides of the tunnel – with middle parts. On rv. 80 makes the government the opposite. A four-field bridge is built with a middle section, while the road on both sides of the bridge is planned as a two-field road. Standard requirements on new roads were removed from the 2007 road code. It is now almost 50 years since the first motorway sections in Norway were put into service, and several of these sections have hardly changed since then. The roads that Norway is building today will most likely also be in use in 50 years. We may well have to admit that road traffic has come to be, even if some red-green representatives and the environmental movement wish that this was not right. In recognition of the fact that road traffic will remain here for many more years, it is therefore important to build safe, solid roads that withstand the tooth of time. But here the government's policy is completely failing. On 10 February this year, the Progress Party proposed to change road standards by reducing the requirement for day-to-day traffic, so that important road safety measures such as middle parts, wide centre marking and three or four-field road would become applicable on several projects in the construction of new roads, or the improvement of existing roads. The proposal only received the votes of the Progress Party in Stortinget. Does the Council now realize that we have to build roads for the future, roads that actually can withstand being used?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e120	There is a great lack of Norwegian roads. That's because we're in the middle of time on the road right now. We started nine big projects last year. We're going to get closer to 20 new ones this year, we're going to keep going, we're going to put a stop to the set-up, and we're going to build a new one. So Hoksrud mentions two examples that I'm going to comment on. First of all, telehiv. What is detected both on the E18 and on the E6 is completely unacceptable. The state road authority has an expert group that is now going through the situation. I'll have a report on that, and then I'll see what action needs to be taken there. Other liabilities Øyer-Treet. So in the spring of 2009, there was a difficult balance: we're going to build a new road through the Gudbrand valley. It's an unclosed road. Should we build now and bet on one race and two run later when the traffic takes up, or should we wait and take the two run at the same time? The whole Stortinget was behind one race on the main stretch, Øyer–Tretten. So there's planning in relation to two races, so when the traffic there increases, two races will be finished. Of course, this is always the case: Where do you want to put the immediate action first? They'll be inserted where the traffic is the largest, and where the windshield load is the largest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e129	Yes, I registered that the Council of State would comment on the two ways, but it's not just the two ways where one has had problems with televised. And it's especially that in a country where we've had winters all year long, we can't build roads that can withstand being driven on, which actually tolerates a Norwegian winter. Then you might want to start asking some questions about which criteria you have used for those roads. To the Council of State: When one sees that one is building roads or tunnels that are almost illegal when they are opened, yes, then one should probably reason and make sure to build out two runs so that one does not build illegally. We don't have to wait. If it's political will, you can use a hat and make sure you build two races, so you don't see what we're looking at right now. Because I think it would be foolish to open a new road that is illegal. Don't the Council of State agree that it's stupid to build roads that are illegal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e136	I'm actually taking the distance from building a road that's illegal, and I guess the whole Storting used the head in spring 2009 when they decided to build a tunnel on this one-run section, including the Progress Party. They had counter performances against tolls, but not on the question of one or two races – that was in the spring of 2009. Let's now rejoice that we're on the road through the Gudbrand valley, which is a very unclosed road. So the representative Hoksrud said that we were now looking away from everything called road normals. I can then roa Hoksrud and others who had to live in that misunderstanding, saying that in the new normals of January 2011 is just frostproof, measures against telehiving and the dimensioning of road superstructures are sharpening. Elles: The changes that took place in 2007 are made to allow some flexibility. All of this – given how traffic and other roadways are – is not to reduce the standard on our roads. It's the opposite of ensuring better standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e143	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e146	Then I hope that when the government now builds some new roads with the car drivers' money, it will not only be roads that are tele-safe, but that are actually traffic-proof. Perhaps the most serious problem here is that the red-green government is actually building new roads that are dangerous roads. Not only are the two examples referred to by the representative Hoksrud; we have also dealt with two cases earlier this year on two new European roads in Norway that are being built without midpoints, which is the safest measure that can be taken to avoid meeting accidents and fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. What will the Council of State and the Government do to ensure that Norway no longer builds unsafe and dangerous new roads, but takes the zero vision, as they say they are committed to achieving, in a much more serious way than what appears when a new road is built?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e153	The null vision will be taken seriously. This is because we are increasingly building safer and safer roads, taking into account that the causes of accidents are compounded and that the solutions must also be – for example, measures in relation to vehicles and road users. So note Sortevik two examples: it's E6 west of Alta, it's Astad–Knutset – both ways with low traffic today. We have an economic framework to stick to. That means we put the measures in where they work best. Then I have to stress when it comes to middle parts, that I now get a report during the spring, because I have asked the Directorate of Road to look at the existing name and plan ahead to be more flexible compared to the requirement of 8 000 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e160	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e163	Once again, we hear that this government likes to boast about building new roads, even though these are often funded by road users. In the autumn of 2010, the Prime Minister opened the new route on E18 at Ashim, and now we see that this lengthened road route does not tolerate a normal winter. This makes us ask ourselves, how are we really building our roads? The cheer over new roads stops quite quickly when, only after a winter, they are dangerous to traffic and have serious injuries. Fortunately, we have a press that informs us about this, and there have certainly been a lot of suggestions in the last few days, so the Minister of Transport should know these matters well. We also had one case last year here in the hall where we went for concrete goals for what was good. The government went against this. Will the government now review this and introduce quantifiable and temporal objectives related to Norwegian road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e171	The examples I have seen in recent times in the case of telehiv are totally unacceptable. It applies to both the E18 and the new route there, and it applies to other sections. That's the way it is. Therefore, the state road authority must also have the possibility to go closer to what has actually happened. Because it's not going to happen. As a result, they will also report back what has happened in these cases. Luckily, when this is the case, road standards are tightened from 1 January 2011, as an extra insurance, because we now see climate change and other changes that make us particularly aware of frost damage, even though telehiv is not an unknown remedy for anyone. It should not occur to the extent that it does so on new routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e178	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e181	I share the concern the Council of State has for the specific issues that have been mentioned here. In any case, there is no urgency, either in planning or construction, that could be the reason for this. So I have documentation from the National Association of Construction that tells us that on average it takes nine years to plan a road in Norway – and this is only the planning before we start construction. So if there's agreement about a road, we'll use the time until 2020 to plan that road, and then we can start building that road in 2020. That's why my question is: does the Council of State think that nine years of planning is a natural time? And if she doesn't, what will she do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e186	The answer is no. I thought nine years is a very long time, and it is also an example of road sections that have been planned over several decades. The reason is that there was a rather long period when nothing special was built in this country. Now we're building everything. So now we have a very ambitious national transport plan that we're following up projects for projects. So there's a reason to ask the question, what is this doing? Of course, this is all that needs to be planned in the individual municipality, different options to check out, the cost image, etc., and not least the closer you yourself to a planned path, the stronger you can think of this. All of this takes time. But I'm busy shortening the planning time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e193	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e196	The business that is on our roads every day reports to me that they want a place where they can be heard. They don't feel it's like this today. Therefore, the Left has been a driver over many years for independent roadside supervision. We have now received a roadside inspection at Voss, but the websites of the Ministry of Transport say the following: ‘host added to a separate device directly under the direction of the road.’ So my question to the Council of State is, is this an independent roadside supervision, such as the industry on our roads demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e206	First of all, to be heard. I'm very surprised that the industry won't be heard. We have e.g. a dedicated transport and logistics forum, where we meet several times a year, and where the industry is widely represented – either a talk about the Logistics Association, Norway's Lastebileier Association or others. One thing is to say the meaning, but then the question is whether we're going to follow up everything that I mean, or are we going to carry out an overall assessment of how we're going to use our funds, what we want to prioritize? I know the last one, and I'm very happy that we've now created a supervision, and that's a unit under the direction of the road. I think it's going to work very well. Let me stress that the option would have been 100 million. kr less for other road purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e213	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e216	My question goes to the State Council of Aasland. Yesterday, VG Net informed us that the Data Protection Authority carried out an inspection at the Forensics Institute on 12 November 2010. In the present report of the Data Protection Supervisor, a crushing judgment on the processing of sensitive data by the Forensic Institute. There are major systematic shortcomings in the internal control systems and information security of the establishment. There are serious breaches of the basic data requirements of the Data Protection Act when processing that type of data, and reference is made to the fact that the RMI has systematically exceeded the powers granted by its payers or legislator for the processing of personal data. In practice, for example, this means that information on persons checked out of criminal proceedings is being illegally stored. Sensitive information on farce tests and DNA profiles is stored illegally. Personal data are not protected against unauthorised access and biological material research has been carried out without authorisation, either by individuals or by public authorities. It is not the first time it is revealed that the RMI does not comply with the standards of protection. In February 2009, the Data Protection Authority was incidentally informed that bioassays taken at the Forensic Institute were illegally stored and used in research. In the same year, Dagbladet revealed over a whole page that the Forensic Institute had stored DNA samples without a warrant for this, which was described by Minister of Justice Storberget as ‘problematic and unfortunate’. It is the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility of the Forensic Institute – both in 2009 and today. According to VG Nett yesterday, the state council called the University of Oslo when she was introduced to this matter. What did the Council of State do in 2009 when she was introduced to a similar case, and what has the Council of State done after 2009 to rectify this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e229	I fully share the reaction of the representative Höie to the case that I was also familiar with yesterday, and that is a somewhat different matter from the previous one of the Department of Forensics. It is unsustainable – if it is right – that laws and regulations have been broken and that information has been stored illegally. What I did yesterday was to contact the principal at the University of Oslo. At the same time, the Ministry of Knowledge has sent a letter to the university, which is still the head of the Forensic Institute, asking for an explanation. The majority has received a case on the transfer of the entire forensic institute to the Public Health Institute, but it has not yet been dealt with, so it is absolutely correct that it is my responsibility as long as it is at the University of Oslo. There have been other types of issues that have caused problems at the same institute in the past, and this has led us to deal in the past with both the appointment of the Director and the establishment of a Board of the Forensic Institute. This is done to better control and control the activity there, which is, of course, part of a mission from the Ministry of Justice in terms of the DNA register, but which is also a teaching and research activity associated with, of course, the University of Oslo. I hope with the steps that have now been taken, and with the review we get, that we get a good and up-to-date business at the institute. I think it's very right that you move the entire institute out of the university of the Institute of Public Health. But yet it's there, and we're going to follow the matter very closely. We are now awaiting a statement from the university's management and, of course, also from the forensic institute, director and board.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e240	Governments belong to a party that says they're part of the so-called privacy alliance. Then I expect the Council of State to have privacy far ahead in its consciousness when she has contact with her business. In the United Kingdom on 10 November 2010, the Council of State repeatedly said about the management of the RMI: ‘I can assure the representative that the Minister of Justice and I are in constant contact with this matter as well. So there is no lack of contact and I also have good contact with the University of Oslo as responsible for this institute." [[...]] Since this was a great revelation already in 2009, I expect that in the contact that has been very close, according to the Council of State itself – attached to the governance of the RMI, and against the fact that the Council of State represents a party engaged in privacy – privacy has been a central issue. This has been a recurring theme of the requirements, among others. The right has had an examination of the RMI.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e253	Privacy is an overall value of all research. That's my entrance to the control signals we've given to the forensic institute. Now it's not like any of the state councils are involved in the detailed activities of the institutions. We need to be consistent with the Institute's right control signals. In this case, it is of interest to both the Minister of Justice and to me that the mandates carried out by the Institute of Forensics are in order. I have only now become familiar with these accusations through the report made by the Swedish Data Protection Authority. In the past, there have been other kinds of things that we have addressed. So I'm standing by what I've said. Of course, I put privacy extremely high, not only in matters that the Federal Institute of Forensics carries out on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, but also in matters relating to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e262	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e265	The Right Party and the Workers' Party agree on a solid strengthening of privacy as a result of changes in the eco-law. There we have made an agreement on a main principle for all large public and private registers, namely the obligation to log, track down, and the right to access, as well as what is involved in physical security of this type of personal data, electronic security, authorisation of the personnel to have access, and not least strict requirements in relation to the concession. Will the Council of State follow up on the robust strengthening of privacy provided for in this Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e272	It is also for this Council of States to follow up all such legislation and privacy protection. We are now awaiting a statement from the Forensic Institute on the matter on which the Data Protection Authority has written a report. It was essentially the mission that this was to be done under existing legislation, i.e. in a legal, legal way. If there has been a violation of the law, it is very serious. We must then make the necessary sanctions in relation to the review we are now receiving. I can convince the representative that it is important for me to follow up the necessary safeguards for all that has to do with both research and the use of such data, which is so sensitive not only in terms of privacy but also in terms of the possibility of using such data in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e281	Åse Michaelsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e284	I want to go back to the RMI. After all, a number of research projects are being carried out for which the University of Oslo is responsible under the Health Insurance Act and the Data Protection Act. The research is partly based on information acquired by the RMI in connection with police, administrative or private missions. In 2009 it was found that the RMI had started an illegal research project using samples they had stored without authorisation. Oversight in October 2009 revealed that persons who had submitted samples were not properly informed about how the information was to be used. Nor was any request requested from the Data Protection Authority for a number of these research projects. In the past, we have seen that important research into the mammography programme has been at risk due to a breach of data protection requirements. This is not acceptable. The Council of State is responsible for the research. We agree that research needs to be strengthened, especially in the field of health, where research can help to save both life and health. What does the Council of State do to ensure that people have confidence in the protection of privacy in research?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e295	In all research, it is absolutely essential that we have good databases, which we have in many areas, that they be secured in relation to the person and that consent be obtained. It's general. To the extent that there is a breach of this, and that breach comes to the Council of State's table, it reacts, of course. We've done that earlier in the case of exactly the RMI by putting in extra governance measures, and we're doing it this time by giving a reaction that they've taken seriously. I can assure the representative that both in the case of ordinary other registers that have information about different aspects of people's behaviour and about material relating to people, it is absolutely universal and inevitable from my point of view that we should follow the legislation here, and that consent should be given. If this is broken, it must be responded to. I will also do that if it turns out to be correct in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e302	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e305	It is very interesting that the right in this case is very concerned that the innocent are registered. As far as I can see from this matter, there has not been a human error here. There has been a violation of the law, and it has even been the police director's agreement that thousands of people's DNA has been illegally registered, information that can easily be misused. As far as I know, Stortinget was very concerned about securing this when we dealt with the matter of a DNA registry. This shows how fragile such systems are. It also shows that even if we politicians believe that we've guaranteed ourselves against abuse, things like what we saw in the media yesterday may arise. Then simply my questions to the Council of State: what can happen in other matters? And is the Council of State concerned about what she now sees with regard to the so-called guarantees of privacy in the case of the Data Storage Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e312	Claims about who has given permission become part of the studies we are doing now, so I do not want to comment on that. But I understand the seriousness of the representative's questions, and I'm very concerned because we have, thanks to good faith in researchers and research here in the country, many registers and many databases. We know that these are attractive for example. many foreign researchers. I am very concerned that we ensure it in the best possible way, that we review good consent procedures every time data is collected that has to do with people, and that, of course, we must always be preventive and try to prevent data from both being misused and going astray. But I definitely share the concern of the representative. There is a danger that privacy will not be as good if we have systems that do not take proper account of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e317	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e321	This case reveals that creating large databases with information about individuals is not a good idea. If you're going to do it for research, you should at least make sure that there are people who have agreed to be there. Maybe you should simplify your consent with regard to research, and especially with regard to biological material, so that it becomes easy for researchers to see what people have agreed to. Rules broken, errors made. Once you've created a large database that collects information about individuals, we see that it's wrong. Things look good. Have a mind about a warehouse of all the world's good regulations, seas of the Right and the Workers' Party, for example. We've made a lot of legislation on how to do this, we see that it's wrong. Information about people's privacy and the innermost part actually comes out. My question to the Council of State is: Will she make sure that this also happens in research, that we make sure that those who want to be in databases are, and that those who don't want to, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e328	It is a very important question the representative Skei Grande is travelling. We have discussions, especially with regard to biological material and large databases, about providing a good basis for biological and biotechnology research. But for me, it is important that we have clear rules of consent, that we have order in our institutions and in our legislation, so that the persons who provide information about themselves or parts of themselves – if it is biological material – for research, should know what this is all about, and that it is justifiable to do so. That's why we rely on our trust in both the research and the researchers. I know it's great here in Norway compared to other countries, and I'm concerned that we keep that trust. These include: to ensure that we have legislation that is reassuring to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e333	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e336	Then it is time for the Minister of Labour to have a question. In Arendal, I recently met a man in the middle of the 50s. He had started to have some mental problems, he had started drinking, he was having a bad marriage, and he lost his job. But he was one of the lucky ones. He was given a place on a labour market measure, and thanks to it he was helped to master everyday life. Today he is back in full employment, and he saved his marriage – thanks to a labour market measure. In Lillesand, there's a 54-year-old lady. She wasn't as lucky. She was fulfilling her duty. She tried to stand on. She had a real job. Despite the fact that she began to have failing health, she had great job satisfaction. She dreamed of working until retirement and could continue to work through an organized job. But there was nothing in the action box, and the company that she had found was not receiving a grant to hire her. The result is that in the mid-50s a lady is now in social security, permanent social security. Under this government, the number of people with disabilities has increased by nearly 60,000. Today, there are 217 000 people in line for Nav. A new Nav report says that this queue will continue to increase if the government does not put more action in place. This, in turn, will lead to more ports outside of work, and several ends of permanent social benefits. Last time I challenged the Council of State in this Chamber, a few weeks ago, she said it was desirable and useful with several action areas. In spite of this, the government chooses to cut the number of action sites for 2011 – from around the present day. 60,000 and down to an average of 51,200. That means that from the fall there will be a cut of maybe 15,000 a few months. Then it is appropriate to ask the Minister of Labour, who is from the Labour Party, whether she wants to be a Minister of Labour also for those with reduced working capacity and not only for those who can deliver 100 pst. All the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e347	It is nice to hear that a labour market measure has far-reaching beneficial effects for people to save their marriage. I very much believe in labour market measures. This government has a very high level of action, and this government spends a lot more money on action than any other government, because we are now more concerned about having measures that are directly tailored to those who need it – just to make sure that we have sensible measures and not just a lot of measures. I am very concerned that we have to make sure that we do not just deliver in quantity – and do not know if it actually works. That's some of the twist we've done. We have a high level of action, but it is true that we went down somewhat in 2011 — largely based on the fact that there has also been a much more stable labour market and therefore also lower unemployment. Then, as the representative says, we have more queues. That's why we've changed the whole social welfare system and gone to work performance assessment and work clearance. I agree, I want and will work to get more action, but I am very concerned that this needs to be seen in a broader context. We have to try to get more into the ordinary working life, and we have to try to get Nav to work more to get people into the ordinary working life. We have to do two things at once. We must strengthen the action sector, but we must not just base the future of this group on action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e354	I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned with quality, because quality is important. However, quality does not conflict with having more opportunities for action, because it is fully possible to get more places and to get more training courses, so that more people can get back to work — while maintaining quality. I think the Council of State is really turning the whole situation upside down. Because when you refer to a decline in unemployment, it doesn't mean that there are fewer people who need help and who need some help to get back to work. That's the opposite of the statistics. What worries me the most is that the human needs, being able to contribute, being able to improve the quality of life by getting a job, not biting at the Minister of Finance. It seems that the Minister of Labour really agrees. But if it doesn't bite the Minister of Finance, at least you have to be able to see that investing in measures that can get people back to work is going to be a huge economic saving. Therefore, my question is: When should this government look at action places – bet on getting people with disabilities back to work – as an investment instead of a cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e359	That's what this government has done, just by what I'm saying: we're concerned that the places are actually going to work. Then I agree with the representative that you can have many places of those that work, and that's the best. But we've used 2 billion. In 2011, more in action places than we did in 2005, i.e. around that number, and we have far more adapted places. Then there is always a balance – simply – between the amount of money to be spent on action sites, as the Minister of Finance will say, and as I agree with, a balancing of the budget that keeps unemployment down. Because we get an increase in unemployment, although I agree with the representative that these are different groups, there is also a large increase in that group of disabled people, because it is even more difficult for long-term unemployed people to get into the labour market, and then they will quickly get into that group. But we share the concern, and it is important to work for this group to get good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e364	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e367	It is great that Hans has left the unemployment line and entered normal work. It is good that unemployment goes down. But what I think is strange is why it's going to make it difficult for Kari – who needs a little more help to get into the labour market – that Hans gets a job, and that Kari gets fewer places of good quality to choose from. Yes, the government has spent more money than in 2005, but the queues are longer. These are people who want to work in the community. What measures will the Council of State present to the Stortinget, so that we bring down the queues, more people into work, because the goal is probably all people at work – still?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e372	Yeah, the queues are longer. Now I think we're going to trouble those queues a little bit. So these are all the ones that went on the three other social benefits that have now gone over to redundancy. I think we're going to be so honest with ourselves – all of them aren't going into ordinary work. Some of them might need to be left empty. One of Nav's big challenges is to be good at early divorce: who are we going to spend a lot of money on action? Who is going to get the social security they're going to have, and have a disability pension? This is a difficult balance. But I fully agree, we have to work as best we can to see how we get those who are going out either in an organized job or in ordinary work. We need action places, but we also need Nav to work more towards the ordinary working life. We've reduced places this year by 3,800 places. We must not talk as if we have somehow reduced the whole level of action in Norway. And – I repeat myself again – this is an assessment from year to year related to the total budgetary balance sheet whether or not to spend more money on this. But I can just say, I'm following this very carefully, and I'm aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e379	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e383	It is a clear objective that all should use their working capacity into working life, including those with reduced working capacity. We know that six out of ten under 40 years of age who are on permanent disability have a mental disorder. Many of them want to enter the labour market, but they do not get the help they need to get into the labour market. We also know that a VTA site can be very useful for these in a very short period of time, to get help and order of life, to get ahead and into new courses of action. Today the legislation is such that it is first necessary to have been granted permanent disability benefits in order to be entitled to a VTA seat. This means that in many ways people are sent to social security first, to have them locked in a particular measure. Will the Council of State make this much more flexible in the future, so that it can also remove the provision that permanent disability be granted in order to obtain a VTA space, and make it more flexible to help them with mental disorders back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e388	This is a very long discussion that is not really suitable for this form. I totally disagree with the premises. VTA places are currently permanently organised for people who are unable to work in the ordinary working life and who are not required to work in the ordinary working life but who are required to have a good and meaningful offer. That's the VTA places. We have protected them – I would like to stress this – in all the cuts that have been this year. We've protected them, the type of places. To think that through VTA you get a jumpboard into the ordinary working life, I don't think – with respect to reporting. In the case of persons who have been on disability pension for a long time, and their ability to return to normal working life, it is also not a sensible way to use our measures properly. What is the basic thing – and there I fully agree with all those who have asked me questions – is that we need to focus on having the effort related to those who are now on redundancy pay, in order to get them into an organized job and not on disability pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e395	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e398	At school start last year, the government launched the new GIV, a partnership between the school authorities and Nav for more people to complete secondary education. Schools on construction site under the direction of Road Deck have proved to be a very successful measure. This measure has been given to young people, immigrants and long-term unemployed aged 19–40 out of the job queue and has given them a safe job after exams and diplomas. But in January this year it was the end. A twelve-year success story has put an end to this, even the queue of those who want this training offer is long. So I wonder how the Council of State will explain that half a year later, New GIV becomes a bomb stop for School in the construction site, which has proved very effective in providing people with competence and getting them into a safe job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e407	New GIV and Schools on the construction site are projects under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. I don't know the details about School on the construction site and that project. I know you've had some projects under the Municipality of Oslo where you just didn't get enough people, but it doesn't seem like it's this project. I will take it with me, and then I will examine the background for this with the specialist council, but I cannot give any answer now as to why this project did not continue in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e412	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e415	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour a question. A year ago, we were in full swing – we were concluding at this time – with a new IA agreement to reduce sick leave. Some of the instruments could not be implemented due to ICT problems in Nav. On 17 February this year, the Labour and Social Committee met with Nav. It was stated that the situation on the ICT side is still dramatic. You're going to spend $150 million. kr every year to maintain a system that is already so damaged that it is in the process of doing so together. Information is also available that the ICT system is not able to deal with new policy reforms such as: new disability benefits. We know that proposals for new disability benefits will be submitted to the Stortinget in the spring, that they can be finalised during the autumn of 2011 and that this can be implemented on a case-by-case basis for people from 1 January 2012. The problem is that you don't have computer systems that handle it in Nav, it came out at that meeting. It seems that the Progress Party is dramatic, and it may have unfortunate consequences for a number of users. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Is the Council willing to postpone the introduction of new disability benefits until computer systems in Nav have been put in place to handle it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e422	I will present a bill on a new disability pension and old-age pension for the disabled, and in connection with that presentation I will also take a position on the date of implementation of the law. So I'll take that. What I can say, is that I'm like the representative very concerned about the ICT system in Nav. Here we are in a situation that I believe, to a large extent, the whole of Norwegian society, and for a long time political Norway, must take responsibility for us coming in. It was tried to renew this as early as the 1990s, but it failed. But now Nav has had a clear follow-up to its ICT systems and followed it in a plan, and they implemented the large pension ICT system within the timescales and within the economic framework to be implemented. Now you're working on this big, new ICT system, which will sort of sew together the whole Nav and really implement the reform. It's a huge project. It should not be beached, as one did with TRESS-90 in its time, and we are now working on the quality assurance procedures that the Ministry of Finance has, i.e. KS1 and KS2. I believe that we will be done with KS1 in not very long, and I can guarantee in this room that it will not be on money when it comes to having an operational and good ICT system in Nav. Then I come back to the question of when to implement the disability law when I submit it. But I can say that I have also been in contact with Nav, and it is not that things in this area are not possible. The question is always what's wise to do, given the assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e431	It has also emerged from Nav's side, and I believe that the Council of State is also informed that new computer systems are being planned, that this planning will only take too long in 2012, and it will also take time to put new computer systems in place. The solutions shall be hatched, further tested, so that they function towards the users who depend on the different services. We have seen that the Riksaudition, through several national audit reports, has pointed out weaknesses in Nav, that users do not get their legitimate benefits in a timely manner. There is something the Progress Party is very concerned about, ensuring that all users who have requirements and have a right to a performance are given it in due time, and also get the right performance. I also hope that the Council of State agrees with me. And then the question is, When can we expect ICT solutions to be in place to deal with new disability problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e436	As the representative also says, the National Audit Office has been concerned about this. I've answered the Riksrevision, and I've answered the Riksrevision that the time when you can imagine a completely completed operational computer system, will be even closer to the end of this decade than the beginning of the decade, which we are now in. Then I ask for an understanding that this is, as the representative himself also says, a very large project. I don't share the view at the time when you want to start planning, because we're also going to be done with KS1, hopefully not for very long. Then you start with KS2, which is a big process, but a different process, because then you have at least chosen a kind of model. When it comes to this system making users not getting their benefits, I don't quite share that view. Nav has a very high priority for users to get their benefits. What has gone beyond is what the Riksrevision has also pointed out that the good control systems are not built within the ICT systems, so they need to spend a lot of time on the control.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e445	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e449	As the Council of State itself says, this is not a new challenge. Those who remember the TRESS-90 disaster know that the systems that Nav is now operating with are the heirs of the Reich Ironworks and the Old Aetat, and create great problems. In fact, the National Audit Office has even gone so far as to say that ICT systems hinder the implementation of the objective of the Nav reform, i.e. better coordination, better efficiency, better control and not least better follow-up and proper follow-up of individual users. So that's what the Council of State is saying, now it's not going to be on money to get this ICT system in place. But it's not just money that's needed, it also needs a political focus. This government has been in power since 2005, and there has been insufficient political focus, and there has not been sufficient resources available to address these challenges from that period. Why is it that this government has prioritised ICT bets so low that it is still such that the ICT system hinders the implementation of the Nav reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e456	With respect to reporting, I totally disagree with those premises. Nav has implemented its ICT strategy plan in line with what Nav had been notified by the Council of State, and this has also been agreed. First, you have to put in place the systems that were already there, so that they can talk to each other, and then you have to put in place a new pension scheme. It's a big deal, and you've done it within the time you've had. But it was quite clear that you could not start the whole third, the big ball – the big system, which is not necessary to achieve the Nav reform, but to get the Nav reform out of the way – at the same time as the pension reform. Then you wouldn't get to this. Then you can always discuss whether or not you should have postponed the launch of the Nav reform pending this. It has also been discussed in this room and agreed not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e461	Hairy Rivers – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e464	It makes me a little worried when the Council of State says that there should be no money to implement the ICT system in Nav. There are some examples in the public sector that the introduction of these types of systems has cost a lot, including: due to poor cost control. There are also examples in the private sector, in the VPS and in the Central Banks Payments Centre, of the successful implementation of systems that are quite similar in their architecture to that of the Nav system. My question is this: What will the Minister do to prevent this project from becoming a project where costs have run wild in the context of the implementation of a new system, and will the Minister take the initiative to look at successful implementations of the corresponding system in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e471	I can assure you that those who work on this are looking at and taking lessons from what you have done in other projects. So in terms of the security systems we have to work on these systems, people from the private sector are also inside this. It's in the system that the Ministry of Finance has, and that we use here. Then I register that we are in such a situation that we say, yes, thanks, both parts, and that is going to happen quickly! It can't happen fast enough to get a new computer system, but it has to be under total cost control. The two things are hard to reconcile. That's why I'm very clear that here you have to make the assessments in advance that you have to do. I will do my part to make it work at the pace it should, but for – just as the representative was concerned about – to be sure that you have good cost control all the way, planning must also take some time. I stress that through the pension ICT system, Nav has implemented a system that far exceeds what is available in the private sector, and they did so on time and within the financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e480	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e483	I have to smile a little when I hear that we are discussing the postponement of the miscarriage reform. It has been exposed up to several times. I really think it would be pleasant if the government could blame it on that it was just the ICT system that was the problem, and not internal disputes. The ICT system is in many ways a key element of the reform. The council said instead that it was trying to fix the computer system in the 1990s, but it was not possible. After all, it's been 20 years, and you might have to put in place a new computer system a long time ago. I can agree with the Council of State that several parties can share responsibility for it. But I have to say I had the councillor to try out as «Undercover Boss» so she got to see what reality is actually in the Nav office. She could go a little disguised in the Nav offices and see how the ICT system works. For what it's about, MS-Dos-based applications – black screen, green font. Is it strange that there are some challenges to getting the systems to talk together and make Nav succeed? My question is really just: When does the system come – or shouldn't we at least have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e494	I can assure you that I have been out and seen those systems – not ‘undercover’, but I got to see them anyway. We almost don't have to spend time updating those systems. We fully agree on that. But I stress that I'm under pressure, first to do it quickly, and second to make it financially sound. We're going to do both, and the plan is there. I'll be done with KS1 in a minute. I don't want to give a timeline, because we need to be sure that we have several alternatives that are assessed by those who have the right thing to do, and we need to make sure that we get a good and proper process, so that not me or my successor – who it might be – have to stand here sometime and again show that you couldn't do this in a good way, and that you went on a cost run. Now we have to do this properly. I'm going to press that we're working fast enough against what's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e499	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e502	The left entered 3 billion. extra for the budget to be used to advance this project. I think that we don't have this in place is one of the missing innovations in the public sector that really help pull the carpet off under one of the basics of our welfare state. But now there is a settlement in Stortinget, where it is said that all visits to the staff files on Nav are to be logged. The Left is a good idea. What I'm asking is, when does the Council of State think this can be done, and if it's going to be done quickly, how much is it going to cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e507	Just first of all, with the input of money: no matter how much money we had to put into this, we don't get it much faster – just so we agree on it. The money is not crucial for when we get a good ICT system in place in Nav. We need money, but there may be so much money going on here and now, I'm not going to get anything faster with a proper and good plan. That's the one. The second is that I register – and think it is good – what has been agreed upon. I'm going to work fast to get it done. But you can't get a time indication from me here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e513	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e516	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. It is tempting to designate this government as the successor or successor government in the field of transport. Earlier today, we have heard the Minister for Transport have had to defend terrible maintenance with great delays, which for road users are both dangerous and costly. At NRK yesterday we heard about car workshops that had long waiting lists due to damage caused by bad roads, without the government wanting to take any real action. One vote, among other things: down the maintenance fund proposal. Then we also experience that new roads, such as the E18 in Eastfold, are destroyed only after six months, and that due to the lack of standards and demands for what is good roads – deficits again. E6 in the Gudbrand valley is an example of a faster growth in traffic than the construction of the road. I have to remind the Council of State that the Right will have narrow four-field road through the entire Gudbrand valley realized as a OPS project. The last area I want to mention is the expansion of middle parts. Here, the government is literally in arrears for miles. The right has pointed this out earlier and has put considerable budgetary strengths in our alternative budget. The government and the Council of State say that the middle parties alone do not solve the problem of the fatal accidents. No, of course they don't, but it will at least take a number of the hundreds of meeting accidents because we don't have middle parts on our roads. I would argue that the examples I have mentioned show that the government is pursuing an old-fashioned transport policy and is not willing to use new tools and tools to meet today's challenges. Is it not soon that the Council of State sees that the transport sector is over-ripe for innovation and thereby getting better, safer roads faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e527	The best way to get safe and secure is to strengthen your permissions. It's done. 100 B.C.E. kr more for transport than for the previous national transport plan will make a difference. So the question is, what is it that today's government needs to focus so much on the aftermath that I have to ask the State Road Service to consider how much is going to be spent in 2011 to stop the decay? Today's government is not the problem. It's actually decades of neglect – and includes a government that Øyvind Halleraker's whole heart has supported before. So for the examples that are used here. Everyone voted for one race on the Øyer-Thirt. What was the question for the government then – that was before I took over as Minister of Transport – was: Should we start now, with the plans that were ahead, or plan two runs in the longer term and rather in that tunnel put in traffic monitoring, i.e. speed control, and rumbling fields? The last one will be done, and two runs will also be in place before traffic increases. And then I want to remind you that what's the main point right now is to realize the plans that we're doing, within the funds that are at our disposal. So it's going to be better in Norway every month.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e538	With all due respect, I would argue that after six years – and six years in politics is a long time – this government should stand for its own policy and thus grow up. I want to take one of the areas that I went into, middle parts. It's been fixed time and time again that midwayers save lives. So the government is, despite the government's boasts, 500 million. kr for deficits in the road safety sector in own budgets. This naturally affects the development of middle-parties, which are so important to avoid the tragic meeting accidents. So the right has two years in a row prioritized most of their investment in the transport budget just to midpoints, by 1.4 billion. kr. Will the government now take this seriously and get up to date with NTP by supporting the Right’s proposal for the development of middle parts on Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e547	We're up-to-date with our own plan when it's mid-range – 750 km with mid-term measures in the ten-year period, of the 250 km with mid-terms. It is also true that, when it comes to mid-term measures, otherwise we are far ahead of what was the goal, the status, after 2010. So I have to remind you that 30 pst. of the unclosed largely due to road conditions, 70 pst. relationship with the driver. In contrast to the Right, this government takes this seriously: a broad approach, safer road, safer vehicle-related measures and, not least, proposals relating to the responsibilities it carries on these roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e554	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e557	Four months ago, State Council cut Meltveit Kleppa a string on new E18, the route Askim–Spydeberg. The mo market is nearby, and the mountain and valley tracks we have often driven there. The path that now emerges on this route makes the other mountain and valley nearly pale. The state road authority estimates that they may have to dig up for 1.3 billion. kr. In the South, where we built the way of public-private financing, the contractor also had to do the work again, and after two months it was fixed. The maintenance is within this type of public-private cooperation contract, and one is held responsible for 20 years afterwards. Then we have to do a real basic job. Is the Council of State mature to assess public-private cooperation in new construction sections, so that we can at least minimize the damage and avoid this type of accident – if I should call it – or scandals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e566	Let me repeat, just to be absolutely sure that the Right and Government have the same starting point when it comes to this E18 distance, that it's unacceptable. This shall not happen. When that happens, we're going to have to give the state's travel agency the opportunity to check more closely what happened and what it needs to do to get a safer E18 back. So to different forms of funding. In the current four-year period, today’s funding is constant. So these are tolls and/or local contributions and/or state resources. I could have picked up some government funds first. Then we look at different other forms of funding in connection with the new national transport plan. But I have to remind you that OPS cooperation is also to be paid. We're paying for the three projects now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e573	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e576	After six years, we should start taking responsibility for the policies that are being pursued. I get a little provoked when the Council of State brags homelessly about building 250 km in the middle of the next ten years. Sweden builds 200 km a year. So that's not very ambitious and very good. But what I really want to challenge the state council because she boasts that you are now about to stop the fallout on the road network is: I record that the state road authorities say they will not be able to stop the fallout in 2011, and that they were unable to stop it in 2010. But the problem is that the same state council and the same government sent over 17 150 km, of which very much was in incredibly bad condition – I almost want to say in a shitty constitution, president – to someone else and let them take responsibility. Does not the Council of State not see that this government is also responsible for cleaning up the downfall of the county road network? What does the Council of State think of that? Will the government make sure to stop the decay there? Or is it not so dangerous with the expiration of the county road network, which is important for the regions and important for the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e583	It should be possible to establish the situation on the road standard without having to resort to the use of words that are not appropriate in Stortinget. I think there are enough examples of roads that are bad, so you don't have to use bad words!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e587	This government takes responsibility for every day of the government period, but in addition we take responsibility for decades of neglect in the road sector. That's why we're now cleaning up in the previously missing maintenance. That is why the State Road Service has been asked to report how much they need in 2011 to stop the aftermath, so that we can recover the decay, and so that we can concentrate on building new roads. When it applies to middle parts, I have now asked the State Road Service to enter the road network we have today. These are the ones that need to be further planned in order to be more flexible compared to the requirements of middle parts today. Then we take responsibility for the county road network. It shows the funds transferred to the county roads, and it shows our close contact with the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e596	Borghild Tenden - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e599	I would like to continue where I left off, because I did not feel that the Council of State answered entirely my question about the independence of the new roadside supervision. The other supervision we have is under the responsibility of the department. The Air Safety Authority is subject to the Ministry of Transport and advertises on its website for independence. The Railway Authority is bound by the Ministry of Transport. Last year we were able to read that ‘Railway Monitoring Unit (NSB) is faltering and threatening reactions’. That is the way an oversight should work. But roadside supervision is directly under the direction of the road. Can the Minister of Transport explain the logic of this to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e606	The main point of roadside surveillance is to strengthen road safety. The selection that worked out about the need for roadside supervision, and in the event of its organisation, divided into two, several, and a minority. They also looked at the costs of supervision, not just the tasks. The tasks agreed to the selection. How the organization was supposed to be, they disagreed, just assuming that this is 50-100 million. kr. Is it an independent supervision that will guarantee road safety here, or is it a combination of the laws and rules that we already have in this field, plus a supervision that is directly under the direction of the road? I chose the last one. I'd rather spend 100 million. kr on other and more efficient road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e613	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e625	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives Per Roar Bredvold and Oskar J. Grimstad respectively to the Minister for the Environment and Development are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative of Torgair Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been withdrawn. Question 12, by Mr Torgair Tåldal, representative of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e642	I would like to put a question to the Minister of Finance: ‘For agricultural enterprises with a high need for short-term involvement of foreign seasonal workers, the cash limit of NOK 10000 creates both problems and is unclear as to what is involved. Difficulty is created because many people want wages paid in cash and banks refuse to open accounts for 3 to 4 weeks' exposure. Furthermore, it is unclear whether part or all or nothing can be spent if partial payments are made in cash. Will the Council of State take action to clarify and simplify this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e656	I see that there may be a need for clarification in the practice of the 10 000-kroner limit for cash payment. The purpose of the plan adopted is to reduce the use of cash in society because it is believed to be an important contribution to reducing several types of financial crime, including the payment for undeclared work. The ability of tax authorities to track payments through control would make tax exemptions more difficult. In the preparatory work of the law, it is noted that exemptions from the provisions on bank payment as a right of deduction would give a less clear rule and allow circumvention. I therefore believe that it should be such that it may be relevant except if in very special situations it is practically difficult to adapt to this requirement, but I believe that this is not relevant in the case in question. During the consultation of the legislation adopted last autumn, I was made aware of some of the issues of foreign seasonal workers being outlined in the question. The applicant specifically asks about this by opening the account in the bank. It follows from the Financial Contracts Act that banks cannot refuse to open a customer relationship without objective reasons. The customer's foreign status is not an actual reason. This is particularly stated in the preparatory work of the law, and I therefore assume that the banks fulfil their obligations under the law, so that no obstacles arise that make the arrangement unworkable for foreign seasonal workers. Then there's an opportunity to transfer money, pay, to a bank abroad. If one does, the condition for payment via the bank will also be met, so that this solution can also be deducted. With regard to the application of the amount limit of NOK 10000, the starting point of the Act is that, if the amount limit is exceeded, there is no right of deduction unless the payment is made via a bank. So it is not possible to pay until less than NOK 10 000 in cash and the rest via bank. However, in such a case, it will only be appropriate to refuse a deduction for the part of the payment that has not been made via the bank. I would like to ask the Tax Directorate to provide more detailed information and clarification of this in an appropriate way. This could be done, for example, by: be made through the websites of the Directorate-General for Taxation, and later by updating tools such as: the annual Equation ABC or by other means, in order to be made clear to those who are to benefit from this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e671	I would like to thank you for your answer. That's at least half a win. Because you have actually interpreted it so that you did not receive a deduction for the total amount when a small part was paid in cash. So that's an important clarification. But at the same time, I find it pointless to maintain that for the part that is paid out in cash, you do not receive a deduction. We know that wages are subject to reporting, and that's full overview, there's receipts, and everything's fine. So I find it pretty meaningless that not that part is also included in what gets deductible, and I want to ask the finance minister to take it back. In fact, it is a real problem that many foreign seasonal workers come to Norway. They need cash to live, and it takes time to create a bank account. I tried myself, I called the bank and asked, and you can't create an account that's available in a couple of weeks. I want to ask the Minister of Finance to take it back and maybe resolve it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e678	It's good that we're moving the world forward, to say it like that, so you're also seeing if it's possible to practice what the Storting decides. In this case, there has also been a rather long transition period from the law decision itself to the law's entry into force, so there have been certain possibilities to adapt to this. But as I also said in my answer: If it turns out that it is practically difficult to get this done, of course, I am willing to take it with me and see if you have to make certain relaxations in this arrangement. But the starting point is very clear: it's about bringing down the use of cash, as part of combating, among other things. economic crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e683	The objective, of combating economic crime, is that we agree in and on, but this is about creating quite significant challenges for a part of Norwegian business that depends on short-term seasonal workers, and there are really no other solutions for them. That brings me to the second part of the question, and it's the $100,000 limit that's set. It is, of course, very low; Norway operates at a level far below that of both the country in Europe and other countries. And as I said, such things as pay are subject to reporting, and we have full control over other channels. So I might, in the light of some of the problems that have arisen, encourage the Minister of Finance to also look at the amount limit, so that we are more in line with what is happening in the rest of Europe. Because we really belong to Europe!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e690	Now, this system has worked for a few months – it was adopted in the autumn of 2009 – so I think I'll let this work for a while to see if it brings the practical challenges and problems that the representative Gundersen points to. So you'll see if you have to make certain assumptions on the basis of experience, but you have to give this order a chance before you change. I think it's pretty important to do it that way. One point here is also with regard to the foreign seasonal workers – at least on the edges of the country where I live – that it is often the same people who come back year after year, so it is probably possible to have a longer-term relationship with those in agriculture. It's probably a little bit more under the sky than just problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e701	The question is as follows: ‘The summer of 2008 killed a man in a motorcycle accident in Akershus. Recently the trial started where the relatives claimed that the poor quality of the road was the cause of the accident. A report from the State Road Service accident analysis group for Eastern Europe points out that what will have the greatest effect on reducing mortality rates is physical conditions. The report calculates the road authority’s ability to reduce the mortality to 62 pst. and the potential of road users to 34 pst. What will the Council of State do to increase the liability of the road owner for road damage caused by bad roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e710	The representative of Sortevik mentions a tragic accident. She makes an impression. I can't comment on it any closer. Accidents are now being dealt with by the courts. The State Road Service has examined all fatal road accidents since 2005, i.e. a much wider basis than the question put by the representative Sortevik. Experience so far shows that very rarely is only one contributing cause of accidents. On average, there are three to four causes of serious traffic accidents. It is also true that even if a road accident has occurred, the consequences can be mitigated by implementing roadside measures and vice versa. The question of the responsibilities of the various road traffic actors, including: roadkeeper, it's so complex. In its 2010/03 report, the State Disaster Commission for Transport made a recommendation that addresses what I understand is the essence of the question to the representative of Sortevik. In its recommendation, the Commission asks the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the State Road Administration and the county authorities, to consider the introduction of criteria for defence-related security on the public road, based on an overall assessment of risks. On the basis of this recommendation, I have asked the State Road Administration to make an assessment of the criterion for what can be considered a defensive security state. Such an assessment must be carried out before any further discussion of responsibilities for roadkeepers and vegetates is relevant. Vegetate assessments will lead to reasonable speed. I want to see how such an assessment should be followed up. The story will be properly briefed. At the same time, let me point out that the road manager has been given the task of preparing the creation of a proper roadside supervision. It shall be operational from the first half of 2012. Such supervision is, in my opinion, an important contribution to the overall road safety performance of the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e723	Thank you for the answer, which at least has a positive approach to the issue. Nor do I go into the specific accident that is for legal treatment, but there is a natural way to address the problem on a general basis. It is the case that the Road Code lays down rules on the maintenance and operation of roads, but does not mention the responsibility of the person who owns the road and is responsible for maintenance and operation. The Road Traffic Act applies to all traffic by motor vehicle, and there are a number of requirements for both motor vehicle and driver, but not a single requirement for the owner of the road. I wonder if the Council of State considers this to be reasonable. I'm recording that you have to start a process to look at a minimum standard, it's the Progress Party happy. But regardless of that, the law is free of liability for the weighing company. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the person who owns the road should be entirely free of legal and financial liability for faults and road defects resulting in road damage to the road user?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e734	Now let's start with a round of orders that are given and what can be considered a defensive security state. When it comes to liability, there is no doubt that road law imposes a responsibility for maintaining the road, on road owners. That's why we have the criterion for both maintenance and operation. So the question is whether it's a legal responsibility, and how far it goes. There is something I would like to come back to when this question is explained in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e741	Thank you again for your answer. First follow-up: can the Council of State indicate a time frame for the work she mentions? Follow-up No two: There are, as I explained, two main laws that relate to road and road traffic, and that is the legal law that applies. So there is a total absence of legal responsibility for the person who owns the road, but there are a number of very clear demands for those who use the road. The question is whether this is not a clear bias, and whether it is not necessary to ensure users more clearly against accidents – we have heard questions and answers and the exchange of lines earlier today and unfortunately know that we have a road network in Norway that has some bad standard – because there are actually physical errors on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e750	First, there are often several reasons for an accident. Secondly, I think that the very best way to secure them is to ensure a maintenance that at any time provides a safe road, and to set clear requirements in relation to quality, so that one avoids e.g. the copies that we have now seen from a recent time, unacceptable conditions on the new road. When it comes to the time aspect of the work that the State Road Service is about to do, I have to stick to the expression fairly quickly. It means pretty fast, and then I'll come back with a more precise timing of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e779	The questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e786	The question is as follows: ‘COSMOS is an infrastructure project with the aim of deploying marine observatories outside the Western Seabed and Svalbard. The project is based, among other things, on: the universities of Tromsø, Bergen and Oslo, and Sintef and the Institute for Marine Research. COSMOS will become a major, high-tech and scientific project that will consolidate Norway’s position as leading countries in marine research and expertise. Application for funding is pending at the Research Council. Will the State Council contribute to the realisation of the COSMOS project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e795	I agree with the representative of Warloe that it is important to maintain Norway's strong position as a marine research nation. At the same time, I believe that the representative agrees with me that it is important to ensure the distinction between politics and science. Government and grubbing-up have established their own funding scheme for research infrastructures. 280 million. kr from the return on the research fund is earmarked for equipment and distributed by the Research Council upon application. In the first round, applications are assessed only on the basis of scientific quality by international experts. In the second round, applications that are scientifically sound are considered according to national strategic importance as well. A National Roadmap for Research Infrastructures for Quality Assuranced Investment Ready Projects has also been established. As the representative of Warloe says, the COSMOS consortium has an application within the Research Council for support for its project. As politicians, we should not interfere in the Research Council's quality assessment of applications. When the application procedure is over, we will receive an answer as to whether the project has been assessed to be so good that it will receive an allocation from the infrastructure scheme as early as this year. Alternatively, we can get the answer that the project has been assessed to maintain such high quality that it enters the Norwegian research infrastructure roadmap as an investment-ready project, but that the Research Council cannot give priority to allocation within the framework of the year’s budget. There is also a chance that the project will be assessed to have qualitative shortcomings which will require the consortium to come back with a new and improved application at the next call. So now I can't say anything more about the COSMOS project, especially. What I can say about, however, is COSMOS and similar projects in general. COSMOS is an example of Norwegian infrastructure projects which are also potential Norwegian nodes in so-called distributed infrastructures on the European Roadmap for Research Infrastructure. Participation in this European cooperation, ESFRI, is of great importance to Norway as a research nation. The ESFRI cooperation will provide Norwegian researchers with access to the best infrastructure in Europe, and it will give foreign researchers access to infrastructure in Norway, with the potential for increased internationalisation of Norwegian research. ESFRI's up-to-date roadmap now contains 38 infrastructure projects so large that they require cooperation between European countries. Norway is or has been involved in the preparatory phase of 21 of these projects. Apart from the planned neutron radiation source in Lund, the European Spallation Source, all projects in which Norway is represented are so-called distributed infrastructures, i.e. infrastructures where cooperation is envisaged for a single European headquarters managing joint functions and access to infrastructure on behalf of a number of national nodes which are reopened and made available to the best researchers in Europe through a single portal. I am somewhat surprised that the Right, by asking this question, wants the Council of State to be actively involved in an application for treatment at the Norwegian Research Council. It is very difficult to understand why direct political intervention is required in a project that has been the responsibility of the Norwegian Research Council to deal with. I have full confidence that the Research Council will provide a sound assessment of the quality of this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e808	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although she may have gone a long way in problematizing that a party is asking a question like this. Of course, I – and the Right – have full confidence in the Research Council’s ability to assess these types of projects. In my opinion, there is still reason to raise the matter here, because the Research Council has – as the Council of State said – a relatively limited amount at its disposal. 280 million. kr is the amount shown in the 2011 budget for investments in research infrastructure. The COSMOS project alone has an application of 188 million. kr, and it is quite obvious that the funds will probably not be able to extend. In my opinion, this strategically is such an important project for Norway as porting that it may be relevant for the Council of State and the Ministry to engage in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e813	I am still surprised that the representative from the Right believes that the Council of State will interfere with the professional priorities of the Research Council. Now you sit and get a professional overview of this project in competition with consortia in medicine, clinical research, bioinformatics, climate monitoring, language and social data, just to mention some other of those competing on these funds. It is, of course, my job to ensure that there is sufficient funding and that we grant research funding so that we can implement these important projects, but it is not my job to prioritise on a technical basis within the projects under consideration by the Research Council. There I strongly disagree with the representative, who believes that I should intervene in this process. I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e818	I have not asked whether the Council of State can interfere in the scientific evaluation of this project by the Research Council, but whether, if the Research Council makes a positive recommendation on the project, she can help to achieve it. In my opinion, it is quite obvious that this project is important for Norway for many reasons. We have the assumptions to realize it. It may be part of a larger European project, and there will probably also be a need for political impetus in view of cooperation with other countries. I can mention to the Council of State that a seminar was held on this project in Bergen last week, where representatives of the German Ministry of Research were also present and spoke very positively. Now we know that the Council of State will meet its German colleague in Berlin on 12 May, and it could have been interesting if this topic was raised as a possible German-Norwegian cooperation project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e827	There are quite a number of projects that my German colleague thinks are important, and which I also think are important, in our cooperation. I want to mention, among other things, various activities on Svalbard, which also go beyond this. It would be quite strange if I were to intervene in the priority that the Research Council is going to do here, in order, if necessary, to produce a project that someone thinks is more important than, for example, a project. equivalent consortium-based projects in the fields of medicine, bioinformatics, etc. It's completely impossible to know what's most important here when you're looking for a professional assessment to see what the quality of a project is. I want to distance myself from that way of responding to the Research Council's priorities, but of course, I want to work all the time to ensure that we have extended and increased research frameworks so that we can accommodate more projects that are important to Norway. Today we have a good budget of 280 million. for infrastructure. We've also fought for it. I think it's pretty important, and I hope we can use it in a good way, but I don't want to intervene to prioritize one particular project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e840	‘One of the main reasons for the high school dropout is lack of apprenticeship after leaving school. Despite the fact that there are, in some cases, many employees in job categories with a professional background in the departments and agencies, fewer apprentices are admitted to the country than in the private sector. What will the Council of State do to increase the number of apprenticeship places by the Ministry of Knowledge with its underlying establishments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e847	Work on multiple learning places and increased implementation in secondary education is a high priority. Completed secondary education is the most appropriate platform to be equipped to participate in the labour market. Good trade union workers are the prerequisite for a sustainable and well-functioning society and business. This is why it is an important job for the government to provide both high quality training and that many people choose vocational training. There will be a great need for skilled labour in the future, both in the private and public sectors. It is important that central government takes its part in the responsibility for more places of learning. In 2010, the Ministry of Knowledge and the FAD carried out a survey of the potential of several apprentices in all central government establishments. The survey shows, with some reservations, that there is a potential for more apprentices: about half of the state enterprises reported an increase. In order to manage the activities of the central government, the government decided for 2011 to include a pooling of the business letters with the aim of increasing the number of apprentices. In the letters of assignment to universities and colleges, it was requested that the number of apprentices at the institutions should be increased in comparison with 2010. The number of apprentices by subject shall be set out in the annual reports. In the light of the survey carried out, I would like to address the matter specifically with those institutions that have a relatively low target on the number of apprenticeships compared to other universities and colleges of the same size, and of course ask them to review their assessment of the possibilities for increasing the number of apprenticeships. I would also like to highlight that there are some who are doing this well, and they are going to get praise. Universities and colleges which have admitted many apprentices shall be recognised for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e858	I am pleased that the Council of State sends a positive signal, but it should only be lacking, all the time SV long wanted to legislate for the right to apprenticeship space. So the question is, what kind of concrete action does the Council of State expect to take so that it is actually possible to verify the efforts that the government is now saying are about to take, so that we can measure the results concretely on the actions that have been taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e865	I mentioned that I would follow up on the reporting provided by the institutions, on the number of apprenticeships in next year's report, which is a governance document in relation to the institutions. So through this I want to consider further measures where there is a shortage of apprentices – where they do not deliver well enough. The aim must be to increase the number of apprentices in central government. I think it is very timely that that question is raised, I am happy about it – but here we have a necessary report that needs to be done before we can go more concretely to work. It's not just useful with general calls. We have to get into the individual institution and motivate the individual institution to pick up more apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e870	Your fellow state councillor, Trond Giske, has gone a long way not only in encouraging, but has been quite clear that state-owned companies have to include more apprentices. It's a signal that goes even further than what the state council is giving here today. It is true that at both colleges and universities — e.g. many technical departments – it would be quite natural for one to have a large intake of apprentices, at least bigger than today. So the question is, will the Council consider going as far as Gishe, to be even clearer about the time that comes, that this should follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e877	Yes, I understood it so that I said that my goal is to get more apprentices. Of course, I would encourage the institutions for which I am responsible to address more. But I know that there's someone who's been better and done it, while there's others who need that encouragement more than others, and that's the little shade I'd like to have. But of course, I want them to bring up more apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e886	Then I will ask the Minister for Research and Education the following questions: ‘NOCUT, the national quality body for education has an important function. They shall ensure, through professional assessment and close follow-up, the quality of training provision. However, several feedback points to the fact that it is almost impossible for new entrants to pass through the loop and receive treatment of their application. NOCUT requires evidence that all requirements have been met and can be demonstrated before processing applications. The same applies to extensions requiring new facilities. Does the Council of State consider that the practice of NOKUT provides sufficient room for development and re-establishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e895	I agree with the representative Harberg that there should be room for development and re-establishment in the Norwegian education system, but of course this cannot be at the expense of quality. There are also regular institutions that receive accreditation, both as an institution and by their education services. Therefore, I do not see that there is any evidence that we do not allow the development that is proper for quality reasons. As the representative is familiar with, the function of NOKUT is to ensure that the training provided in Norway is of high quality. This applies to both post-secondary and post-secondary education. NOCUT has established standards and requirements to ensure professional quality and follows established procedures for examining applications for accreditation of new study offers. NOW is an independent body that makes its assessments of what is qualitatively good enough. That's something I can't or don't want to interfere with. Of course, each institution is responsible for its application and for meeting the requirements laid down. The requirements are clear and easily accessible, both for institutions and for those who may be interested. It should therefore not be a surprise to anyone what it takes to get a study or an institution accredited. During a period, we saw that many institutions expected so much guidance from NOKUT to get their application approved that it required a disproportionate amount of resources from case handlers in NOKUT. There was a NOCUT scheme that could not live with, and therefore now more responsibility for the institutions has been taken into account. It is a recognised international principle of quality assurance and accreditation that all established requirements must be documented and fulfilled before accreditation and final approval can be granted. This is to ensure that the quality is as high as expected. Accreditation is given for the training offer so that it is available at the time of approval. Accreditation is not granted retrospectively, nor can it be granted on the condition that many conditions will subsequently be put in place. Does the representative Harberg really believe that Norway should have a system where study offers and institutions are approved and accredited without being sufficiently quality assured? As I mentioned, a number of study offers and several new educational institutions have recently been approved. In higher education, mention can be made of, for example: Westerdals School of Communication, Norwegian Children's Book Institute, Nordic Institute for Scene and Studio and the Academy of Writing Arts. In addition, a number of new study services at existing institutions are accredited. So there are many people who get the approval through NOKUT, and I therefore believe that NOKUT's practice both ensures high quality and allows for the development and establishment of new studies and institutions. I believe that we should allow NOW to do what they can, namely to ensure and develop just the quality of vocational education and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e912	I thank you for the answer, but I just want to make it clear that this does not apply to the new ones who are in place, but it is the new ones who do not seem to be in place and have their application processed. It is true that if you are going to start a new educational institution, you have to prove that employees are in place before the application is processed. Locations shall be established and in place. Results must be documented before starting. Universities already established experience that the application process is being complicated because they have not established the extension of areas before the application is considered. It would be impracticable to initiate all of this before an authorisation has been obtained for what will form the basis for the investments. Doesn't the Council of State see that it's a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e919	In fact, this Council of States considers it irresponsible to grant accreditation to an institution that has not come so far that they have been able to show how they will conduct their education — both at practical level and in terms of content. I think the representative Harberg and I can agree that there might be some limits to how many different educational institutions we're going to have here in the country, even at a higher level. At least it's my responsibility to make sure that the ones we have, and the ones we might get into as new institutions, are of very high quality. It must then be difficult to establish, and demands must be made, for example: such matters as the representative mentioned. So I think it's a good division of labour that we have an institution that's going to take care of the quality, and therefore also accreditation on the professional basis that we've set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e926	I can assure the Council of State that we have common interests. That's what I started my question with: the importance of NOKUT and the quality of education. Nevertheless, situations arise where new offers can be established. The University of South Aviation School is as much alternative as possible. They first submitted an application to establish flight training. The application was dealt with, and some things were pointed out that had to be done. Then they applied for air traffic controller training, and they were clearly informed that such an application could not be processed because the same things were not in place. When they then referred to the first application that had been processed, they got the answer: Yes, but it was wrong, we should not have done that. This is to keep the institutions fooled. These are the people who have been to the NOKUT application course. Will the Council of State consider a two-stage approach which may approve the professional so that it is appropriate to proceed with employment and investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e935	It was okay to know which institution this was about – I was a little in doubt about it. My assessment of this is also how many places in Norway we are going to have that kind of education. However, there are clearly technical requirements for an institution, and those are the requirements that NOCUT should consider as part of its work. I don't have any plans to go into NOKUT's handling of such matters right away, but I can well see through what has happened to this particular matter to see if there is anything that is in conflict with what you might call common people's manner in dealing with such matters. I only have the word of the representative Harberg for what is supposed to have happened here, but I can go through the matter and see if there is any reason to look at the process around it, but I will not go into the qualitative professional criteria of NOKUT – it is entirely a responsibility for an independent accreditation and quality assurance institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e953	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e960	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Constantly fewer young people want to become farmers, i.e. self-employed in food production. This is a trend that has been going on for a long time. Does the Council of State see that we have a faulty agricultural policy that does not encourage today's youth to invest in this profession with the opportunities that could exist here?'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e969	The representative Bredvold does not say where he has retrieved his information from when, in the introduction to his question, he states that fewer and fewer young people want to become farmers. In 2009, the Agriculture Investigation Office carried out a survey of young people with the best right to farm property. Of these, 54 are pst. that they've decided to take over the use or think they're going to do it. Whether it is good or bad is a discretionary assessment. It is quite a bit lower than that recorded in the corresponding 1996 survey, but in the group of those who have decided, the difference is not so large. I point out that this is a survey among the most noble on each use and not a survey among young people in general. There are many aspects that affect the preferences of young people for different professions. This is influenced by trends, the labour market in general, education, economic prospects and several other factors. Recruitment to the agricultural industry is an important issue that concerns me a lot. Through agricultural policy, we contribute to facilitating the recruitment of the industry. In the government platform, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The aim is to maintain a living and diverse agriculture and sustainable forestry throughout the country, providing attractive jobs and ensuring recruitment.’ This shows that the government is taking recruitment seriously. For young people who are to choose to take over agricultural property, both economic and social conditions are crucial. Among the economic instruments, BU funds have been set up, among others. against investments related to generational shifts. In addition, young people and women are particularly prioritised through parts of the legislation. Additional grants may be granted for the development of enterprises for persons under 35 years of age. Over the last few years, 20 million have been set aside for the agricultural agreement. to measures for recruitment, equality and competence administered by county councils. In 2010 an additional 4.5 million was set aside. DKK for a three-year national project to strengthen the recruitment of agricultural training at all levels. One of the most important in choosing a profession for young people is security of income and social benefits. This is why it is very important for recruitment that we are able to maintain a satisfactory income development in agriculture, as well as a living and varied agriculture throughout the country, so that production environments do not disappear. Welfare schemes and opportunities for holidays and leisure are also of great importance to young people. This is also an area that this government has prioritised with increased appropriations, but also here without the support of the Progress Party. Instead, the Progress Party proposes to cut the 2011 funding for welfare schemes by 550 million. kr. Choosing agriculture as a profession is a long-term decision. Agriculture requires large investments that will last for many years. Therefore, it is also important that the industry has stable and good framework conditions. The government is facilitating this. We have given agriculture a significant income increase since 2006, and it is my ambition that we should achieve more. This could contribute to the recruitment of agriculture in a completely different and positive way from the agricultural policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e989	I hear what the council says, and I hear what goals he has, but it has not given any results. The average age of farmers is now more than 51 years old, and it is slightly increasing. So, farmers get older and older. There will be fewer and fewer farmers, and there will be fewer and fewer farms. There is less and less land in use, and not least: the income of the farmers goes down. Even though the Council of State says what the government, his party and he himself have done, it has not helped. And what's my question is if not the policy being pursued is wrong. It is clear that everyone in the United Kingdom has a common goal, and that is that we should have active farmers across large parts of Norway. But we also have to do it so that the active farmers have an organized working time, that they have an organized leisure time, that they have an income to live on, and that they have the freedom to take advantage of the opportunities they have on a farm. That's where the government doesn't meet the wishes of the new generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e998	What I feel is that the Progress Party is doing here is describing everything that is happening in the agricultural industry in crisis. It has been the strategy of the Progress Party, and it is still. It is a natural strategy for an opposition party, but the situation is not getting any better. It is also the case that the Progress Party must take responsibility for its own policies. The Progress Party has made proposals this year after year. In the last year, they proposed a cut in the agricultural transfers of approx. 7 B.C.E. kr. We can imagine what would result from reduced incomes for the agricultural industry and for those who work there. I'm going to guarantee that there would be no driving force for the recruitment to the industry that you cut with over 50 pst. in the transfers to the industry, an industry that needs more revenue. What we've done is we've done better revenue. And here, the representative of Bredvold is wrong. Revenue has increased in the last six years, after this red-green government came into position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1005	Finally, income for farmers has fallen by NOK 11 000 from the last year to the last year. Governments must have come to realize that there are still fewer and fewer farmers. There are fewer and fewer farms in operation, there are smaller areas in operation, and that is how I can continue. It's not a crisis maximisation. It's today's situation that I'm explaining. And then the state council and government have to be involved in thinking a little bit alternately, because there are more and more people who are now skipping a generation when it comes to taking over. There are several people who let the stillm continue for many years to come, and there are late generation shifts. I guess this has something to do with the recruitment. You're not in line to take over. You think a little bit more about whether you want to take over an operational building that's completely worn out. It's e.g. 53 B.C.E. SEK in investment funds needed in Norwegian agriculture – 53 billion. kr. But there is no economy in it, and the income, it sinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1012	I think it's pretty complicated to use the tax development of revenue for a year as evidence of development over time. What is the actual situation is that the income of industry, based on the calculations of the budget title — total calculations — has increased on average by over 80 000 DKK in the last five to six years, and that is in line with the chronic development of other groups in society. As far as development is concerned, it is clear that we have major challenges in many areas. But I also want to stress that we have done a lot of good. We have managed to increase food production in a situation where there have been major structural changes. It's positive. We have managed to maintain activity in many, many areas even though it is critical in some areas. It's a job we work for better. But the answer is not cut in the transfers proposed by the Progress Party by 7.7 billion. kr. The answer is to maintain an acceptable level of transmission and thus contribute to securing revenue. This is not the place where the Progress Party takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1024	The question is as follows: ‘Stavanger Bispegien was allocated 1.8 million in the year’s budget. kr. This represents 2.5 new posts. Large population growth means that these positions are eating up the capacity increase far on the way. On a national basis, there is an average of one benefit per 3000 members. In Stavanger diocese, there is one clergyman per 3,400 members. This may seem very unreasonable. What will the Council of State do to correct this misalignment of resources affecting Stavanger diocese and its church members?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1033	As the representative of Thorsen refers to, for the first time in the 2011 state budget, funds earmarked for the creation of new posts are set up for the first time in several years, without this being justified by centrally concluded agreements or national reforms. In the distribution of the increased funds in 2011, we said in the State budget that there should be a decisive emphasis on the fact that some dioceses have a lower performance in relation to the number of church members than other dioceses. The increased funds are then distributed by 3.2 million. DKr to Borg diocese and DKr 1.8 million. To Stavanger diocese. The division has been made on a proposal from the Council of Churches, which has submitted the question to the Councils of Bishops and their professional organisations. Although several of the dioceses would naturally wish for increased resources, I have not recorded that there has been any major disagreement about this way of doing it on this occasion. The government has said in the Soria Moria statement that we will work for more performances. The increase in the 2011 state budget is a response to this. The increased resources of Stavanger diocese now benefit from are in addition to the general strengthening of the services that have been carried out in recent years. This means a real strengthening of the performance coverage in Stavanger diocese. The appropriations for the services have increased in recent years, while the number of members in the Church has been relatively stable. The increased appropriations allocated to the service include, inter alia: come as a result of a new leisure contract for the priests, the introduction of the emergency services for the priests and the implementation of the new organisation of the services through the Proste reform. These have been national reforms and measures that have benefited all the dioceses and have provided better working conditions for the clergy. The services of the clergy are important for the maintenance of the Norwegian Church as a nationwide national church. The Church of the People depends on the good performance throughout the country, so that church members have access to a regular religious service life and to church acts such as baptism, confirmation, marriage and burial. The Norwegian Church is made up of 1,275 geographic parishes. The church grounds are closely linked to the church building. Because church building is the result of a historical development, there are sometimes considerable variations between the population base of parishes. While the clergy in the districts often serve several churches and congregations with relatively few members, the popular parishes in the cities for retribution will often be served by more priests. In a country like ours, it goes without saying that there must be variations in the performance coverage measured per church member. I think we're going to be careful to view differences in membership per performance as an expression of bias in the resource distribution of dioceses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1048	If this diocese is to be at the same level as the national average in relation to the number of church members per clergy, the calculation shows that there is a need for ten to twelve new annual works. For example: Today there are more than 5,000 members per pension, compared with 3,000 on a national basis. The municipalities of Jærkommunar also vary in area. A priest may spend a lot of time – due to long distances – driving to care for the members of the church. Unlike other dioceses, some posts created and funded by bodies other than the Council of Bishops are also included. Stavanger diocese suggests that they traditionally have a high level of activity compared to other parts of the country. Stavanger diocese is expected to increase by 30,000 inhabitants by 2015. If church members are to receive an equally good religious leisure and care provision in the future, it is necessary to allocate resources to more priests. Will the Council consider taking into account population growth and activity levels if it chooses to prioritise allocations for more performance in the national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1055	As I said in my answer: Membership per pastor is just one of several criteria when we distribute funds while at the same time looking at the workload between the priests. There is a difference between serving a large rural area where there are several churches and where distances are significantly greater than in the roga country district. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to use population base as a one-sided criterion to allocate the number of performances according to. We have a long tradition in Norway to allocate funds to local levels based on conditions other than population base. As I have said in the context of the State budget, it is important that we contribute to the participation of those with the greatest workload and, where there is the greatest increase in the population, in the increase that we have contributed to now and that we will contribute to in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1062	The councils were concerned that the churches should be served. But the churches in a diocese constitute a very important community for many people. This is shown not least in the Stavanger diocese, because it is approx. 150 volunteers per congregation. A total of 14 000 people are engaged in various events. The churches have a great commitment beyond ordinary church acts and services. The church has more than 1 000 activities for children and young people and more than 200 choirs for children and adults. In addition, 122 elderly people and — last but not least — 163 care groups are of great importance both for individuals and for the wider community. The need for increased activity is great. How will the Council of State ensure that these important offers, in which a large part of the Rogaland population participate, are not reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1071	The main contribution that the government can make to local activity in the Norwegian Church is that the councils and councils have a good economy. We are most assured of that by having a strong local economy, because it is based on the appropriations for much of the local community work. This is also done by the government focusing strongly on culture in its priorities. The funding for the cultural sector is part of building up under many of the positive activities in the Church that are linked to child and youth work and to what is happening to take care of people who are in vulnerable situations. A strong community economy, so that the local communities and joint councils have sufficient resources and still a strong commitment to culture, will be the main response of our government to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1084	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘On 18 March 2011, it appears that 50 000 shifts have been detected in Health South-East where the working hours are broken. Today's Business Day, 24 March 2011, it is revealed that the municipal hospitals in Moss have violated the Work Environment Act and that there have been three Swedish help nurses living in the basement of one of the nursing homes. How will the Council of State monitor breaches of the Environmental Protection Act and what penalties will be imposed for breaches of the Environmental Protection Act by both private and public employers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1093	The violations of the Working Environment Act are worrying. It is equally worrying when this appears in the public sector as in the private sector. In the examples taken by the representative, Health South-East and Moss Municipality, the health company and the municipality themselves have investigated and thus revealed the situation. In addition, in the case of Moss municipality, the municipality itself has asked to be examined by the Labour Inspectorate. Health enterprises have also taken this into account and have been given an overview of the situation. It is important for both the situation of workers and patient safety. This shows that both the municipality and Health South-East take the situation seriously and follow up on their statutory responsibilities. Safety and health at work authorities are concerned with working conditions in the health sector. Since 2005, the Labour Inspectorate has been out of 1 200 supervision in Norwegian hospitals and over 500 in hospitals. In the hospitals visited by the Labour Inspectorate, there are altogether over 100,000 employees. In the health and care sector, in recent years, supervision has focused primarily on preventing sick leave and physical and mental stress on employees. Also in the pre-Adecco case there were examples of unacceptable contracts and employment. However, following the Adecco case, the authorities have undertaken an intensified supervisory effort with both hiring out and hiring out labour. In the spring, I would like to send a big message about working conditions and the working environment. The Communication will have a comprehensive perspective on the challenges facing us in the world of work and will guide the challenges facing the future. There is no doubt that efforts to combat unprofessionalism and social dumping are an important theme of this Communication. At present, supervision may employ several instruments in its work. Oversight may include: impose, impose periodic penalty payments, stop work or report. In the Communication, I will discuss various ways of strengthening the sanctions of the Labour Inspectorate beyond those already in place today. It is important that supervision can intervene with effective penalties where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1104	I thank you for your answer. Like the Council of State, I'm very concerned that we're going to have a clean and well-functioning working life. It is important that employees feel that they have a good job to do. I think that's absolutely crucial, regardless of the sector in which a job is employed, regardless of whether a job is in the public sector or whether a job is in the private sector. We have recently seen that there has been a major focus on the manning industry. Some of them have had a legitimate kick on the piece. That doesn't mean that the entire manning industry is miserable for that reason. I think we need a strong, serious and good crewing industry in the future as well. My supplementary question will be: what sanctions will be imposed to ensure that when there is a breach within the municipal sector, it is followed up well enough? For my impression, when I talk to a number of employees, that they have pointed out a breach, they have received supervisory reports both from the county and several, but then they are not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1115	So it's the way the representative himself points out that there are clear rules, and the regulations are implemented in ILO 94, that the municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that when they use crew companies, they have to be decent and tidy. I have the impression that the municipalities do that in most cases. But we have also seen a number of cases, such as: here in the Municipality of Oslo in connection with the Adecco case, where this has not happened. It's serious. Now a lot of the supervisory authority is turning towards this area to show that you can't sleep here for an hour, here you'll be checked. That's the one. So the Labour Inspectorate has all the sanctions that I mentioned related to the business that is outsourced. So they can either stop working or do all of these other things. So I think we have a good device for this. In addition, I would like to assess in the communication whether the Labour Inspectorate should also be able to monitor that municipalities actually have good control systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1122	Thank you again for your answer. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. I also think it is important that the Labour Inspectorate now turns some of its supervisory activities into these types of establishments. I think that's positive. But I hope that it will not be a turn where one should only look at the cases where private services are provided within the public sector, but that one also has the same supervision where the municipalities and the public sector are employers. That's what's my whole point, and that's what's my concern. Regardless of where you are employed, you must feel that you have a safe, serious and good job. In public, it may be even more important to go ahead with a good example and take things seriously. Therefore, I would like a clearer answer from the Council of State as to whether she will also ensure that the rotation of supervision by the Labour Inspectorate will also apply where the municipalities themselves are employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1131	The Labour Inspectorate shall check that people work safely and have proper working conditions. That's what they'll do when people are employed directly in the municipalities, and they'll do it when they're using crew companies. Then it may have been seen that the Labour Inspectorate has exercised supervision based on risk-based assessments and tips. Much has well gone in the direction that where there has been hired labour, there has been a major breach of the Labour Environment Act. Then you've also focused on it. But one doesn't rule out the other. I totally agree with that, because we have to do both. Of course, we need to take advantage of our supervisory powers, where we believe that there is the greatest risk. Then I just want to mention that, in the case of health businesses in general, the Minister for Health has gone in and looked at the breaches of working time regulations in health businesses. It's been a very, very small number, but it's some. I am now working with the Minister of Health to see what types of fractures it is, and what we can do about it. But as I stressed, social dumping is not. There is a possible breach of working time regulations, and there is something else. I believe that to the extent that we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1149	This question has been withdrawn. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-30.ana.ud1637e1164	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
