ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e74	It is a pleasure to wish the Icelandic delegation led by the President of Everything, Ásta R. Johndóttir, welcome to the Stortinget. [[The representatives applauded]] They called the alternates of the Nordland County, Ann-Hege Lervåg and Kari Storstrand, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e88	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. President proposes Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e95	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Erna Solberg and myself, I want to put forward a proposal for a representative on faster and better access to medicines. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Michael Tetzschner, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to set up specialised diagnostic centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e102	The representative, Mr Warloe, wants to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e105	I got a running slip on the street today that says the world is going under on 21 May, it's on Saturday. But I still choose to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Gunnar Gundersen, Nikolai Astrup and myself on a reinforced effort to commercialise research results. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e110	We will then seek to make it possible for it to be dealt with in a regulatory way – all the proposals for representatives! Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e124	This time, the presentation of important EU and EEA cases against a backstop of upheavals in Europe’s neighbouring countries in the south – in the Middle East and North Africa. The spark that was lit in Tunisia six months ago has spread like a wind and created uprisings and demands for democracy, respect for human rights, justice and well-being throughout the region. In Tunisia and Egypt there is hope of peaceful and democratic development. In Libya, developments have gone in the direction of violence and strife, as the Minister of Defence and I explained in the United Kingdom on 9 May this year. This Arab spring is revolutions and popular uprisings in which European countries – historically – can recognise themselves and which have led to today's democratic societies. We therefore have a responsibility to stand up to those who are today fighting for respect for human rights, the rule of law, reforms and democracy. In Libya, several EU countries play a leading role in the UN Security Council through the broad sanctions and humanitarian efforts of the EU, and European countries are the most important contributors to NATO-led military operations. Europe’s support is at least equally important when new governance sets and institutions are to be established. The UN preparedness planner for the future of Libya and the Secretary-General expect the EU to contribute to future reconstruction. High Representative Ashton announced that the EU would establish an office in Benghazi next week. It is important for European countries to act in such a way that the countries of the Arab League and the African Union are as closely involved as possible and thus more responsible for current policies and future road choices. The role of the European Union as a peace-building and stabilising force in its neighbourhoods has thus been given fresh impetus. In March this year, EU Heads of State or Government decided to strengthen the neighbourhood policy towards the south. This partnership for the development of democracy, economic integration and growth includes all countries south of the Mediterranean – from Morocco in the west to Jordan in the east. During the ministerial meeting of the Council of Europe last week, there was also agreement to strengthen the Council’s neighbouring country policy and to make its experience and competence available to neighbours in the south. On my trip to south-east Europe in April – starting in Turkey and continuing to Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia and Croatia – I was reaffirmed the importance of the European integration process for the political development of the region. Reforms to live up to the vision of EU membership are a model of country reform policy – yes, as a tangible expression of the country’s passing the test of economic and political reform. Predictability of economic development and investment is one side of this issue, stability to resolve regional and national tensions another. It is therefore important to contribute to the success of the most vulnerable countries in the region, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, towards closer integration in the EU. Turkey, which sees political obstacles to EU membership, is equally determined to implement the adaptations required by membership. I notice that Turkey is doing this with greater confidence than just a few years ago. This is due both to the large economic growth and to the experience of playing a much more significant regional foreign policy role now. Norway strengthens cooperation with Turkey, including: on peace and reconciliation work, and we are further developing our cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans, as explained by the government in the recent communication to the United Kingdom. The uneasiness in North Africa has given rise to increased migration. More than 780,000 people have left Libya. More than 34 000 people have arrived in Europe, most Tunisian jobseekers and people from sub-Saharan countries. A further deterioration in the situation in Libya may lead to an even greater influx, and many may need international protection. Sound asylum treatment in Europe is primarily the responsibility of the countries of arrival. Assistance from the EU to individual countries of arrival is possible for maritime border control and the asylum system. Frontex Border Agency coordinates a joint operation at sea around the island of Lampedusa and elsewhere in the Mediterranean Sea. We have a responsibility for solidarity, and Norway contributes to Europe's proper management of migration flows. Our humanitarian aid has enabled people to return to their homeland. Norway has agreed to use 90 places on the existing quota for Libyan refugees, mainly for third-country nationals in need of protection. Of these, 30 will be taken from the group of refugees located in Malta. In addition, the government decided to increase the quota for transfer refugees by 250 persons in 2011 – as a one-off measure – in order to meet the need for protection in the light of the situation in North Africa. The flow of people across the Mediterranean has resulted in France and Italy wanting to strengthen external border control and extend the possibility of reintroducing temporary internal border controls. In the debate on 12 May by Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs, it was agreed that changes should not undermine the fundamental principle of freedom of travel in Schengen; a view we share. Any amendment to the Schengen acquis must be discussed in the Council, the Member States and the European Parliament. We want to take part in that discussion through the Joint Body. Denmark has been met with scepticism after the country decided a few days ago to strengthen control at its internal borders. The Danish authorities have claimed that this is about intensified customs controls on goods – and not personal checks. The Commission is now assessing whether the Danish restrictions comply with the Schengen acquis and the principle of freedom of movement. Another backbone of this statement is the financial crisis and the serious debt situation in several EU countries. In a number of European countries, growth has taken place, as in Sweden and Germany, but the situation is otherwise uncertain and uneven. Increased commodity prices and higher indirect taxes have contributed to increased price increases. This contributed to the European Central Bank setting up for the first time since 2008 the interest rate on 7 April of this year. A continued rise in interest rates can dampen growth and increase the burden of debt servicing in the most vulnerable countries. In Greece, recent developments have taken a more serious direction. The country is in a situation of high and rising sovereign debt. It is difficult to obtain the necessary budgetary consolidations. This has increased the interest rate premium for the Greek sovereign debt and has led the EU and the IMF to re-assess how the situation can be remedied. On Tuesday 17 May, EU Finance Ministers adopted a rescue package for Portugal of a total of 78 billion. The euro, where the IMF will contribute a third. For Ireland, Ministers adopted a revision of the existing crisis package in order to ensure the best possible implementation of the 2010 rescue package already adopted. Spain is also exposed, but the development of debt is less dramatic here than it has been in the last two years. The country's economy is almost twice as large as the Greek, Irish and Portuguese combined. This is why developments in Spain are significant for the whole continent. Overall, the unemployment rate in the EU-27 is slightly lower than last year, but still dramatically high for some groups. It is serious that the unemployment rate among people under 25 in several EU countries is higher than 30 pst. EU countries have found solutions to strengthen eurocooperation in this spring. In March, the European Council adopted a minor Treaty amendment allowing the establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism from 2013. The change will now be approved by the EU Member States. The March Summit decided on the so-called ‘Euro Plus Pact’. This policy pact sets out general guidelines for economic policy and provides for measures to strengthen fiscal discipline. The choice of measures and their implementation will continue to be a national matter, but closely followed up by the Community. The ‘Euro Plus Pact’ is intended to support the euro area – but there is more: To date, six Member States outside the euro have wanted to join the Pact. This is therefore a step in the direction of the fact that cooperation between the EU and, in particular, the euro area countries is not only binding on monetary policy, but we see signs of general economic coordination. New so-called stress tests for banks shall assess the exposure to sovereign debt. They shall identify where capital injections are necessary. This work is no guarantee to prevent new economic turbulence. The EU is now seeking to prevent such developments and to mitigate their effects — if they do so again. When President Van Rompuy of the European Council was in Oslo on 30 March, he did not conceal the following challenge: that several EU countries have to reform and cut the budget on the one hand and create growth and jobs on the other. But the President stressed that no one had to underestimate the will of the EU countries to mobilise to achieve this. The coming months will give us answers as to what this will result. Innovation, increased resource efficiency, research and education are key to long-term growth and the fight against unemployment. In June, it is one year since the European Council adopted the Europe 2020 strategy, where research and education are at the centre. Although Europe 2020 is not binding on Norway, the strategy is relevant to us for several reasons. Firstly, the EU is our second largest export and import market. The success of the EU in strengthening value creation and employment has a profound impact on the Norwegian economy. Secondly, many EEA initiatives are relevant within the seven action packages – referred to as flagship initiatives. Such an initiative is the EU Roadmap on Resource Efficiency and Low Carbon Economy. It will strengthen the European economy and reduce environmental pressures, as Minister for the Environment and Development Solheim explained at the meeting of the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment earlier today. Thirdly, Norwegian interests are also linked to initiatives that are not necessarily directly relevant to the EEA. Proposals in the energy field are examples of this. The development of the internal market has received renewed attention. The internal market ensures Norwegian businesses market access and access to key inputs in line with activities throughout the EEA territory. Norway has consistently benefited from the development of common rules and standards for its activities in the European market. Last October, the Commission presented an action plan to strengthen the internal market with 50 different measures. In general, these are relevant to Norway. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Government sent our comments to the Commission. Our input supports the Commission's commitment to the internal market and the importance of enforcement of existing legislation. We also pointed out the necessary balance between the market and the safeguarding of social and professional rights. In April, the Commission presented its final version of the action plan and Norway’s input was well preserved there. The Europe 2020 past – the Lisbon Strategy – has achieved mixed results. Many of the targets were not met. Europe 2020 is more concrete. We will follow closely the further work in the EU, identify Norwegian interests and participate where it is natural for us. On 2 May this year it was 19 years since the signature of the EEA Agreement. It is the most comprehensive international agreement Norway has concluded and it Systematizes our relationship with the EU. So we can ask: what effect has the totality of all legal acts had on Norwegian society – economic, social, legal and administrative? These are among the questions now addressed by the government-appointed committee chaired by Professor Fredrik Sejersted. The report shall be available before the end of the year and shall be followed up with a notification to the Grand Duchy. The mandate also provides for the promotion of the debate on Norwegian European policy. I want to commend the sample for taking this part of the task seriously as well. There have been full houses around the country at debate meetings on many different aspects of EEA cooperation. The European interest and the involvement in Norway are maximum living. In the next week, I myself attend the panel’s debate meeting on ‘Outside or within? Norway’s European dilemma’, on our relationship with the EU. We should also note the interest of the committee's work in the EU. The Council conclusions of December 2010 encouraged, as it says, a parallel assessment in the EU and exchange of experience with EFTA/EEA countries. This exchange is under way both in Oslo and in Brussels. It's positive. It is worth noting the Council conclusions that the work under the EEA Agreement is highlighted as exemplary. This is due to a framework that has proved to be durable, despite several Treaty changes and new Member States in the EU. But, above all, this is about political will – not least in Norway – under changing governments and increasing numbers, the willingness to comply with the commitments and to seek pragmatic adaptations to this agreement over time. And this is because there has been a willingness and interest to conclude new agreements in other fields as EU cooperation has developed. In the Sejersted Committee's studies and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' ongoing work, the focus must be on how we can ensure that the EEA Agreement remains an effective instrument of cooperation. It also implies that Norway should use all the possibilities offered by the contract agency, including the right of reservation, to safeguard Norwegian interests. The functioning of the EEA Agreement should be assessed in the light of the major changes that have taken place in Europe and the EU over the years. In addition, the possibility of further developing the institutional framework for contact with the Council of Member States and the European Parliament should be assessed, given the changed balance of power in the EU. This is one of the themes we'll come back to in the government's announcement to the Storing next year. Another question raised from time to time is this: Should the EEA be extended to other countries outside the EU? One of the tasks of the EU side, which is now managed by the new EEAS, is to seek solutions for closer links with the internal market for small countries such as Andorra, San Marino and Monaco. This is initially a matter between the EU and these countries. In the view of the government, it is not natural for them to be linked to the internal market through the EEA and the EFTA pillar. They have different needs and assumptions to those of Norway. A more limited and simplified relationship therefore appears to be more realistic. The EEAS is expected to produce a report on the relationship with these countries before the summer. From the Norwegian side, we have been in discussions with EEAS to be kept informed and to communicate our views. The government conducts offensive and up-to-date EU and EEA policies. We can see that, among other things. in the work on specific EEA issues, and let me mention some important points: The third EU Postal Directive regulates aspects of the internal market to which we are linked through the EEA Agreement. Postal consignments of more than 50 grams are already liberalised in Norway through the two previous postal directives that we have included in the EEA Agreement. The third Directive terminates all postal postal special rights and exclusive rights of less than 50 grams and facilitates competition in this part of the postal market. For the government it is a priority task to ensure postal services of good quality and at a reasonable price for everyone throughout the country. Frequent collection of mail and unit portfolios are instruments to achieve this. The unprofitable social part of the postal services is currently partly financed by the exclusive right of Post Norge AS and partly by the State budget each year. There is reason to believe that the abolition of exclusive rights would put pressure on increased funding from the State budget. Questions have also been asked about whether the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement could adversely affect pay and working conditions in the postal sector, based on the experience we have observed in some EU countries. Overall, the government considers that there are serious arguments that Norway is opposed to incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement. Next Monday, 23 May, I will meet in the EEA Council in Brussels with our EFTA partners, Iceland and Liechtenstein, and the European Union side. I would like to inform you there of the Norwegian position. Norway will follow the procedures set out in the EEA Agreement on reservation in the further follow-up of this case. The EEA Agreement has a detailed procedure for dealing with a case. The Government, which emphasises that all parties respect the content and obligations of the EEA Agreement, will focus on following the procedures set out in the Agreement. Under Article 102 of the Agreement, the parties are required to make every effort to resolve the conflict or to minimise its adverse effects as far as possible. We cannot today foreshadow the outcome of the discussions following the procedures laid down in Article 102. If no agreement is reached, the directly concerned part of the EEA Agreement could be suspended. If this is to happen, we have to make a thorough assessment of the consequences. It is too early to calculate the economic consequences of such a suspension. Both the extent of the suspension and how it is implemented will be important here. It is the party wishing to incorporate the act in question into the EEA Agreement that decides when to formally initiate an Article 102 procedure. Several EU countries have not yet transposed the Directive into their own law, and eleven Member States may, according to the Directive, postpone its implementation until 31 December 2012. The Government will keep the bodies of the Storting informed about developments in this matter, including the implications of a possible suspension for directly affected parts of EEA cooperation. The current ban on alcohol advertising in foreign television broadcasts specifically targeted Norway has been put under pressure by the Audiovisual Services Directive. We have worked widely towards the European Union for the continuation of the derogation we have today. It makes it possible to stop alcohol advertising in corrected consignments from other countries. We're worried about the relationship between advertising and consumption. This has been communicated to the European Union, but the European Union has so far failed to respond to this matter. We are now waiting for formal feedback from the Commission. We haven't fixed that feedback, but we expect it to come formally from the Commission. The size has decided that the Data Storage Directive will be implemented in Norway and it will now be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. At the same time, we know that revised legislation is under way. This also shows a characteristic of EU and EEA cooperation, namely continuous development. In the audit work, we should note that the Commissioner for Justice and Fundamental Rights, Reding, has made privacy a priority. She has notified a new data protection code during the year. We do not yet know the details of the proposal, but the Treaty of Lisbon provides for more comprehensive protection of privacy in the EU. A new legislation could have consequences for Norway. The government will work to ensure that new rules affecting Norwegian interests take into account the privacy of individuals as well as the need for transparency and control of society. If we are to have an impact on the EU's legislative exemptions, we must argue well, and – as far as possible – that an exception or adaptation does not have discriminatory or anti-competitive consequences. We have done that in connection with the deposit guarantee scheme and our requirement to maintain the current coverage level of 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. The current EU Directive is subject to revision. We are working to get a text into the new directive that allows Norway to maintain the current coverage, which has remained unchanged in Norway since 1996. A full harmonisation of the coverage has been adopted in the EU to EUR 100000 from 1 January 2011. This principle of full harmonisation has continued in a proposal for a completely new deposit guarantee directive, which is now under consideration in the EU. In the past, the amount requirement for coverage has been a minimum harmonisation. It is difficult to get through to Norwegian adaptations, as I said. Derogations challenge the very core of EEA cooperation: uniformity. It also applies in the EEA. Legislation shall be implemented in the same way in all 30 EEA countries in order to ensure equivalent conditions of competition and predictability, which we have consistently served. In our work on the Deposits Directive case, it has been important to demonstrate to the EU that the continuation of Norwegian coverage will not lead to distortions of competition. We have made concrete proposals for mechanisms that effectively ensure equivalent conditions of competition, even though Norway is continuing the level of coverage. This is ensured by the fact that Norway has, in all respects, emphasised that we are willing to continue a mechanism whereby foreign banks operating on the Norwegian market will have the opportunity to join the Norwegian guarantee scheme for the difference between the Norwegian scheme, approximately EUR 250 000, and the home country scheme, EUR 100000, i.e. a so-called ‘topping up’ access. Furthermore, we have stressed in all respects that we are willing to impose an effective export ban on Norwegian banks, so that they cannot offer this higher guarantee to depositors from abroad. The government will continue to work offensively on this matter in the future. Labour law is another area that governments follow with attention. We must ensure that Norwegian principles and standards for decent work are maintained. The Government shall decide whether the EU agency directive is to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. A central provision of the Directive lays down a non-discrimination principle concerning the pay and working conditions of temporary workers hired out of the temporary employment agency. It also regulates access to restrictions on the use of hired labour. In the 2010 consultation round, employers’ organisations stated that the labour hiring rule must be liberalised as a result of the Directive. The Government’s view is that the Norwegian rental rules can be maintained. The LO shares the government’s assessment. For employee organisations, it has been important to emphasise the requirement that legal employment conditions, effective job protection and the legalisation of effective enforcement measures for non-discrimination should be ensured by the implementation of the Directive. The Government agrees that this is an important consideration for the implementation of this Directive. The provisions of the EEA Agreement on public aid provide a framework for Norwegian industrial activities. The regulatory framework specifies the limitations and scope of action of the public body as a supporter. I will provide two examples of public support guidelines that the European Commission is now dealing with: The first concerns new guidelines on public aid that may be granted under the revised Trade Directive. This allows for public support for activities to compensate for an increase in the cost of CO2 emissions by manufacturers. The aim of the aid is to avoid carbon leakage by moving industry to countries without carbon regulation. The Commission has had a first consultation to get input from authorities, organisations and companies into the design of the future guidelines. A substantial part of the Norwegian consultation response addresses the methodology for calculating the CO2 emission cost in the power price, in order to ensure that the guidelines are based on the correct basis with regard to the Nordic water-based power market. The government will be given the opportunity to make further views when a formal draft new guidelines are available. The government has not yet decided whether such aid should be granted to the Norwegian industry. The second example is the revision of the regional aid guidelines. These set the framework for various forms of public support to the business community in the districts. The guidelines form the basis for the ESA’s approval of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme and district development grants. The Commission is working on new guidelines on regional aid, which will apply from 2014. These are important for Norway. We have already expressed to the EU that today's opportunities to provide investment aid in areas with low population density, as well as the opening of schemes such as differentiated employer charges, should be continued. Norwegian views will be forwarded to the Commission in the near future. The EEA Agreement also facilitates broad research cooperation with the EU. Norway's participation in the EU Framework Programmes for Research, Technology and Demonstration Activities is our biggest programme effort in the EEA. The Commission is now planning a new common framework programme for research and innovation that will replace the current programme, with effect from 2014. We are preparing Norwegian views here. When the case is ready in the EU, the government will present the issue of Norwegian participation to the Stortinget — probably in the spring of 2013. The field of research and innovation is one of the most dynamic policy areas in the EU. The Treaty of Lisbon obliges EU countries to participate in closer cooperation on research policy. The aim is to ensure coordination between research programmes at national and European level. The Government will assess Norwegian participation and inclusion of a similar framework in the EEA Agreement. Education is another comprehensive area of cooperation in the EEA Agreement — the second largest in terms of programme cooperation. Norway has recently taken the initiative of a joint EEA/EFTA opinion on the new generation of education programmes that will start in 2014. For this part of EEA cooperation too, the issue of participation will be referred to the Stortinget in 2013. The Lisbon Treaty changes the so-called comitology system of the EU, i.e.: when the Commission adopts supplementary legislation after examination in committees composed of representatives of the Member States. Parliament has now been equated with the Council in delegation of this type of authority to the Commission. In addition, the comitology system has been simplified to ensure efficiency and transparency. About 80 pst. supplementary legislation has been adopted by EEA-relevant acts in such a committee procedure. The EEA Agreement gives Norway the right to participate as an observer. This enables us to contribute with knowledge, disseminate our views and share information and knowledge exchanges. The reform involves certain changes in the distribution of competences between the Commission on the one hand and the Council and the European Parliament on the other. The procedures for the exercise of the Commission’s competence will also be changed, but it remains to be seen how these will finally be drawn up. The government has sought to ensure Norwegian interests. We have a good hope of continuing our rights under the EEA Agreement. In addition, EU agencies and supervisory bodies play an increasingly important role both in policy-making and in the implementation of EU legislation. Norwegian participation in agencies is important for EEA cooperation and for legal equality in the EEA. Recently, some agencies have been given decision-making powers. This raises questions of a legal and political nature. Our starting point is that the exercise of powers towards an EEA/EFTA State shall be carried out nationally or by an EEA/EFTA body. The Government will ensure that the framework established by the Constitution and the EEA Agreement is safeguarded in this area. The nuclear disaster in Japan has raised the debate on nuclear safety, environmental and health effects and alternative energy sources in several EU countries. The situation in North Africa and the Middle East has resulted in increased oil and gas prices. Norway plays a significant role as a stable supplier in Europe. Over 95 pst. Norwegian gas is sold in the European market. This will continue to play a significant role in our relationship with the EU and central European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, France and the Netherlands. Through discussions on energy issues – so-called energy dialogues – we engage directly with European partners in the discussions on tomorrow's energy production, consumption and environmental benefits in Europe. The EU's own energy policy shall combine different objectives: secure energy supply, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector and participation in functioning energy markets. The EU Summit in February confirmed the ambitions for a genuine internal energy market from 2014 and that no Member State should be isolated from the European gas and electricity markets after 2015. This is a very ambitious objective, and investments in new and expensive infrastructure must be made. The Commission shall draw up a list of infrastructure projects which may be involved in financial contributions from the Community. However, the majority of the investments must come from the market itself. These points of view are echoed by Norway. Last month, the Commission presented two key documents in the field of energy and climate: a roadmap for the low-carbon economy towards 2050 and a communication on energy efficiency improvement. The Roadmap suggests that an overall plan to reduce CO2 emissions in the EU by 80-95 pst should be established. by 2050. The government welcomes this ambitious plan. We are negotiating with the Commission on adaptations and inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the revised ETS Directive. This legislation provides for the establishment of a harmonised EEA-wide system. The EU is also working on a roadmap for energy towards 2050. We have highlighted the role of natural gas in the EU energy mix in this time perspective, at the latest at the informal EU Energy Ministerial Meeting in Budapest. We have also expressed views on EU energy and climate policies on several other occasions in the last six months. It seems to me that Norway's input is being listened to in the EU and that our knowledge and our policy initiatives in this area are important. In other contexts in Stortinget, we have highlighted that the EU is showing increasing interest in the northern regions and in our specific competence in the north. Norway has promoted views on the challenges facing different parts of the EU system in the Arctic, and this work believes we have borne fruit. We are experiencing a growing understanding of Norwegian vision in the EU. It appeared at the latest in the European Parliament resolution of January 2011 on the Arctic. It's a long way to take care of our interests. This is an example of the fact that Norwegian views, where we have interests and competences, can win EU integration when they are presented in a relevant way. During the Ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Greenland last week, in which parliamentarians also participated, we discussed, among other things. improving the efficiency of the organisation. We agreed that the permanent secretariat should be added to Tromsø, which has been hosting the temporary secretariat since 2006. When this is confirmed, it will strengthen the work of the Arctic Council and consolidate Tromsø as the centre for Arctic issues — in Norway and internationally. A search and rescue agreement in the Arctic was also signed at the Greenlandic meeting, which is the first binding agreement negotiated under the auspices of the Arctic Council. It shall ensure that existing marine and Arctic air rescue facilities are better coordinated. The next step is to start negotiations on an agreement on the preparedness and management of marine oil pollution in the Arctic. In addition, agreement was reached on the criteria to be met by applicants such as China, Japan and the EU before they can become permanent observers to the Council. Seven out of eight Arctic countries made representations at ministerial level in Greenland, and both the United States and Russia's Foreign Minister participated. It is a clear expression of increasing emphasis on Arctic issues and the work of the Arctic Council — as the only Circumpolar forum. At the meeting, Sweden took over the Presidency after Denmark, and it will round off a joint Scandinavian Presidency period that has remained between 2007 and 2013 and has been characterised by a particularly close and close cooperation. As the Storting is well known, Norway contributes to the economic and social development of 15 EU Member States through the EEA funds. It is a substantial contribution to development, mainly in the new NATO and EU Member States of Central Europe. I have traveled in a number of recipient countries and have seen what difference these funds can make. This is not development aid, but support for projects triggered by applications from countries themselves in areas we agree on. Cooperation with beneficiary countries is steady over good. However, we have had challenges with the implementation in Greece, where we believe that the commitments have not been met. We therefore see the need to stop the payment of EEA funds to Greece until further notice. The payments stopped relate to the period 2004-2009. In the wake of the new EEA contribution agreements for the period 2009–2014, Norway, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, is now negotiating with 15 countries on the allocation of funds. Countries are required to respond in specific sectors. Among the most important are the environment and climate, civil society, tripartite cooperation, business and research. In addition, several beneficiary countries choose cooperation in justice and health. Agreements with Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and Slovenia have been signed for the time being, while Poland, Estonia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Greece are expected to follow in the near future. With Greece, we have agreed on a commitment in the field of asylum to strengthen the capacity of asylum management. Actions will focus in particular on the situation of lone minor asylum seekers. EEA funds thus contribute to enhanced cooperation in the EU on asylum practices. As important as the priority of sectors, bilateral relations are. EEA funds shall promote cooperation between Norway and the recipient countries. Greater involvement of Norwegian partners in programmes and projects, such as in Lithuania, has therefore been opened up, with priority being given to climate action along with action in the justice sector. Recently, an agreement has also been reached with the Council of Europe to strengthen cooperation with beneficiary countries in the field of justice. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the rest of us can show this year that 20 years have passed since the break-up of the Warsaw Pact and the start of a new era in Europe – nothing less. We have witnessed a peaceful transformation unparalleled in European history: from one party states to democracies, from a plan economy to a market economy, from a unification and censorship to the review of a strong and varied European cultural heritage. Now these countries are our allies and partners in the EEA. Poland takes over the six-monthly Presidency of the EU after Hungary on 1 July. A year of central European leadership in the EU will be an interesting picture of the new era. Poland is a large and strong EU country that will use the Presidency to focus on the east by strengthening the Eastern Partnership. This concerns the EU's relations with neighbouring countries Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. The aim is closer political and economic cooperation. There is no prospect of EU membership, but neither is it excluded. In this case, the road goes through closer integration into the internal market. Poland’s and the EU’s ambition is that the EU should be a catalyst for growth and stability in Europe’s eastern neighbourhoods. The situation in the Middle East and North Africa thus gives hope to the role of the European Union as a stabilising force and a peace-building force in its neighbourhoods. Enlargement Commissioner Füle has said that if the EU wants to become a credible global player, the EU must start its own neighbourhood. It's a vision we share. Füle and High Representative Ashton are launching a strategy for EU neighbourhood policy in the south and east. It will take greater account of the wishes of neighbouring countries, but also of the EU's assumptions. The EU uses the term ‘more for more’: the greater the efforts that neighbouring countries make for the development of democracy, good governance and human rights, the more they will be able to expect the EU to develop politically and economically. Ashton has a tough job to get the EU's 27 countries to speak with one voice to neighbours to whom these countries have different historical relations and who have very different interests. There is respect for her efforts, and we have had good contacts with her and her staff. It was possible to agree on a UN resolution on Kosovo which will form the basis for further work on the Serbia-Kosov dialogue. And the EU continues to fight piracy off the east coast of Africa with full strength. In addition, Ashton has a personal engagement in the Middle East, and we are working well in the donor country group AHLC and in several other foreign policy areas. Such cooperation is also important for the promotion of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e370	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e384	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that 5 minutes be given to a member of the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e395	‘Retransmission radio’ or ‘broadcasting’ is essential for radio. Broadcasting is what makes radio radio. Today, broadcasting in Norway is at a crossroads. We are faced with two clear options, and the Committee is also divided into these two options. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party, wants national radio to continue to be based on old technology, based on FM signals. I think it's turning my back on the future when it comes to radio development. Unlike the minority, the majority will take the last major step into the digital radio world by using new technologies. The first steps have already been taken. Today, approx. 80 pst. by the population of Norway listening to ether transmitted digital radio, and there are mostly listeners in the largest places around our country. The majority will also be able to turn on the radio in Porsanger, Mehamn and Grue and freely choose a wider range of radio channels than they do today. Today, radio services in these places and in many other places are very limited. Providing the population throughout Norway with a better and wider range of radio services in the form of multiple radio channels and digital ancillary services is the driving force behind this communication. The debate on digitising the broadcasting of radio has been on the political agenda for many years. In the decision during the examination of St.melding. No 30 for 2006–2007, Broadcasting in a digital future, Stortinget agreed to digitise radio based on some criteria. One of several criteria was that the actors themselves should control this development – a criterion that the majority are also behind today. After St.meld. No 30 have no doubt about digitizing radio, but the question up until today has been when. Actors have requested when, on the grounds that without a certain date of the FM band's turn-off, there would be no developmental possibilities, and the radio would lose listeners. The majority of the population today will give the actors the answer they've been waiting for. January 2017 is the closing date for the FM network, provided that certain criteria are met. They will I come back to later in my post. The Committee is divided into a view on whether or not to bet on digital broadcasting. Regardless of the solution chosen, large investments must be made. The Committee is aware that the current use of FM, based on an analogue technology, does not have a potential for either multiple channels or new services on the FM platform. Today’s big message describes a state of health in today’s FM network that will require large investments in both maintenance and upgrade after 2014. In particular, it is challenging in the part of the network used by the NRK. It is beginning to approach the end of its technical lifetime, and something must therefore be done. Number shows that the NRK alone will save 35 million. kr per year on transition to new technology. It's money that will benefit us radio listeners. I would also assume that the commercial radioactivity will have a potential for performance. It is expensive to send both on the FM network and on the digital network, as it is today. The political challenge will then be: will money be spent on the maintenance and upgrade of old technology, represented on today's FM network, or are we going to spend money on investing in new technology, represented by DAB and DAB+? For the majority, this choice is simple. We listen to the advice we get from those who are actors, and therefore join them in the digital radio world, based on DAB technology. The minority claims in its comment that it is a bold and very uncertain decision The Storting does by betting on DAB digital radio. On the contrary, the majority in this room, the broadcasters in Norway and abroad believe that we are confident that we are making a sensible and forward-looking choice for several reasons: Firstly, it is the technology at the bottom of digital radio development so far in Norway. Secondly, it is the platform chosen by most European countries. Total approx. In 2011, 40 nations worldwide will use DAB technology for digital broadcasting. Thirdly, it has resulted in a wide range of radios, and here in Norway we already have a significant supply of digital radios in trade. One of Europe’s largest radio markets, Germany, is an example of countries that are now expanding DAB. So far they've only had regional radio broadcasts. Now the two national radio networks are based on DAB technology, with space for a dozen channels. It may be appropriate to refer to what the Vice-President of the European Commission, Neelie Kroes, said about the role of radio in the major EU Digital Agenda project: ‘I want radio to be at the heart of the digital revolution. My job is to help content providers obtain offers across the EU market – and this cannot be done with analogue FM radio alone.’ I feel that the majority of people today take the same responsibility for the development of radio in Norway. It is part of the story that she was clear that the EU will also choose a broadcasting technology based on DAB/DAB+, among others. because there are open standards. In its comments, the Progress Party rejects the development of digital broadcasting in Norway, on the grounds that they will be committed to the digital development of radio through the Internet and the mobile network according to their media-political spokesman, Øyvind Korsberg. It is their choice, but we are many who will claim that it will be a bold and uncertain decision. The majority do not say no to radio through the mobile network and the Internet. It is an excellent addition and will be very important to achieve listeners on a digital platform. More and more radios have both FM, DAB and the Internet. We also know that there is a wide range of radio channels on the Internet, but a channel on the Internet cannot have an unlimited number of simultaneous listeners, and is not as accessible anywhere as a broadcast radio channel is. And these constraints, in a case of urgency, mean that we can claim that this option is a bold and uncertain solution. Internet listening is also not free of charge, and listening costs can be high especially in mobile situations. Both today and in the future, both the NRK, P4 and Radio Norway will reach the whole country without having to pay for the listening. Another topic that has been problematic in the debate since the communication was presented is that when digital broadcasting is switched to, millions of existing radios will have to be scrapped – some mention a figure of 20 million. With all due respect, such an argument is, in the opinion of many, only meant to frighten – and far from the truth. For those who want to replace their radios, there are well-established electronic waste systems. Those who want to keep their old radios can buy reasonable adapters – or as the Progress Party writes in its note: ‘dupediter’ – so that they can record digital radio broadcasts on their old radio network. The same will apply to those who want to keep their old car radio. The adapters are on the market today. The majority of the size assumes that five criteria must be met before the final date for closure is decided. It is a prerequisite that NRK's radio services receive a digital coverage corresponding to today's P1 coverage on the FM network. The commercial part of the DAB network must be expanded to reach 90 pst. by the population. Another criterion is that digital radio must represent an added value for listeners. There must also be good and reasonable solutions for automotive radio reception. And one last criterion is that half of the listeners have to listen to a digital radio platform every day – a digital platform in this context is DAB, mobile phone and the Internet. According to the Government, these five assumptions shall be met as of 1 January 2015 in order to decide that the FM network will be shut down in 2017. I have to admit that I see very optimistically that these criteria will be met. Finally, a few words about a very important part of the radio landscape in Norway, namely the local radio. Even I am a keen listener of Radio Alta, while people from Honningsvåg listen to the broadcaster Elde in Radio Nordkapp. I'm sure the representatives here in the hall have a corresponding local radio at home in their place. And the question is, what about these in the future? Today's decision will take good care of them. Most local radios will be able to continue broadcasting in the FM network even after 2017. Whoever it is will be determined later, but that the smallest local radios will have that opportunity, there is a great deal of agreement. The same will apply to local radios that will switch to the new digital platform – they will also have this opportunity. Today's decision will provide radio listeners throughout the country with a better and more meaningful radio everyday life. The majority of the sizes, together with the broadcasting actors, will make it possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e468	I want to address some of what the representative said at the end of his post: the bright future that local radios will have. There we get a different feedback. The small local radios are important to the community, but they live in a very uncertain future. They have been told that they can still send on the FM network, but this network is worn out and useless, we get a hearing from the same representative. But he doesn't say anything about what and how to finance this. What will it cost for the small local radios to use the FM network in the future? What investments do they have to make when the big ones can't afford them? Can they afford to do that? Why did the representative not address the costs of this important issue for the small local radios?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e475	The notification clearly states that the small local radios should be properly maintained and that they should be secured through the FM network. The FM network has major challenges today, and they have major challenges in relation to the major broadcasting activities. But it is still possible to send on a local level on the FM network, as it is today. Local radios also own a part of a network that will be used when they are to have their local broadcasts on the network, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e482	Like the representative Simensen, I am also an avid radio listener, and I also have opinions about the content of the radio. But I think we should leave that in this context. There are other venues to discuss it. What we've been busy about, and many in the industry have been concerned about, are the costs of digitizing radio. It is clear from both the message and the recordings we have received that there are a lot of radios that need to be scrapped. It's not right, as the representative Simensen says, that it's just buying an adapter. This requires that the radio has an entrance that allows you to use the adapter. But that's not my question. My question goes to drivers who listen to radio, and who have to install new equipment to listen to radio. What will the cost of a driver be?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e491	As I have been told, the adapters for car radios are already on sale, and this is a few hundred kroner in order to have an adapter to make their normal, normal car radio available for digital transmissions. The cost of that use will be minimal. I think the same car radio user will replace his mobile phone many times. If we compare it with the investment you make in the car radio adapter, the cost will certainly not be what prevents him from receiving digital radio in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e496	What got me to take a line was that I might think that the representative Simensen jumped a little slightly over the question from the representative Thomsen connected to the local radios. Like all other stations, local radios need good predictability, and it could not be too much to start a targeted job of clarifying which stations are to be regarded as local radio, and which – I had almost said – fall outside. After all, we have made a proposal on the matter that the government has to start this work in order to make it visible that they will give local radio stations a good predictability. We might have been a little surprised that the government parties did not agree to that proposal. We would like to hear the representative Simensen elaborate a little bit on why, and if not there is a need to do such a work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e503	As far as local radios are concerned, I just want to repeat that their well-being will be preserved. Now I don't have a figure on what it will cost to upgrade and maintain a future local radio network based on FM technology – so I'm going to be honest – but I fully trust that the job started after the decision today also includes creating a future for local radios. That is also stated in the communication. So their everyday life will be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e508	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e512	Let there be no doubt that the Progress Party also sees the need for new technology in hearing radio and digital platforms, and finding future, good solutions. However, the question is, when to look ahead in such a long time perspective as is now being done – and with the costs of implementing a new technology – whether to look back as far as you can now to find the technological solution. DAB did come once in the early 1980s, and it's with respect to report very long ago. That it's going to be tomorrow's solutions, we think it's a little weird, especially when you see what technology has today, with the Internet, with mobile broadband where 3G, 4G and all the Gs come up like pearls on a string, and evolution goes a lot, a lot faster. Today's youth is used to dealing with something to do, so you do it using mobile broadband. That's also what's going to be the future. That's why we don't join the majority in this case. We simply believe that the wrong technology has been chosen. We want to wait for this, because technology can actually be out-of-date when it comes into use. We're also worried about closing down the FM network. As far as I know, we're the first country in the world to do that. In other countries where DAB has been used, the old way of sending has also been preserved. If you close the FM, the big players, like NRK, P4 and not least the electronics industry, will benefit from it. It is clear that the electronics industry, which is going to sell radios with the possibility of taking in DAB, is probably a clear supporter of changing technology choices – perhaps quite frequently, because this means buying new radios. So the introduction of DAB by force, we think it's a bad way to do it, especially when you're going to shut down the FM network. Another thing that concerns us is – if the consumer does not follow the strategy set by the government and the majority here at Stortinget – that you do not replace the radio towers to the same extent. In fact, the radio as such could be a loser. We think that'll be quite unfortunate, but it's a risk the radio gets to take. For the NRK, it's not a big problem. The NRK always does what the NRK does: when they meet economic challenges, they ask the Ministry of Culture, who again through the Council of State asks the Stortinget for more money. And you're also going to do that for DAB. Last week it became known that there is a demand from the NRC that we have to increase the license for next year, just for example. implementing the digitalisation of the radio. It's easy for the NRK to come to the Stortinget and ask for more money, and here in the house, it's a majority that the wishes of the NRK go through. I think it's an unfortunate way to fund it. So it's a distortion of competition against other actors. It is not that the licence fee will depend on how many listeners or viewers NRK have, but it is also based on the needs of the NRK. So the NRK can probably take it quite calmly; they'll probably get the money they need to meet the challenge that's coming in the future. The NRK is also a member of the DAB, simply because they've spent hundreds of millions of dollars on the DAB standard. I expect the Council of State, now that we have the debate today, to explain how much the NRK has spent on DAB in total. There's a number that's been called, and there's a number that I expect the Council of State to join in this debate. At the same time, I also expect the Council of State to tell me what the cost is to achieve the goal – over 99 pst. digital radio coverage. It's an ambitious goal. It is known from experience that reaching the first percentages, which the rapporteur had in mind, is in many ways, while it is reaching the last percentages that trigger the large costs. In fact, I also expect the Council of State to come up with its comments. What Ib Thomsen and Olemic Thommes brought up in the exchange of lines with Simensen, on how to handle local radios in a good way, is also not clear in the message how to solve. In other words, there are many uncertainties in the message. A certain framework has been created for what will be the future, but there has been no response to the concrete challenges and the small challenges, as I also addressed in my line exchange with the representative Simensen – what will be the cost to consumers. You have to scrape almost 20 million radios. Clearly, they need to be replaced if you are to maintain the same listening numbers. Some people have to pay for those radios, so that's also the consumer. The same applies to listening in the car. I have called a number of negotiators before this debate and received very different answers on which solutions to choose. If you are going to choose a solution with an adapter installed in a car without using cigarettes and without having it glued up on the windscreen, which is illegal to that extent, you are talking about an installation of several thousand kroner. It's the consumer who's going to get that bill as well, and in sum it's the consumer who's going to pay the most. Nor is it so unusual for the red-green government. I'm also amazed that you've let the FM's decay go as far as it's done, and that it's used as a argument to shut down the FM's, when you're going to hang up the DAB's transmitters on the same masts. Finally, I would like to mention in the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e535	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e540	I can't let not comment on the choice of technology. The progress party claims that the DAB technology we choose is old-fashioned. The interesting thing is that both web and mobile network technologies are older than today's DAB technology. My question is that the Progress Party wants to profile itself as the party that is changing Norway, and today they prove how to do it – that everything is going to be the same. I record that they say in their comments that if the FM network goes out, there is no way back. Many will surely ask: to what? Øyvind Korsberg's party colleague Ib Thomsen said in an interview with Dagbladet that if the Progress Party comes to power, they will work to reverse today's decision. My question is, is the same position today, and in that case what reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e547	It's a little dependent on when the Progress Party comes to power, but we have an ambition to come to power in 2013. Our ambition is to take care of those listeners who currently have access to the FM network. We put in our comments, as it is clear here, that continuing the FM network is a good way to take care of it. Then you'll see how far you've come with DAB when it happens, and what is possible to implement. The main appeal point we have against this message is that you turn off the FM network and just go over to the DAB. It will only serve the major actors, as I mentioned in my post, NRK and P4, but the NRK is used to receiving special treatment from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e552	First, I would just like to comment briefly that if the representative of Korsberg is so concerned about consumer expenditure, perhaps mobile broadband is not the way to go. We are several people who have blinked when we have heard a little too long on the radio on the mobile phone and then get the phone bill. It's not free. But my question concerns the selection of radio channels. 119 municipalities have only three radio channels, and several of the municipalities are located in the representative of Korsberg's home state, Troms. Does not the representative of the people of Korsberg enjoy a better radio offer in his own county?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e559	The radio offer in Troms is very good. Troms are probably on top of radio listening at NRK. I have to take advantage of the opportunity to decorate NRK Troms, who have good shipments. It's probably going to be Bjerkaas on the listener's bench, but I'm actually saying that. So to the answer: Of course, we might want the listeners in Troms to get a better offer, but the most important thing for us is that everyone gets an offer. That's the danger of what this message says, that's to reach the same listener coverage that you have on the FM network today. In the case of mobile broadband, it is clear that costs are involved. But what you see — and developments are as fast as the actual development of mobile broadband — is that costs are falling significantly. It is also appropriate for the public to take the investment in the case of mobile broadband, because it is part of the infrastructure in Norway, together with road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e568	After hearing the Korsberg of the Progress Party, I think we should be happy that he is not the Minister of Culture in Norway today, who is to direct the development of the radio offer to the Norwegian people, for such a lack of leadership is to be looked for a long time. It reminds me most of the ostrich that sticks its head in the sand. It's completely unclear what the Progress Party really wants when it comes to the development of the radio. What you can wonder about is if you want to keep the old FM network, which will mean extra costs, not just for the NRK, but just as much for P4 and for Radio Norway, which can get extra costs of between 30 and 40 million. kr annually, or is the internet to be used in the future? If that is the Internet, I have to ask a representative who comes from District Norway: what about ensuring the security of society and the preparedness for which the NRK is responsible, and which you are totally dependent on if there is a real storm that leads to the power grid being down? Who, then, is to be responsible for the preparedness? In Progress Party Norway, we would not have a radio network offering such an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e573	It is correct, as the representative Gjul says, that it costs to maintain the FM network. It also costs to maintain the road network, it costs to maintain the network, and it costs to maintain public buildings. But this government has put on the yellow leadership shirt when it comes to not caring for maintenance. Yes, it costs to operate something. We in the Progress Party have recognised that all along, and that also characterises our proposals in a number of other areas. If you think that operating something in a good way is not investing in maintenance costs, well, that's not what we're doing. We also believe that preparedness is well maintained, and that is why we do not want to close the FM network. So you want both the DAB and you want the FM network. With today's technology, there are many ways to address future preparedness needs, including in the case of mobile broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e583	The issue of the digitisation of the radio medium has been in the air for a long time – for many years, on which the rapporteur was involved. I think I'm going to open this post by stressing the importance of actually making a decision, that is, the significance of the decision, because we want a transition to the digital platform. We want an industry that is offensive to using new technology. We want innovation, and we want someone to use resources to develop the technological platform we can put at our disposal. If you want to dry up, you have to have a decision. The gravity of the decision is significant. We saw that when we carried out the digitisation of television. Then there was also in front a big and quite hard discussion, which was somewhat similar to this, but much, much tougher, and with many and strong lobbyists who joined. At the moment the decision was taken, we saw how technology evolved, how those who were working on innovation in content and products, started, and we saw how the network that we were discussing initially actually evolved in just a few months. This is the Right's starting point to support the government's proposals in this matter. We believe that it is essential to make a decision and thus give actors good predictability in relation to the work we hope and expect them to do. We look forward to a technological regime that makes — or at least strongly marginalise — the importance of the concession regimes superfluous. Through this digitization, we can get rid of the concessions. It should also be noted by the Progress Party. There has been a goal for the Right in all, every year to release the troubled and difficult processes that radio concessions have proved to be. By building a platform like this, we'll be able to release the forces within the radio area. Then it'll be easy to get started. There will be predictability for investors. One will be able to build stations on a broad scale both in relation to the audience, audiences, and also in relation to products. I don't think we know the radio product today. I think that when we discuss this, we have a picture of the Babysitting for the little ones in the head. In fact, I think the content of the radio medium is going to evolve a lot just in a short time. We're going to see a radio medium that communicates much more targetedly with the target audience, and that's going to communicate with new products that we, as I said, don't know the content of. That's what we're going to want. It will vitalize Medie-Norway in all areas. So we are largely in favour of the government's proposals, but there are some points that we think should be addressed and which we may think have been dealt with slightly. First of all, the question I was about in the line shift, which relates to the future fate of local radios. Work needs to be carried out to provide clearer signals and to provide the predictability of timetables in relation to the development of those stations. Many of them are small, but many of them are not so small anymore, and many of them, if they get the freedom to evolve, might be able to fasten themselves in relation to new target groups. We'll be able to see a new type of local radio that is not just – what I'm saying – strictly geographically motivated, but that will also perhaps move more towards target groups than we've been used to so far. We want innovation, and we also want developments in the local radio. Then they had to get a clearer signal and a clearer signal to deal with. We have expectations that the government will come along, even if the government parties would not support our proposals on this. The second question that I think is well worth hanging out on is how the process we are now taking up in Norway, not only in the Nordic perspective, but also in the European perspective. It is a rather bold exercise as the first country in Europe, perhaps in the world, to make a decision to shut down the network in a situation where we must admit that Norway as a foreign country in the EU has a rather marginal role to play. Many will look at this resolution, but how important we are in the big picture, I think we should have a certain degree of accuracy. Nevertheless, when we are ready to do this, it is because we see that the technological platform on which we are based is also the review melody in the European countries. It is also the case that in a small and manageable market we have a different manoeuvrability from that in the big countries, where the market and market players are completely different and with a completely different impact. We in a small country have a weak basis for building many technological platforms in relation to the sustainability that many large countries have in order to – what to say – lower their shoulders a little. We support the grip that's being done, but we're not doing it without realizing that this is a road that has to be done to some extent while you're going. The second perspective is of a Nordic nature. What's great about the analogue system is that it works all over the world. I remember when I was a boy that it was very funny to turn on the knot and get in stations around the world. Listening to radio across borders and dealing with others is actually a value. In the Nordic sense, it might be more important than ever to think about it. The fact that we have parallel technological developments in the Nordic countries, perhaps primarily in the Scandinavian countries, can represent a great and important added value that I think there is a need to emphasise, and which I think should be a media policy theme in the Nordic Council context. In the situation where a large number of new channels are opened, it is an interesting perspective in relation to innovation in this area that 25 million people in Scandinavia have a potential language community. The traditions so far tell us that the media channels do not like to operate across – even the Nordic – borders. But I have a certain belief that the private sector can break some roads, as the public service companies in the Nordic countries are hesitating to do, even though a lot has happened in that area as well. I believe it is a potential for innovation and development across the Scandinavian border. There's been a lot of talk about car radio here. It had to be a great goal, I think, that you can get in the car in Oslo, drive to Copenhagen and don't have to press any button to have the car radio with you all the way. It gives this technology a starting point for solving. In summary, the decision itself is important for further development. If you want a development, you also have to dry it. Although we, as a small country, choose to take the lead in the decisions, we do see that at least all the European countries' experiments in relation to a technological platform indicate that this is a risk we should take, and that through this we give the industry the necessary signals to do, so that we not only get an update, but also, I think, a promising opportunity for the development of the radio in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e606	I think the representative Olemic Thommess made an incredibly good contribution. I fully agree with him when it comes to focusing on decision-making. That's exactly what we're doing today. We make a decision, and we take it together, just to start the development to meet the future. But Thommessen's future government colleagues from the Progress Party dare not make a decision. They ask in their remark the government postponed the decision on the choice of technology. At the same time, they say that if they come into government position in 2013, they will be working to reverse today's decision. My question to the representative is: Can he guarantee here and now that they will never be able to implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e613	Now I think maybe the last two main posts that have been held show that we might not look as dark at what the Progress Party sometimes does. I noticed the representative of Korsberg's response to Simensen in the previous line change, where he said that the question would be a little related to what the development actually is like. My confidence in the Progress Party and the common sense is that once all actors have been given an opportunity to set themselves up through this decision – and probably in the next two years have been set up and perhaps spent billions of money to actually deal with the Storting decision – the Progress Party will put it into the assessment of the situation. I hope that a good result will then be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e623	President, I hope you know what to buy for your grandmother for Christmas. Because I know that! I'm either going to buy a new radio, or I'm going to bring her old radio and give her an adapter and so extend her lifetime, because now all NRK channels are going into every home. That means my grandmother can listen to NRK always classic on her old radio far up in Valdres where she lives. We will have a wide and better coverage in the district. This is primarily about the need for better radio provision for all living in the long - term country. It is, as the representative Gjul was in his line to the representative Korsberg, an investment in the infrastructure, an investment in the emergency network and an investment in what is a free medium for people in Norway. I notice that the industry agrees that there is also an investment in the future of the radio. And about the future -- that's a word we're going to use a lot here today -- I think we have a lot of nostalgia connected to radio. The radio has had an enormous cultural and historical significance in Norway. Often when we debate radio, we imagine people clustering around a hidden radio during the war to listen to broadcasts from England, or we see pictures of our parents who record lap times from the direct transfers from the world championship on skates in Alma Ata in the 1960s. It's the will over the meaning the radio has had. But when I read the comments of the Progress Party, they sound like movie newspapers voices. The radio should be something from the past, something that our parents were doing. Fortunately, today the Progress Party does not get a majority. We're going to take the radio into the future, and it's going to be further developed as a medium on a digital platform, because we don't want the radio to be anything just nostalgic. We want to share it in the modernisation and digitisation that has taken place in other media. For my part and for the SV, it makes the impression when people who have made radio for 30 years, throughout their lives, and burn for the medium, ask for an exit date and ask for the grips we are doing today. That's what I'm busy listening to. Of course, we also have some challenges when we're going to make a big deal. Several have been faced with the challenges of local radio. It is clear that digital equipment is more expensive than FM transmissions. I am pleased that we are adding that local radios with one transmitter will be forwarded after a possible turn-off date, and I would ask the Council to work closely with the small local stations to ensure local content and to avoid the large commercial take-over. There are also possibilities here for local radios. I'm going to assume that many people in the room remember the discussion that was about, for example, The student radio in Trondheim. Digitization will provide space for more radio channels, and it will also benefit the small ones if we can take them with us. Another challenge is that we have to bring the people with us. That's why we have strong criteria for the turn-off date. It's about everyone working together to make this a success. The industry, which is sitting here today, has a huge interest in people still listening to radio. That is why we have set criteria for listening habits, for the radio provision to be improved, for everyone across the country to have radio coverage and access to digital radio. We have an exciting time meeting both in Stortinget and in the radio industry. As mentioned above, one of the factors becomes that everyone has access to a better offer. If the NRK Stortinget gets more listeners, still remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e647	I heard that the representative revealed what she was going to buy from presanger for Christmas. It won't be exciting any more when you do it from the Greatness Chair! I see that the representatives from SV get wet in their eyes, and the heart has to beat extra fast today when they hear the sound of cheers and of people clapping at Elkopf and Lefdal – because they now see huge sales of new radios, and that sales are increasing considerably. But what does an SV heart feel, that is, the same heart that knocks fast, when you have to scrape 10 to 15 million radios and experience a big radio mountain? What is the environmental perspective of SV on scrapping so many radios? What does the heart of SV feel in this matter – the environmental heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e654	First, I want to say that my grandmother still has no access to the NRK Stortinget, so she can't hear this debate. So I bet that until Christmas there will be a well-kept secret up in Valdres what I am going to purchase. The SV-heart banks for radio, and it knocks for the environment. We have good arrangements for the return of electronics. The electronics industry makes a lot of money in Norway on its own. Obviously, we have challenges with consumption, but it's not the radio industry alone that's going to take that noise. We will have good arrangements for both the purchase of the adapter and the return of used radios.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e661	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e664	It is positive that there is broad political support for the broad lines of the Single European Act, which I would say is both very offensive and forward-looking. Today’s use of FM and analogue technology has some limitations that do not provide potential for multiple channels and new services. Switching to digital radio can provide better and wider radio services in the form of multiple channels and other digital services. The digitisation will mean a lot to District Norway, which will get a better deal than today. It will allow the radio media to compete with new digital media in a way that they cannot do today. It will also allow for increased uptake of the radio medium. There is a widespread perception among broadcasters and here in Stortinget that the radio medium had to be digitized sooner or later. The question is when to do so, but also what technical standard should be on the basis. Radio has a very important societal importance, and diversity is a factor that makes it impossible for us, as politicians, to leave the development of the market to the full. The primary task of the authorities will be to safeguard the interests of listeners in such a change of technology. Previously, the size of the broadcast in the digital future has been a key factor in the digitalisation of the radio media, in order for technology choices to be mainly driven by actors. That principle is also maintained in this Communication. The Government's proposal is binding, while requiring the closure of the FM network. There are requirements for consumers. That Communication underlined that the Governing Authorities would not allow the FM broadcast to be closed without replacing it with an offer that would continue to ensure that the entire population had access to the radio broadcasts. There is a requirement for NRK channels to have a population coverage equivalent to today's P1 coverage on FM. Commercial channels and their population coverage will also be required digitally. It has also said something about other demands for digital radio transition, that it should give listeners added value in terms of multiple channels. Content, services and improved sound and reception conditions are required. Several have been on the local radios. It is clear that local radios play a very important role in communicating news, but also in creating debate and informing local communities on important issues. Therefore, it is important that they are taken care of, and I feel secure in what is stated in the communication and in the comment from the Committee, that local radios should be well-managed in the future. It has also been said that the smallest should be allowed to continue broadcasting on FM networks if you wish. Other consumer-related issues have also been addressed. I think a lot of radio replacements will happen naturally, just because you'll have access to other services if you buy new digital radios than those you had with the old radio. There will automatically happen some replacements of radios, and I think this will be something that many will think of as a nice opportunity just to get a new radio that will give them more for the money. This is a message that is both offensive, clear and not least very optimistic on behalf of the radio medium. It will be exciting to observe how this will affect the future uptake of the radio medium in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e683	As the leader of the Burma network on the Stortinget, I have this week met several representatives of democracy movement and opposition in Burma who have either had to flee the country or who are now trying in various ways to get there – past censorship and through the barriers of one of the most closed regimes in the world – with mass communication and mass media to the people, with the risk of their own security. This I'm starting to put the debate a little bit into perspective. In Norway we have freedom of expression, and our conditions are not comparable to those in Burma. The debate on the digitalisation of radio is also not a debate for or against freedom of expression, but the debate is about how we facilitate channels and arenas where this freedom of expression is to take place. The Christian People's Party is concerned with diversity in the radio medium. It is a fundamental approach for us when we deal with this matter. I'm not going to go into what the president buys for Christmas or wants to go to Christmas, but now it's far more common to get literature and reading material for Christmas than radio. In that regard, I could imagine tipping off the party program of the Christian People's Party. In fact, it says the following: ‘KrF believes it is important to ensure a good and diverse radio service across the country and therefore wants the radio to be digitised as soon as possible. The digital broadcasting of radio is the form of distribution that ensures equal access to most channels and a varied range of programmes in Norway. The KRF will release a variety of radio actors, both NRK, organisations and commercial public broadcasters.’» The Christian People's Party has long prioritised the digitisation of radio, and we've long called for transition to digital radio and an exit date for the FM network. We've done that because digital radio gives listeners access to much more channels. Today, large parts of District Norway do not have access, and that means that people in the districts have a worse offer than people in the central districts. As a result, digital radio developments will give us a more comparable offer across the country. The Government has set out some criteria for implementing the final closure of the FM network in 2017. Now, in many areas, it is precisely political decisions that drive development, including in the field of technology. Much of the point of setting an exit date is just to ensure predictability both for the industry, which invests heavily, and for the listeners, so they know what they have to deal with in the future. The Christian People's Party mainly supports the structure set up by the government, while at the same time we believe that there appears to be a bit of a strong sanctuary in relation to future developments, which in turn helps to reduce predictability and create more uncertainty about the transition to digital radio, among other things. for investors, industry and users. This applies to criteria that may appear to be slightly diffuse, including: the criteria for added value for listeners and technical adaptation requirements for automotive radio, and not least the requirement for 50 pst. will listen to a digital platform on a daily basis in 2015. It will quickly appear as if you're biting your tail if you're first going to tell the listeners which way the progress is going, but at the same time say you're waiting and seeing if they're actually going that way. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants a slightly tighter arrangement, and I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in this regard. We mainly support the arrangement of the government, but we want an even more obligating arrangement that ensures more predictability. The Christian People's Party says yes to broadcasting, we say yes to a good offer across the country, and we say yes to diversity in the radio medium.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e703	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e709	Today's debate is very interesting to listen to because here you have the extremes represented. And there are some unusual extremes, because here we have the Progress Party, which goes with its back into the future, and which is not taking any chances at all, and then we have the Christian People's Party on the other hand, which appears to be even more avid and even progressive than that government dares to be, and which wants to be detailed and committed already in the 2012 government budget in relation to the implementation of the DAB. Then I have some challenges for the Christian People's Party. For one of the reasons why the government is moving a little more slowly than the Christian People’s Party wants, the criterion is precisely ‘in the interests of consumers’. My question is, isn't it important to get nationwide broadcasts for the whole population, and to take the time you need to develop the development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e716	I thank the representative for this challenge, because it gives me the opportunity to state that ensuring a good offer across the country is a main motivation for implementing the digitalisation of radio. So ensuring that there is an expanded offer across the country is a very important criterion behind the Christian People's Party. But precisely in order to bring about that development, it is important that we ensure predictability for the actors, and there we – although we mainly support the approach put forward by the government – ask some questions about the slightly diffused criteria related to the technical requirements of the car and whether it is a necessary requirement that half should listen to a digital platform in 2015. Because then you go around saying that you have told the listeners which way to go, but at the same time you wait and see if they go that way before you make the final decision. And then you can create increased uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e724	The debate here today has opened up to great views, such as Håbrupt, of the importance of radio to resistance movement, and the small concerns about the importance of radio in the lives of individual representatives. I have a radio standing on the guest room that doesn't work anymore, but has to stand up for family reasons, because it was the radio that was buried in the hill above the farm of the father in those years of radio was not allowed. I'm going to confess a sin, yes actually a crime. I also think it was quite rough at the time when I started it. When I was little, it lived an old man next to me, and we did a lot of funny, experimental things with technology. For example, we laid. Mother's radio programme. We set up transmitters and set up radio programs, and Mom could sit with the FM receiver on top of the hill and bring in our radio programs. It was very illegal at that time. This was while the Workers' Party was overthrown the country and long before Langslet with his liberal thoughts came. So we probably did a big crime at that time. A lot of things have happened about media developments since Einar and I sent a secret radio program to Mom. There's a lot that has happened in terms of technology, there's a lot that has happened in terms of content, and there's a lot that has happened in terms of the way we communicate news. And that development is going to go faster and faster. I think maybe the most important thing being done today is that it's probably the last time we sit and adopt technology. I really hope that's the last time the Storting decides which technology to use in providing information at all levels. In the past, we've made decisions on color television and various other technological solutions, but now I think we've reached the point where it's the last time we adopt technology. In the opinion of the Left, we have reached the point of no return, so this decision just has to be made. I think it's almost like just completing what we've already decided here in Stortinget. There is obviously a lot of stress in the committee because someone then has to buy a new radio. I have tried to sum up: in my little apartment in Old Town, I think I have nine radios, and if I count on all the platforms where I can pick up the radio, like my TVs, my cell phones and all the other technical things I have, I think I have 14 ways to pick up the radio. Some of the radios are probably compatible with DAB in the future, some of them I have to probably put a duplicator on, some I have to probably discard, but my dad's radio from the war is still going to stand there, no matter how much DAB has been introduced. When we see how willing people are to implement new technologies, new platforms and new dolls in their lives, I don't think this is going to be the big threat. But what's the challenge in this is that we sit and adopt technologies. I think it's a basic wrong approach to the policy ahead. We've now reached this point with radio. But in the future, we have to believe that the technologies actually become the driving force in themselves – that people have such a desire to get the extra opportunity that lies in new technology, and that there are opportunities to put it into practice – not that politicians decide that it is the only solution. Finally, I would also like to stress that when Einar and I made pirate radio on the south side of Overhalla, it did not require much equipment. Getting into the FM connection doesn't require a lot of equipment. Getting into a DAB connection requires something else. That is why I want to underline what the opposition, both in the form of decisions and in the statements, has said: it is important to ensure that we get width, and also that the local radio provides an economic opportunity to enter that market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e741	This has become a debate about the radio media and Christmas presents. SV's representative wants to buy DAB radio for his grandmother, while Øyvind Hope prefers us to give our respective party programs to our friends. I will strongly advise against the latter. I think they all, most people appreciate radio for Christmas. In fact, the Norwegian population buys between 700,000 and 800,000 radio receivers every year. For me, it's important that people know what kind of radio they're going to buy. It's going to be a huge pile of garbage if people keep buying FM radio, which in any case gets out of date at some point. Then it is much more important that we give them good time in advance to shut down in 2017, so that they can invest in new equipment. I am very pleased that a large majority in the committee share our sense of reality and join the government's conclusion. It is therefore a broad political support for our digitalisation policy, which is offensive and forward-looking in an international context. For me, it is also important that the radio medium can now be digitised in line with others. So the question is not about, but when the digitization takes place. It's very expensive to distribute radio analogly and digitally at the same time, and a whole industry therefore wants to digitize the radio medium. The only condition we want to impose is the liquidation of the FM network. It will correspond to the process followed by a very successful transition to digital television. Administrations then ensure the social interests by laying down the conditions under which the transition takes place. For me, this digitisation is important. Trine Skei Grande talks about how many radio channels she can bring in at home in Oslo. In fact, there are as many as 119 municipalities in Norway today that have three to four national channels. With this conversion, they're going to get as good coverage as in the city, with 16-32 channels. There'll be more competition, there'll be more diversity, there'll be more choice. And the FM network is approaching the end in many places. Then we can choose: should we ask the radio channels to distribute twice, both digitally and analoguely, or should we say that now is the digitization that is the future? It's been calculated how much it costs the radio channels with double distribution. In the period 2017-2026 we expect that it will cost 700 million. kr extra to send both digitally and analoguely. Therefore, it is important that this money is used to make good radio for people – more radio channels for listeners. That's how we get more choices. In addition, digital radio is very important for receiving by car. It becomes much safer to receive signals there. So the Progress Party says they want mobile broadband instead. I don't know if the Progress Party was on the Internet in connection with the Ski World Cup. This is unstable. Besides, it costs a lot of money. One of the best things about radio is that it's free, that it's accessible to everyone. So if we're going to pay money to listen to the radio, it's a whole new type of media policy that I want to warn you about. There is little uncertainty about the choice of technology. Many countries in Europe are betting on digital radio with DAB and DAB+. This applies to the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and many more. The notification is also open to the fact that digitisation will have some costs, but this is mainly the case with the radio channels themselves. I don't know what the Progress Party means, but it sounds like it's the state that's going to take responsibility for setting up new radio transmitters. In reality, the radio channels themselves pay for this, and therefore they need this predictability. The digitisation of the radio medium shall not be transmitted by the authorities but shall be directed by the operator. Stakeholders, rather than the State, shall decide on investments in a nationwide digital network and a new digital radio content. And it's been the politics of all governments since 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e762	It's being opened for line change. It is possible the representative of Korsberg meant to ask for two lines, in which case that would be the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e767	It depends a little on the answer, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e772	The president was afraid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e775	You could draw two lines. Listening to Radio [[representative brings up a mobile phone]] But what I'm going to ask the Council of State questions about, and which the Council of State did not respond to, despite the call I made in my post, is the economic situation around this. Why has not an economic impact assessment been carried out on the costs of introducing that technology? In this context, the Council of State can also respond to the costs incurred by the NRC in the digitisation of radio. I notice that they want to increase the licence fee in order to charge these costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e784	We have here demonstrated the cultural policy of the Progress Party: we have to pay for it ourselves. We're going to pay for radio over mobile broadband, we're going to pay more on concerts, we're going to pay more for theater. This is the alternative of the Progress Party to our cultural policy and media policy. According to what I have been informed, I guess the NRK has paid about 200 million. kr in digital networks. It also has some other radio channels invested in. What is expensive for P4, for NRK and for Radio Norway, is to send in two ways, both digitally and analoguely. Therefore, there are many radio channels that refuse to establish more radio channels for listeners, because double distribution is expensive. So we leave this to be an activator, and then we have to make some demands in relation to when we're going to shut down the ground net. However, in the case of local radios owning the transmitter itself, the situation is different. It is then possible to send on the FM network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e793	Does the representative of Korsberg want another line? That's the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e797	Yes, I do. Now it is the case today that the listeners pay. So they're paying the NRK license. And there's no free lunch, neither for listeners nor others; it's paid anyway. But since I do not get a clear answer as such, I would just like to ask a question about a minority proposal from the Committee that is not adopted today. I can imagine hearing about how the Council of State has intended to meet this challenge, which local radio groups could be expected to use the FM network after 2017. Can the Council of State give a clear answer? Because many of the small users of the FM network are interested in it, and so far it's a little unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e806	There are a lot of local radios that own their own FM transmitter. For them, it is unproblematic to pass on to the FM network. But it's those people who send on the nationwide FM network, who today depend on getting a concession, who will no longer have the opportunity. There are many radio channels today – they have concession. I do not think it is a good policy that we should say on the part of the authorities that it and that radio channel meet certain criteria. I'd rather let this go freely within the digital network. But they're the ones that send completely locally, sending from one transmitter, who can do this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e811	I was in my post so far concerned with this with Nordic cooperation. In a previous round here in Stortinget in a row change, I asked the Council of State about this with Nordic coordination. Fortunately, I felt that she was positive about thinking in those paths. In the Nordic Council of Culture we now have a working group on media policy – I think I will choose to call it – which is cross-politically structured. That's where I'm going, and I'm going to bring this question up in such a context. But we know that there will be a turn on it in the Nordic context, it will have to be more sluggish than what we can mobilize in the Nordic Council. Well, then the governments have to. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she take initiatives towards the other two Scandinavian countries in relation to this? And what will she suggest to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e820	This took up the representative Olemic Thommess in the Questionnaire on 9 March this year. I want to repeat what I said then, that I want to look at the possibility of taking initiatives towards my Nordic colleagues in order to do this. There are many good opportunities for joint Nordic broadcasts when we get the digitalized network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e825	If Thommes wants another line, there's room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e828	Thank you. I noticed the answer then, March 9, but I might have hoped to get a little more answer today. This is both about the development of the technological platform and about legal cooperation, because for those countries that are behind us in the loop, there will still be concession regimes and things like that. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of perhaps the very coordination of these codes, and I would have almost said the pace of their liquidation, are important perspectives to address – and perhaps the most important thing. Because we see that the others are also working on DAB technology, so hopefully the technology is the same. But this is about an organisational part and a part related to law cooperation. There's this, at least to some extent, in traffic, I think, in Norway. And then the question is, Will the Minister for Transport also address this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e842	There are important reasons why Norway has to signal an earlier date of closure than the other Nordic countries, in order to digitise radio media in Denmark, for example, costs much less, there are much shorter distances. So we need to give the industry a much longer notice. It is clear that we have extensive cooperation with our Nordic colleagues in this area. We follow what they do, and everyone goes in the direction that Norway does in terms of digitisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e849	Governments were concerned that people should know which radio to buy. I very much agree with that. Then the Council will not recommend buying party programs for Christmas – now there is good and bad literature in all areas, including in that area. While I'm talking about quality, I also want to take the opportunity to say that the quality of the new diversity and of the new arena is up to the actors themselves, not least the NRK. However, other actors also need to show that they discharge their social responsibilities and responsibilities. But my question is just about predictability and what radio you are going to buy. When the government says that half of the listeners are going to use that platform every day in 2015, are you not in danger of biting yourself in the tail and saying that we are going to create predictability, but that assumes that you are actually starting to use the offer? If we don't, we'll turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e858	But we have to keep an eye on how the radio listens evolve. If it's the case that people don't see the added value of digital radio, it would be unfortunate to do this. So we have to keep an eye on developments, see if we can access the digital media, but we don't have to do it too early if a majority doesn't listen to the digital network. I am also concerned about the quality of radio stations, but I think it is relatively problematic today that we decide on certain criteria, who will be allowed to send on the nationwide FM network. Through this change, digitisation, it will be possible, as the representative will be aware, for the radio channels to be broadcast in any case – 16 to 32 channels throughout Norway. That gives the listeners the opportunity to define what is quality, and not the politicians, and I think that is a right development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e869	The decision we are making today will give people throughout the country a much better radio offer than they have today. Today there are 119 municipalities that only have three to four channels, and most that have only NRK. Then it is a little strange that the Progress Party, which is so concerned that the NRK should not have a monopoly, wants the NRK to have a monopoly in 119 of its municipalities. In addition, we have a number of municipalities where the DAB network only covers parts of the municipality. With the decision we are making today, we can get a good radio offer throughout the country. Today, DAB has 19 nationwide channels, and there will be many more. So it'll be a radio offer for every taste. Then you can ask questions about why it's so important to digitize. Well, we've already digitized the TV media, and we already saw how much better we got on TV. So we know that the FM network is over 50 years old. We know that it is expensive to maintain it and upgrade it. So the NRK will have additional costs of between 35 and 37 million. kr annually to continue to maintain and upgrade the FM network. We know that P4 will get costs that are even higher. Modern listeners don't just want three, four channels. Modern listeners want niche channels, they want a diversity to choose from. We see that you've got within the TV media, and it's also necessary for the radio to survive as a medium. On the part of the Workers' Party, we actually want the radio to survive and become a modern, forward-looking offer to the audience. So you can ask yourself the question: is the decision taken today by the Stortinget to adopt an exit date for the FM network, and that we choose to go further with the recommendations we have received on DAB technology? Today, there are already 40 countries using DAB technology, and recently Germany adopted an extension to provide two nationwide radio channels in Germany for the first time in over 60 years. As a result, Austria has now also adopted the same, and for many years the United Kingdom has had a strong expansion of this technology. They, together with Norway, are the two countries that are now going to become the precursor countries. The United Kingdom has already adopted a closure of its FM network in 2009 and will be left with only an FM offer for the small local radios. It's almost parallel to the decision we're making today. Then the representative Trine Skei Grande made it like this is the last time we adopted technology in Stortinget. It's completely wrong. We are not going to adopt any technology in Stortinget today. It's the actors' seas that determine which technology you choose. And I have to say that I'm completely incompetent in choosing which radio technology you're going to be on here. Then the Vorskrittsparteets Korsberg has now presented his cell phone and shown that he has a radio there. He says we can bet on the Internet instead. In fact, the mobile network works much worse than the radio network. If we are at a rock concert or, as the council said, the World Cup skiers, we risk not having a radio offer at all because the web is collapsing. So there's capacity problems connected to the Internet. It's not free, either. Now the representative of Korsberg can hear radio on his cell phone, but it is wisely covered by his employer, and that is not the case that the whole country's population has a radio covered by their employer. The last one is readiness considerations, which suggest that we should bet on a DAB technology in front of the Internet. The last argument being put forward, and which I think is a very important consideration to take, is the danger of siphoning when 7.5 million radios may have to be scrapped. Luckily, it's not like that. Many can already use their old radio. But compared to all the kind of electronic waste we already scrap, the radio share actually gets very small. In addition, we have very good return arrangements in Norway,
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e892	DAB+ or DAB – everyone understands, everyone wants, and everyone agrees that the radio in Norway should be switched to a digital platform. Everyone understands that the future digital is the future of radio. It is claimed that listening to the Progress Party is like listening to the Film Newsprint from the 1950s to the 1960s, even at the Nitimen with Kjell Thue, and that gathering around the radio is important. Now it's a radio channel in Norway that thinks it's gathering people around the radio, and it's Radio Norway. They have a program on Fridays five over nine called Geirs Grovis, and it gathers people around the radio, says Radio Norway. It's clear that the radio is developing. One got the biggest development when the NRK got competition. But everyone doesn't realize that you have to scrape so many radios that you can't keep using your old FM radio. Everyone doesn't realize that it's the media industry and the culture minister who has to decide when to scrape their radio, and not the radio listener himself. Everyone sees that DAB has been driven by three major radio operators, the electronics industry and everyone with special interests in the industry. The decision is in stark contrast to discussions in other countries. So DAB is not a new technology. You started sniffing this in the 1980s. It's the big national broadcasters that are behind this push. It is the need for these broadcasters that characterizes the solution that has been drawn up. The vision is that you should be able to drive a car across the country, it is said, and listen to the same station all the way. But not above the border, and not in the rest of Europe. So far you haven't come, and these visions are starting to crack. An EU report concludes that FM closure is politically inedible in Europe, and most of it works there, even if you disagree with it. Furthermore, the choice of platform remains uncertain in Europe. The EU proposes several standards, but largely favours what is called DRM, i.e. not DAB, which Norway chooses. Nor does the EU set a date for analogue closure. Thus, Norway is on a collision course with the EU, and can be saddened alone, with the consequences it has for our radio listeners. Norway is the first country in the world to decide to close. It has been said by several people. So there we are at the top. DAB shall be imposed by force. Forcing things is not an unknown phenomenon in Norway. How popular is the decision when people discover the consequences and what this involves? Norway, after all, is a small country. It can provide expensive radios. It can provide little access to equipment. The representative Kåre Simensen said this is going to be cheap dipshits. How cheap? What will it cost, and what is the access? It's said that the near-radio stations can use the old FM network. What are the consequences for the small radio stations? They are offered a network that is so useless that the big broadcasters won't use it, but that's good enough for the small ones. Or do they have to take the further costs of refurbishing it? The NRK has spent hundreds of millions of dollars building up the DAB network. Much may suggest that the owner, the Norwegian State – the Minister of Culture, the general meeting in the NRC, has assessed it so that there is no way back. The market has not seemed so far that DAB has been a solution – I am talking about the listeners. The listeners have not seen the light that the rest of the Storting has seen. But coercion is still the only way out. It is alarming that the NRK refuses to indicate how much money has been spent on this. Sweden has said they spent 600 million. kr before the government put its foot down and said: Here there will be no closure – we will let this development go naturally. Isn't it a cross of thought that NRK cuts programs and positions? They put down here and now. So they use the license money on infrastructure over content. This is very strange. Who will take the cost with 99.95 pst. digital radio coverage is also not mentioned in the message. The solution, as you know, is to increase the license. There is a well-known lever to provide revenues for such solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e920	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e923	After hearing the last speech, I'll be a little stunned. It seems that the Progress Party is in its own closed world, and that you get its information from one source. I'm not going to mention the name from this pulpit, but it's a very one-sided information, as is the argument why you don't want to introduce DAB technology today. It is also perceived that DAB is a Norwegian invention when the representative Thomsen has the floor. Actually, it's not. It's an international standard. It is claimed that the EU chooses DRM. But DAB, DAB+ and DRM belong to the same technological family, under the common name Eureka 147. So it's not any strange decisions that are made here today. I wish the Progress Party were a little more listening to what the industry has of knowledge in relation to the technology they themselves had to choose in order to introduce new technology in connection with radio transmissions. I wanted to take the floor because, as rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to thank you for a good and exciting debate. I think that there have been many good contributions with diverse and good breadth in the argument, although quite a lot distinguishes the majority and the Progress Party. In any case, this pulpit should be used to argue for its views. I think that those who have spoken in the matter have made it clear in an excellent way. It has gone from Christmas gifts via pirate radio to democratic development in Burma. I think it makes the radio space visible in society in an excellent way. But like Gunn Karin Gjul, I want to correct something, so it won't be suspended in the air: the Storting doesn't agree with the technology. We have left that to the actors themselves. But the most important thing we do today is to make decisions about shutting down the FM network. The rest we leave to the actors. The result is that the decisions they make, and the role they will then play, will benefit us listeners at a later stage. Anyway, I wish all of us good luck, and I especially wish the actors good luck, and I hope that the decision today is the start of a new and better radio everyday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e936	Let me start with something that I didn't do in my main post, namely thanking the case rapporteur for doing a good job. We've had a good process in the committee. Then, finally, I'm just going to comment on some of the claims, or the description of our policy, which is made in the debate – that we go with our backs into the future, this with the Film Paper, etc. You could do that. And I actually understand that the position is doing that, because when you lack good, relevant, professional arguments, this is a way of trying to ridicule the opponent. Because what we're talking about is not an intermediate station – we want to go further in technological development. If you make a scale, you could say it started with the FM network, you have DAB, and then you have mobile broadband, and that's the last part we see as the future solution. We're not stopping at an intermediate station called DAB, which came in 1981, and we think it's the future. It'll be something like a frog sitting down in a well. Then he looks up and sees the sky up there and thinks it's the whole world. So there's no us. But if you lack good arguments, you have to convey the message that the position in this room has done. So it's said that there are 119 municipalities that only get three radio channels. A bit of a joke, you could take it as an argument for a community merger – if you had merged those municipalities, you would have had full coverage. Well, that simple isn't the world. Because what really matters is where you have coverage, and how many listeners can take radio. To reach the last – when you're going to over 99 pst. – is what is going to cost, and it is the consumer who is going to get this bill. It has been said that something is completely wrong – that it is not the Stortinge that adopts the technology, but the actors themselves. It should be quite simple for everyone in this room to see the following: It is the government that promotes matters to the Storting, and it is the big-time representatives who sit in this room and vote. The actors don't. It's that simple. It's a technology choice we're going to make today. The next debate is likely to come when we are going to debate the closing date for DAB. I am happy to have that debate, no matter where I am, whether it's in this house or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4067]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e963	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e972	This case is about transferring the Forensic Institute and its responsibility from the University of Oslo to the National Institute of Public Health. It's a transfer that gets Storting's full support. The transfer is a result of what, at least until now, seems to be a good work done by an interim board of the Forensic Institute, in connection with the fact that there has been some concern about the organisation and work of the Forensic Institute and, in particular, the ability to perform the important tasks of the Forensic Institute on behalf of society. So the committee is fully committed to the transfer and the practical consequences of this. The Committee takes the view that the National Institute of Public Health will be able to better manage the activities of the Institute of Forensic Medicine, that there will then be more coherent services, similar to those of the National Institute of Public Health. The setting says a few words about the two environments that are building up education in legal genetics, both at the University of Tromsø and the University of Stavanger. What happens at the University of Tromsø is the result that the bulk of the population have asked for an environment to be built there, while what happens in Stavanger was done more on their own initiative and on the basis of the fact that a laboratory is established there. When one reads the setting, a few impressions may be that the teaching that takes place in the two places is very different, but it is not. In reality, it's quite similar. I therefore hope that the Institute of Forensics and the National Institute of Public Health will also look at the environment in Stavanger regarding the possibility of solving the tasks of the Institute of Forensics, not least in relation to analyses, but also in relation to accessing good professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e979	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement and stress that an overall committee joins the proposal in the proposal for the transfer of the Institute of Forensic Medicine from the University of Oslo to the National Institute of Public Health. The forensic institute is being transferred on the same resource basis as today. It is stated in the case that it is only in the event of a possible co-location at a later stage that the change will have budgetary implications. An overall committee also supports that 11 million. kr related to profits from autopsy and other mission activities are transferred to the National Institute for Public Health and may be used for necessary non-recurring costs. Furthermore, an overall committee indicates that the government announces that the departments concerned will carry out a broader review of the field of legal expertise and will join it. The majority of the Committee also points out that the University of Oslo and the National Institute for Public Health shall ensure that the need for post-transmission research and education is met by the conclusion of the necessary agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e990	The Ministry of Knowledge has promoted a proposal on the economic and administrative consequences of the transfer of the Forensic Institute to the Institute of Public Health. The Ministry is in favour of the Forensic Institute being transferred on the same resource basis as that laid down in the 2011 budget. The basis for the decision to transfer the Institute of Forensic Medicine to the Institute of Public Health has been drawn up by the Institutes themselves, the University of Oslo, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and Police, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Knowledge. The Public Health Institute is suitable for contributing to the development of the expertise and also for ensuring the effectiveness and security of supply. The Public Health Institute will also be able to contribute to the development of competences and to the establishment of a wider expert environment. whereas, in this context, assessments have not been carried out by an overall Institute of Expertise, but emphasis has been placed on the fact that the transfer is not intended to impede further work; The transfer of the Forensic Institute itself has been presented here as an organisational and budgetary matter and should therefore not be seen as part of professional work on the use of DNA in criminal justice. For this work, some premises have been put through, among other things. The processing of the changes in the Criminal Procedures Act concerning the extension of DNA records, cf. Inner. O. No 23 for 2007-2008 and Ot.prp. No 19 for 2006-2007. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Police, in cooperation with the other departments concerned, will carry out a wider review of the field of law, including the provision of expert environments. The Ministry of Justice and Police will also assess the need for further investigations into the field of forensics. The Forensics Institute is responsible for providing expert analyses and investigations on behalf of the police and prosecution authorities, courts, navs, hospitals and private entities. The majority of the funding comes today from the Ministry of Justice and the Police, and we are in favour of transferring it to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which is responsible for the Institute of Public Health. Reimbursement of expenditure on DNA analyses in children’s hazard matters under the Children’s Act shall continue to be provided by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. The Forensics Institute is engaged in the teaching of medical students and research within its disciplines. This is a smaller but important part of the business. After the transfer, this shall be done under a contract between the Forensic Institute and the University of Oslo. The University will also assign and cover the costs of staff of the Forensic Institute in Professor II positions. Overall, the transfer shall contribute to providing more appropriate frameworks for the activities of the Forensic Institute and I am confident that the Institute will continue to fulfil an important function and provide high-quality services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1012	There is, as I said, an overall committee behind the position, but the opposition has a comment that the majority has chosen not to vote in favour of. It concerns this which has been revealed by the Data Protection Authority that large amounts of personal data of a very sensitive nature have been stored by the RMI and that there have also been biological materials that have been illegally stored and used for research, etc. We have been concerned that a change in economic and administrative responsibility would lead to a delay in cleaning up in these serious cases that have been revealed. I want the Council of State to assure me that this cleaning work will go its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1017	I can assure you. We have been very concerned about this ourselves, as this report from the Data Protection Authority appeared while we were dealing with the transfer case itself. However, we have had very good contact with the University of Oslo, which now has a primary responsibility for thoroughly passing through and rectifying all errors and deficiencies as they are revealed, and that the Data Protection Authority's report is also followed up. Of course, we also have a very close contact with the Ministry of Justice and the Police, who are also concerned about clearing up these matters without going beyond the transfer to the Institute of Public Health. Personally, I am convinced that the Institute of Forensics will fit well into the other responsibilities of the Institute of Public Health, and that we can therefore hope that both these matters will be concluded and that such matters will not be dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1024	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4068]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1042	The President will draw attention to the fact that when matters are dealt with, it is an advantage that at least the rapporteur is in the Chamber. The other involvement of the Committee shall not be commented on. But the President can start by referring to the debate. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It obviously assumes that the Council of State is present when you get that far, but it will show up. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is usually the rapporteur on the matter, Thomas Breen, who is not present. The President shall inculcate the benefit of the presence of representatives when dealing with matters. The President then tries to take a little break until the Financial Committee finds it too good to be present in the Grand Duchy. – There is an opportunity to sign up on the list of speakers in the absence of both the case rapporteur and the Council of State. You can draw on the list of speakers in Stortinget by clicking on the screen where you will find articles. – The representative of Breen is then cordially welcome to the staging room to make a post, while the rest of us have waited a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1061	I'm so sorry. I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its smooth examination of this matter. [[Laughter]] The case deals with several legislative changes related to rules on tax-free reorganisation. These proposals will facilitate the tax implementation of national and international reorganisations and increase the predictability of taxpayers. Under the tax rules in force, if a company moves out of Norway, it shall be taxed on its assets and liabilities as if the assets, etc. was realized. The relocation also means that the shares in the company are considered to be realised at the shareholder's hand. ESA has concluded in a reasoned opinion of 2 March this year that Norwegian tax rules on the relocation of companies are contrary to our EEA obligations. The proposal proposes to abolish the rules on tax for the transfer of companies to other EEA States. The tax base is adequately governed by the rules of the Tax Act § 9-14 on tax relief in the case of withdrawals from the Norwegian tax area. Consequently, the exemption from the tax on the relocation of companies would be equivalent to the exemptions proposed by merger and fission of Norwegian companies with companies based in other EEA States. I will try to explain in plain terms what this proposal is all about. In general, the proposal in the proposal is intended to facilitate the implementation of national and international reorganisations and to increase the predictability of taxpayers. While it is not desirable in principle to facilitate relocation, this must be seen in the context of the proposed amendments to the tax rules on cross-border mergers and fissures in the EEA. A greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination is appropriate for the different types of relocation and withdrawal to other EEA countries. In addition, the EEA considers that tax exemptions can be provided for when moving to the EEA where the tax foundation can be ensured under the tax law we have. Paragraphs 9-14 of the Tax Act were introduced in 2008. In some respects, these rules provide less solutions than full and immediate cessation taxes. For physical means of operation, shares, etc. the tax collection may be deferred up to a time when the objects in the rest of the world are actually realized. If a realization does not actually take place within five years, the entire tax will go away. The background to this is that for such assets, in particular, consideration is given to preventing the withdrawal of assets before a planned sale that takes effect. In other cases, as for intangible assets, it is important more generally to ensure that Norway is allocated a share of unrealised gains. It is a unanimous committee that subscribes to the proposals contained in the proposal. In addition, a minority have made a proposal on the transformation from the NUF to the AS. The majority will refer to the letter sent by the Minister of Finance to the Committee. We agree with him that it is appropriate to await the results of the simplification work on the Share Act with which the Ministry of Justice is now working. These changes may be made in such a way that the Share Act will also lead to the conversion of many companies such as the NUF into AS. The legislative proposal provides for the amendments to apply immediately, i.e.: once they have been sanctioned and will not have retroactive effect. I would therefore recommend that Stortinget give its support to the proposals presented in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1084	In a world where companies are increasingly merging across borders, it is natural that the accounting procedures in the countries affected are as identical as possible, so that businesses use resources and time to create values, not to find any tax gaps. The Progress Party is therefore pleased with the proposals made in the proposed proposal. I cannot avoid making a small comment on the comment that comes from the position when the position points out that this matter is due to the government's view and focus on simplification. Simplification is not very difficult when it comes under instructions from the EFTA Surveillance Authority. It hardly qualifies for glory. That's what they say. There is little doubt that the most appropriate use of international accounting rules in relation to cross-border fission and cross-border mergers is in fact possible. It is important to agree on the tax consequences of mergers. A merger is not a realization of values. The company has not been sold, but merged. This triggers a tax settlement internally, not externally. The Progress Party, together with the other opposition parties in this case, promotes a proposal to introduce a simpler process for the conversion of Norwegian registered foreign companies, so-called NUFs, into limited liability companies. The Progress Party considers that the growth of such NUFs is not compatible with the intention contained in the International Accounting Rules. The focus must be on simplification and efficiency at all times, so that businesses can use their power to create values that are cheapest and best. European adaptation means tax competition, where common multiples will be at the same time the least common multiple. Common European accounting rules should therefore, as a whole, lead to lower European corporate taxation. This in turn results in lower production costs and more reasonable products and services, and ultimately more consumers will be able to meet their needs without asking for public alms, whether they are in Norway or in another European country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1097	I guess it's not that much to add the case rapporteur and the last speaker. There is a great deal of consensus about the changes that are being made here. That is a simplification of the legislation, and that is something we always appreciate. So you might say that it's a shame that the setting doesn't become a kiosk. It can't be – it's pretty technical most of the time it's about. But I would also like to point out that the government has actually spent quite a long time sending this out to the hearing, which happened in January 2010. And like all of the breaking times, some will end up on the wrong side of the line. There are some establishments that have already made changes in 2010 that are not being integrated, as from 2011. The government boasts that changes are being made here, but it is ESA that has finally pushed the matter forward, it seems. At least it is important to bear in mind that when you send things out to the hearing, you create expectations that changes will happen. So there's someone who's already starting to take this into account, and that's not how they benefit from the simplifications that are included in the proposition. I just thought I'd comment on it, since there's been some contact to the committee about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1106	I also expect the representative to take on board the proposal that the Right amongst others is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1109	Then I'll take it up when not the previous speakers did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1114	Then the representative Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4068]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1132	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1141	The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Jørund Rytman. It does not seem that the rapporteur has found it appropriate to enter the main hall. The President may ask the Chairman of the Committee, in view of future debates, to inculcate the discipline in the Committee, if such an expression can be used. Let's move on to the list of speakers. [[Jørund Rytman entered the staging room.]] Then I give the floor to the rapporteur, Jørund Rytman. The number is 5 minutes, so he has the opportunity to regain the breath.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1150	Thank you for that. I am sorry that there was some delay. Either I have seen it wrong, or there have been some changes on the agenda since I saw it. Anyway, sorry so much. This representative proposal from the Left, which concerns amending the amounts limits in the VAT Act § 15-3 for the deadline for tasks in the event of low turnover, has the aim – the aim – to simplify the legislation. Moreover, today it is open to smaller companies with a turnover of less than 1 million. kr may apply for the Tax Act to be released – i.e. the limit is at 1 million. kr. That was also the intention when in 2001 simplification was sought for the very smallest companies in Norway. In general, there is cross-political agreement that the form field in Norway needs to be reduced and that proposals for simplification measures should be welcomed. However, there is disagreement in this matter in the Committee on this very simplification proposal. However, I do not believe that there is any disagreement that if the proposal of the minority in the committee were adopted, it would mean less work for the country's founders and the small companies with few employees. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, emphasise the possible disadvantages it may cause. Reference should be made, inter alia, to: to the government's action plan against financial crime. This action plan shows that the annual delivery of tasks makes it more difficult to detect certain forms of fraud against the VAT system. That is the main reason why we do not want to support such a simplification proposal. The Party for Progress, the Right and the Christian People's Party agree with the intention of the proposal for a representative from the Left, which has changed the wording of the proposal in the committee procedure from the original text of the Left. If you had agreed with the proposal from the Left, small businesses with less than 2 million would be involved. kr on the market would be forced to submit a turnover statement once a year and that it would not have been voluntary. A joint proposal has now become that it should be voluntary, and the minority in the Committee is united on this proposal in the Committee. I would also like to address that proposal. In the case of the Workers' Party, SV and the skepticism of the Centre Party against increasing the limit of 1 million. NOK 2 million. kr, and justifying it with financial fraud, I think it says a little about the focus and the belief – or lack of faith – of entrepreneurs in Norway, that it is believed and suspected that the small businesses in Norway will be criminal immediately. I remind you that we have relatively severe penalties for economic crime, especially with regard to tax evasion, unfortunately often more stringent than with other forms of crime, but there is another debate. However, I believe that such penalties seem more preventive than cutting everyone over a comb and maintaining – or introducing – unnecessary form fields for all entrepreneurs in Norway. In conclusion, I would also like to mention, even if you do not get a majority in favour of this proposal, that the Minister of Finance and the majority parties could perhaps be a little helpful in relation to how the system works today. If you are a small enterprise, perhaps with only one employee, with a turnover of NOK 100000, you actually need to apply the Tax Act to avoid completing the turnover task. You have to search, and there is no automatic in that you are allowed to deliver only once a year. Maybe you should look at that. I hope we can get a positive response to that – if the Council of State takes the floor later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1169	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1172	Just a few brief notes from my side. I think it is important to stress what we in the government parties also have in the form of a comment, that we are positive to proposals that can simplify the regulation for small businesses, and that that is the background to the work being done on the removal of audit obligations, electronic reporting and the assessment of simplifications in the share law. The current decision on the annual deadline for tasks was also a desire for simplification for small enterprises which became taxable as a result of the 2001 VAT reform. Then it is that the good solutions are often found in a balance between two considerations, in this case the need for simplification on the one hand and the need for control and supervision on the other. The Government's Action Plan on Economic Crime, presented in March of this year, shows that the annual delivery of tasks makes it more difficult to detect certain forms of fraud against the VAT system, while also allowing for more scope for fraud. There may be different views on where the right balance between simplification and control is. But everyone agrees that there has to be a balance. There's a degree difference between an amount limit of 1 million. kr and a limit of 2 mill. kr, but there is no fundamental difference. Both boundaries assume that the smallest enterprises can choose the annual deadline but that larger enterprises need to deliver more frequently. Then we can discuss where the limit is going. The proposal refers to non-discrimination between industries, but to primary industries there is much better control. I therefore do not think it necessary to adopt the proposal on the grounds of equal treatment of industries, although I agree that it is generally a good principle. Moreover, raising the limit from 1 July will have budgetary effects, which, in principle – as far as possible – should be dealt with in the usual budgetary process, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1187	The issue today is about a proposal that the Left has promoted, and they are to have the honour of it, but also about the fact that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have once again managed to write us together in a concrete proposal, which has actually been able to fill the simplification objective in Norway, to the Government, to the others, with concrete content. And once again, when we come to the main hall with concrete proposals for treatment, the government refuses to accept the good proposals. As Tegen of the Workers' Party just said, there's no fundamental difference between 1 and 2 million. kr in relation to this. Even if you do inflation, you start getting closer to the totals. That's why I think it's going to be a mistake to refer to the government's action plan against serious financial crime, to use one of the examples used by the ministry to vote down this proposal. So this is about making it a little simpler for a few more companies than today, which the distinguished president, when he was Minister of Finance, was able to introduce. It was a good start, but it is obvious that for some reason the nominal amount has not been restated, nor in other ways. For the Right, it is seen in the context of the job that is now done in relation to the lifting of the audit obligation. We have expectations to make it easier to start limited liability companies and to reduce the requirement for share capital, we have similar expectations to make it easier to reduce the requirement for keeping the accounting documents, we have challenges in relation to export companies in terms of reversal of VAT – and other concrete measures that can make this more reasonable for businesses. This proposal is something that binds us up. We have proposed in the proposal that this should apply from 1 July 2011, so that the reality of this becomes somewhat more difficult to introduce. But we will take that into account in the work of the Right with our revised national budget, and of course we will put it in. Otherwise, I would like to commend the rapporteur, who has been able to write us together. I'll give the honor to the Left who, when the other parties pointed out some defects in their proposal, actually took it over. It might be an example for the red-green government to follow – it's actually possible to change something along the way in a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1200	It is important to ensure business simplification so that we do not have a system that makes it difficult to operate in Norway. That is why we have not least been very concerned with developing websites and electronic communications with the business community from public agencies, which has been well received by industry. Nevertheless, as the finance committee, we must always ask ourselves whether simplification measures will also do so in order to facilitate economic crime. This proposal is unfortunately suitable – possibly – to do so. After all, it is the Finance Ministry’s assessment that it must be taken into account at least. And in the context of the fact that we have now received an action plan against economic crime, which the representative Tegen had in mind, the government should, in the light of what we now know about fraud in value added tax, go in and assess whether or not it should be tightened up on the possibility of using semesters. The reason why I took the floor was that Jørund Rytman, from the Advancement Party – who also got a bit of a response from the representative Arve Kambe, from the Right – shouted in advance that if you are against this kind of simplification measures for business, it shows a lack of confidence in business in general. And I want to warn you about that. We had a round on just this a little bit ago as well. I think it bears witness to a little too easily dealing with these questions, which are very serious, and which have not least become more serious in recent years. We've got more open borders, and it's easier to run organized and economic crime than it was before. That's what I thought a party that the Progress Party was engaged in, which is prolific of being dedicated to fighting crime in general. On the SV side, we're concerned that we're going to build up under the serious business community. At least in the feedback I get from industries that are particularly vulnerable to economic crime, black work and fraud of different kinds, they are concerned that we should ensure that their conditions of competition vis-à-vis the unprofessional part of business are good. That's what I think we should take seriously. In addition, the revenue from VAT to the Community is enormous, approximately. 30 pst. Clearly, if we make it easier to cheat on VAT, it will also mean that we lose significant income to the community. That is a good thing, but we don't think it's right, because this money we want to spend on care for the elderly, school, kindergartens, child protection and other things that are important. In connection with the discussion of the budget and the presentation of our draft budgets for this year, I have recorded that the Progress Party was not particularly concerned at the fact that we should have the opportunity to control business and the opportunity to reveal, among other things. economic crime. Here, not least, the Tax Act is a very important tool on behalf of the community. Here you chose to cut 645 million. kr. So if you see the tax haven, the tax haven and the Financial Supervisory Authority as a whole, which are three very important tools for detecting financial crime, you chose to cut $730 million. kr. When you choose to use such strong words as saying that you've mistrusted the business if you're for control, I think it's about maybe you haven't done home homework, and you're trying to get the focus on someone other than yourself. I would recommend the Progress Party to take a new round on this to see if one should not reconsider how to deal with the particular VAT system, which is very important for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1215	In 2001 we got a general rule in the VAT Act that said that one would get annual deadlines when turnover and withdrawals did not exceed 1 million. kr. Today's proposal from the Left is to raise this limit to 2 million. kr. It is commonplace in a tradition where the most important part of Norwegian business is serious business. Such simplification, in its basic attitude, has the support of the Centre Party. And it not only has the support of the Centre Party, but it also has the support of the Minister of Finance, as shown in the letter from the Minister of Finance of 21 March 2011. What is the challenge, however, is that one has to see this proposal in relation to the world of reality in which we live, where, unfortunately, there are a number of companies that stand for a different tradition and show a behaviour where one is not so careful to pay their VAT. When it goes over an entire year, it can become outstanding for the benefit of the State a significant amount. Therefore, the Minister of Finance points out the need to look at this. From the centre's point of view, it is important, because what is very central to all traders, is that a person sees competition as fair, that competition between different types of enterprises is based on what is the Norwegian tradition, namely that taxes and taxes pay you, here it should be settled. If it isn't, well, then the morals associated with taxes and charges will quickly lapse. I expect the Minister of Finance to address this problem in a good way. One alternative may be that those who show a behaviour that is less reliable are given a two-month deadline order rather quickly, thus reducing the disadvantages that exist. It's pretty obvious that 2 million. kr on the market today concerns a rather modest company, and we need to be careful about spending too much time on the small issues, in order to be able to concentrate on the larger issues. Then there has been a question of whether the VAT Act § 15-3 should contain the word ‘shall’ or ‘can’, meaning ‘shall be delivered once a year’ or ‘can be delivered once a year’. As the law is already practised today, there are opportunities to nuance the concept of ‘shell’. That is what I would like to state in support of, because there may be a number of factors that suggest that it may be difficult to carry VAT if you receive VAT again only once a year. I think it's a good idea that it says "can". I expect that the fraud problem will be thoroughly discussed by the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance and the Central Party want you here to have a simplification. One must then only take the time necessary to ensure that it implies fair competition for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1228	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review and also thank you for the last speech, from which I felt the support. The left has a strong commitment to simplifying and reducing reporting obligations and forms for Norwegian business. Therefore, only in the last year have we proposed to quantify an overall objective of reducing business form fields by 25 pst. That is why we have proposed to set up a separate regulatory board after success in Sweden. That's why we have proposed to make it easier and cheaper to start new businesses. And that is why we have proposed raising the turnover limits in order to get the right to an annual deadline in terms of VAT. The issue we are dealing with now is not the biggest and most important thing in the world, but a step in the right direction in terms of business simplification in general and for the smallest companies in particular. There are two elements we want in place. The first is a reasonable increase in the current turnover limit, from 1 million. NOK 2 million. kr. The current limit has remained still since the scheme was introduced 10 years ago. The second is that there should be an approximation of the automatic nature of the right to an annual turnover task for all persons whose turnover is below the established limit. As far as the latter is concerned, during the comitology process, reasonable objections have been raised to the original proposal of the Left that everyone should have an annual turnover, on the basis of the agricultural model. We have therefore amended the original proposal, so that everyone who wants to have the right to an annual turnover task, but that those who want it, for example. for liquidity reasons, may continue to deliver trading tasks every two months. As is common in such cases, the majority in the vote of the letter of the Council of State - sentence - refers to no argument other than that. This is, to say it carefully, not the first time. In the vote, the majority, on behalf of the Council of State, emphasises two counter-representatives against the proposal. The first is that this allegedly should lead to more financial crime. We've also heard more people come here. If this was a real counter-representation, the entire annual deadline should be terminated. At least we should not introduce exemption from auditing obligations for the smallest enterprises. This is at best a very substitutive argument, as the Left sees it, not least given that the companies with a turnover of between 1 million. NOK 2 million. kr, and which will be covered by the proposal that the Left has promoted here today, are usually companies that have existed for a while but which have slowly, but certainly developed a slightly larger turnover. The fact that these would suddenly pose a threat that undermines the government’s work against financial crime because they are given the right to deliver one trading task this year instead of six is a strange argument for me. The second counter-argument is that the proposal will have budgetary impact and should therefore be dealt with in ordinary budgetary procedures in principle. The budgetary implications of the proposal are minimal and, in any case, there is only a delay of a maximum of a few months before the VAT settlement takes place. In addition, the Storting is constantly taking away decisions that will have budgetary implications, other than the ordinary budgetary procedures. So far this year, this is a total of 1.3 billion. kr. In this context, this proposal is completely insignificant. The study ‘Paying Taxes 2010’ was submitted just before Christmas. In this survey, it was shown, positive enough, that the administrative costs for business related to the Norwegian tax system are relatively small, with one exception: the VAT system. Among other things, the study showed that the payment frequency and schema length were critical factors in the administrative burden associated with the management and follow-up of the legislation. Our proposal, which we are now considering, will be a step towards reducing administrative costs in this area as well. Unfortunately, once again, I note that it is far from rhetoric to real political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1249	A few words about the matter we are now dealing with. First, it is generally the way to work to make it easier to deal with forms and rules, etc. for business, is an important task for this government. We therefore put forward proposals on the audit obligation. That's why we've started a lot of work on EDAG, which is the electronic reporting between businesses and agencies. That's why in other areas we've also started a lot of work to look at simplification opportunities. So one should not doubt that the work is going to continue. Then, as several speakers have pointed out today, one must weigh up a little different consideration for such things – on the one hand, taking into account simplification and, on the other hand, taking into account control. It is a classic case that anyone – I would say – has to assess both the Minister of Finance and the Government in such a context. This is also reflected here in the fight against economic crime. So it is also possible to argue in the discussion that a limit that has remained untouched since 2001, in a way, has some sort of inflation effect. But the main argument, the balance between border and control, does not change the nature of that reason, because it will always be there as a problem. It is true, as has also been pointed out by several speakers here, that the original proposal tabled by the Left has changed somewhat in the context of the vote. One has e.g. changed in the case of an enterprise with a higher input charge than the final charge for a period. Here, it could be a disadvantage not to have the opportunity to deliver the task more often. It was also shown that the tax office today has the power to reject an application for an annual forwarding and withdraw previous notification/consent, either when the obligation to pay is not respected or when another infringement of the law is committed. It was also noted that there was a need for close follow-up to this group and that two months of charging tasks would provide a better opportunity to do so. This has not taken into account the minority of the Committee in the amended proposal. So I find reason to hold on to the fact that the need for control of each business is important, and in cases, a mandatory system must also be combined with access for the tax office to impose two-month tasks. Then it has budgetary impact, it doesn't get out of hand. And then there's a reference to what one calls the'special treatment of primary industries'. The point here is that for primary industries, there is a stronger control than for other industries, among others. because the turnover in the primary industries is automatically reported to the authorities through the trading stages of both agriculture and fisheries. But when that is said, I can give it the promise to the proposer that we should, of course, include this proposal in the assessment that we are going to make in the future of possible new simplification measures for business and for those who are concerned with the form field. Finally, with regard to the VAT system in general and the reference from the proposer to the study which came last autumn, I think that one of the main reasons why the VAT system came out worse than the direct tax system is that the VAT system is complicated by the fact that there are more VAT rates. You have 0 pst. And then 25 pst. And then you have intermediates. There are exceptions to the VAT system, and that makes the VAT system more complicated than it should be, so a great simplification would, for example, be. have been subject to two rates of VAT. But I'm assuming that your path is long, from 0 pst. and something else. But it's probably a longer discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1272	I will come back to what I took up in my speech, and which the Minister of Finance partly addressed in conclusion. It is true that today there is no automation in that you get an exemption from delivering every two months. Let's take a situation where there's a founder who might have a turnover of NOK 100 000 a year, who has a full-time job alongside – but he has, of course, a business venture with which he works, perhaps day and night – and who then applies for an exemption. I know of a case in which he was denied the Tax Act for the following reason: No, it was small sales in the previous year, perhaps between 50 and 60 000 kroner, but you were one or two days too late to submit the application one time, and therefore you have broken the law, so you have to continue with that scheme one whole year before we can review it again. At least I believe that you have misunderstood a bit. This is just a simplification measure for the good entrepreneur who wants to do something, but who, of course, in a stressful everyday life has forgotten it, probably. But it might have been just the target group that it should have been focused on. Will the Minister of Finance assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1281	I think the finance minister should be careful about going into the more daily business of the Tax Directorate. But I also believe that the Tax Agency is a service organisation. It has been given a good shot at various occasions, so I think it is possible to appeal to the good judgment of the Tax Agency in the type of case mentioned here. The tax office also has the opportunity to deviate from this, so I think it should be in good hands. I would therefore like to guard myself to give quite specific instructions to the tax administration in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1286	I think it's a little stupid when you have such business simplification debates, that many – especially SVs Thorkildsen – often end up discussing financial crime. We in the Right are quite clear that economic crime is going down on business, it is going down on taxpayers, it is going down on the population, and we want to hit it hard. When, in this case, we want to expand today's system, which works quite positively, in our opinion, we become somewhat concerned when we read the Minister of Finance's letter to the Finance Committee under item 3. There he writes: ‘The action plan therefore proposes that an assessment be made as to whether the conditions for access to the annual future should be strengthened.’;» It's really a contradiction to what the Minister of Finance says he could think of doing. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is: does the government, which usually follows such action programmes, plan to tighten up existing arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1298	I can answer the question, in the sense that I have no plans about it. But the scheme will be assessed, as I said in my main post, in relation to the job we are now going to do in terms of business simplification in general. Then it is important to stress what I said when we presented the auditing law, that it is a huge declaration of trust to the business community, because the large, large majority of Norwegian businesses consist of hardworking, honest and good entrepreneurs, business leaders and business people – so that's what has been said. At the same time, however, there is an important point, as the representative Lundtigen points out, that it should be seen in a way that there is a ‘fair competition’ – that is, that one must appeal to those who do not always have pure flour in the bag, so that they understand that they can also destroy the conditions of those who have always clean flour in the bag. But initially, I have an open mind toward business, and the open mind includes confidence in the business we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1305	As Mr Kambe said, there has been a great debate today on economic crime. That was so much the case ten years ago when the Workers' Party and the SV voted against. I therefore assume that the ministry is on considerable empirical lines with regard to the problem, since it repeats and repeats that this opens up widespread economic crime. My question to the Council of State is this: how many cases of economic crime have been revealed or investigated in the last ten years as a direct result of the change in law that was made ten years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1312	I think I have to ask for understanding that it's not possible to have that kind of statistics in my head. But as far as the main question is concerned, it is the fact that a person must always have a balance between control considerations and simplification considerations. As I said in my reply to the representative Kambe, I assume that the Norwegian industry behaves properly, legally and properly. There is also an important guide in assessing simplifications, although in some cases an isolated approach could also have intended to have stricter arrangements for control purposes. But then there is also a need to balance resources in the establishments concerned and the gain you can expect from such controls. I therefore go to this work with a fairly open mind, but I always want to have that balance between control and simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1317	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1322	It was the representative from SV, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who made me take the floor. After listening to her, she seems to warn me that you are really against the present system, and will reverse and wind up today's system that entrepreneurs can submit an application to refuse to deliver a trading task every two months. The reason is, of course, that the companies can do business with financial crime, etc. As I took up my post, I am a little over that justification and feel that you are cutting everyone over a comb. I just want to remind you that we have very severe penalties in Norway for economic crime, especially in terms of taxes and taxes – in fact, more severe penalties for it than for rape. My point is that because it's possible to break the law, that doesn't mean you do it. If there's a small business with $200,000 on the market – or maybe $100,000 – I don't think it would be considered to run with snuff, actually get convicted for it and in the worst case risk up to three or six years in prison. I would also like to remind you that we have a relatively strict accounting law, which says that we must keep annexes, annual accounts, main books, documents, etc. for 10 years. Violation of this results in up to six years in prison. I would like to believe that such penalties are preventive – perhaps not for everyone. It's like some people think you might feel better in prison than older people do in hospitals, but I'm not going to take that debate. I would rather suggest that SV suggest increasing penalties, if they are so afraid that it will be possible to deal with financial crime – with simplification measures. So doing something like this when you have a turnover of $100,000, and then you're at risk of getting more years in prison -- I don't think that's exactly what's real.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1335	Let me start by stressing that SV is for simplification measures towards business. But as I said before, we need to weigh simplification measures towards business – which can initially be a good idea – against the risk of getting better competitive conditions for the unprofessional part of business, including those who just want to commit economic crime at the expense of the serious part of business and the community's ability to get income through the tax or VAT system, which we are discussing today. It is not that the government has taken a decision on what we should do on this question that the Left has now put on the search light. We have not decided whether we want to reverse the possibility of submitting on an annual basis. However, Action 33 of the Government’s Action Plan on Economic Crime states that ‘there should be an assessment of whether the conditions for access to the use of annual dates should be strengthened’. The background for this is that we now have experience that there is a lot of fraud related to the VAT system. Obviously, you can always dream away in a world where you think that only there are strict enough punishments, people won't commit crime. But sea ashore where you have the death penalty – for that matter – people commit crime. It's the risk of being discovered that's the most important thing to prevent crime, especially of this kind that we're talking about here. I mean, as I said before: if you choose to remove orders that will help us control business more easily, and at the same time cut dramatically in the apparatus that the state has in order to detect crime – which is the Tax Agency, the Tolletaten and the Financial Supervisory Authority – yes, you choose to say that we think it is more important to give better competitive conditions to the unprofessional part of business than to take into account the serious part. Or, at least you choose to close your eyes because here we are facing an area of society where we have a significant problem, which we in the Financial Committee have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1348	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4071]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1364	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1373	The document contains two proposals from the Progress Party: to ‘reduce fuel charges by SEK 2’ and ‘establish a flexible fuel charging system’. It is a broad majority in the Committee that recommends that the proposal be rejected. In my words I will justify it as follows: Firstly, I think we can have a formal approach that is about the level of fees to be addressed once a year, in the state budget. Then we have the opportunity to see the tax system as a whole, to see budgetary revenue in relation to expenditure and to ensure predictability for the budget year we are going into. Of course, we can make changes during the year if there are special reasons for doing so, but as a general rule, I think it is a good thing to debate these proposals in the context of the budgetary procedure. Secondly, if we are to go into the substance of the proposals, there is also political disagreement about what is proposed. I understand that people react when fuel prices increase. But it is important to hold on to the fact that it is not the fees that have increased, but the oil price, because of the wave of uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa. That's how a rebellion like, for example, is going to happen. is about increasing food prices, affecting fuel prices here north. Everything is related to everything. How high are fuel prices in Norway? It depends on what we see in relation to them. Compared to other countries, petrol is expensive in Norway, measured in crowns and ears. But compared to what we earn, Norwegian drivers get more than twice as much petrol per hour of work as in Italy or Spain, and about 40–50 pst. more petrol per hour than in Germany, Sweden, Finland, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Denmark is above Norway, but only so far. In today's Evening Post we can read about the OECD proposing more expensive fuel. The charges are no higher than the cost of driving on the community, such as CO2 emissions, local emissions, queues, road wear, etc. It's the total cost of purchase and use that determines how much you can afford to drive. New car sales in Norway are increasing. The March figures are the highest in 25 years. It is good that the car fleet is renewed, both for safety reasons and for the purpose of reducing climate emissions. Nevertheless, it is clear to us that too many fuel prices form a large part of the private budget. But reducing charges is a little precise tool to reach those who need it. I believe in securing the economy of ordinary peoples primarily through a fair distribution policy, not by reducing the fees, which can quickly get off at the other end – either by cutting well-being, or by a policy that makes interest rates increase more than it would otherwise have done. Both parts go down on those who are in need of money, and they will soon be able to notice more than 2 kroner in a reduced fuel charge. Fuel is a scarce resource where changes in supply and demand affect price. A system that provides higher taxes when oil prices fall and lower taxes when oil prices rise have an impact on financial policy as a whole. It is not necessarily wise to reduce revenue when the oil price rises and to increase revenue when the oil price falls. A flexible charging system may also contradict the principle that charges reflect the costs of driving on society. The progress party shows in its comments that Cameron is considering a flexible system in the United Kingdom, but Cameron also said to the BBC that he won't stretch people's hopes too far because it's a difficult thing. And then we'll see what happens next.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1395	Norway has one of the world's highest excise duties on fuel. Of a petrol price to the consumer of 14 kroner per litre of low-sulphurised petrol, 8.30 is excise duty and VAT. The fuel alone costs $5.70 per litre. The equivalent of a car diesel price of 14 kr per litre consists of 7 kr of excise duty and VAT. Autodiesel alone costs 7 kroner per litre. As an indication, the price of petrol in Fauske was 14,68 kroner yesterday, i.e. the price has risen a lot since the proposal was made, and therefore the need to get it adopted is even greater. Most European countries have a much higher population density than Norway, suggesting that the need for a car should be lower than in Norway. In addition, dense population concentration in Europe leads to significantly better provision of public transport than in Norway. In Norway, distances are high, and the population is scattered over large areas, making public transport less suitable. In most parts of the country, the population is totally dependent on the passenger car to get to and from work, and to be able to participate in social life. It's not uncommon for people to drive 100 km every day to get to and from work, and for most commuters there is no collective offer. Nor is it unusual for parents to drive 40 to 50 km several times a week to allow children to participate in sports, music or other leisure activities. It is mainly these groups that suffer from the majority charging policy. The peculiar level of petrol and diesel taxes increases the distance costs, and especially for those living in scattered areas. This leads people to move into larger centers, not because they want to, but because the costs are generally too high. It is therefore natural for the proposers to find that the petrol tax in Norway is lower than in the other densely populated countries of Europe. The proposers therefore want Stortinget to adopt a principle on the level of the petrol and diesel tax. During the year, the prices of petrol and diesel vary with the market price of oil, which means that the price of petrol and diesel is very unstable. Since the end of the year, the pump price on petrol has increased by approx. One dollar per litre, and it looks like it's increasing. The reason for this increase is that the international oil price has increased sharply as a result of unrest in North Africa and the Middle East. This leads the Norwegian state to charge several billion more kroner. Business and jobs are also affected by high fuel prices. Most companies producing goods and services depend on using cars, either to transport people to and from the workplace, or to transport goods to the market. In a country such as Norway with a long distance from markets, production enterprises are particularly hit by high fuel prices. This weakens the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular those dependent on long-distance transport in order to reach the market, and also strengthens enterprises close to the European market. This is a anti-diversity policy that can lead companies to move from districts to markets in Europe. The paradox is that the drivers not only have to pay extra for the sky-high oil price, but they also have to pay more taxes to the country. In other words, the State serves both higher oil prices and higher taxes as a result of higher VAT. When the state takes in billions of extra dollars because of higher oil prices, it is unreasonable for Norwegian drivers to become the losing party, with petrol prices close to 15 kroner per litre. Against this background, the proposers want a flexible petrol tax system, which reduces the level of oil prices when the oil price rises and vice versa – a similar system that is assessed in the United Kingdom. In this way, a relatively stable selling price of petrol will be achieved, irrespective of market fluctuations on oil, but with full competition between the operators. Independently of a new charging system, the proposers consider that, on the basis of the reasons given in this proposal for a representative, it is necessary to reduce the taxes on petrol and automotive diesel by 2 kr per litre. I am addressing the proposal to which I refer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1423	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1426	In Norway, we have policy specific fuel charges, and then we have market fuel prices. VAT and charges live independently of them. It's a principle Right wants to continue with both inside and outside government. What has been the starting point of the Progress Party's proposal seems to be a protest against high petrol prices because something is happening abroad, which in turn brings revenue to the state of Norway. The right, which initially has a liberal view of the political economy and market economy, is sceptical about entering and reviewing the market that gives some signals. Because when prices rise in a market, they give us all the signals that something is happening. This means, among other things: that removing the effect of price increases will also reduce the demand for more environmentally friendly cars, for environmental cars. The number of people who want to take the bus or the T-Bahn, where there is an alternative, or people who want to ride, which is an even better option for a lot of people, will sink. So that's how it costs to drive a car. In the right, we have been involved in the climate agreement with the other parties, except the Progress Party, on the Stortinget, and it obliges us all to actually look at the fuel charges and whether they will be increased in the future. Then we have also said, as I also perceive that the Energy Policy Spokesman in the Advance Party, Solvik-Olsen, says, last at the meeting with the Auto Importers' National Association a week and a half ago, that we want to distort the car charges from a one-off charge for use. When the Advance Party comes to Stortinget and says that you start the policy of reducing fuel taxes, I don't think that's the way to do it. There is clearly internal disagreement in the Progress Party. The right has also helped to promote a proposal together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to look at a distortion of the fees from purchase to use within the Minister of Finance who is very happy to hear – a provincial neutral framework. It has something to do with it, because it's clear that it sounds good to reduce prices by 2 kroner per litre; that's a good cut. I think Svendsen argues well that businesses in the districts have other costs. I remind you that the proceeds of the Ministry of Finance are $7.8 billion. kr per year. That's almost 80 billion. kr in ten years that we're going to spend, while for that sum we could instead halve the property tax. That's actually almost the first step we could take the property tax on. At least then we could have rid ourselves of property taxes on active capital. I think that's a more sensible use of resources, even for businesses in the business world, than reducing the state's fuel tax revenues. The right is on the climate deal for several reasons, both in terms of environmental policy and in terms of economics. But if the Storting is to take the market signals away from the citizens – from the customers, the consumers – it gets a misguided demand. There are therefore several reasons why the Right is with the other batches in all the notes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1443	It is a paradox that a liberalist party, such as the Advance Party, is in favour of a free market, but immediately yells and screams at the functioning of the market; then the state must come and save them. I join very much of what the representative Arve Kambe said in his post here. Hopefully, there's not going to be any negotiation between the two parties to form a government after 2013, but if that happens, there's at least one point where the parties are going to struggle to reach an agreement. Anyway, fortunately, the representative Kambe states that the Right is behind the climate agreement. It is absolutely essential that we also do something about road traffic emissions if we are to achieve our own objectives in this area, so I give credit to Arve Kambe to do so. That's how road traffic has tripled since 1970. We have doubled road traffic in Norway since 1980, and the number of passenger cars has doubled in the last 30 years. The cars are too high for greenhouse gas emissions, but in addition we have local emissions that cause health problems. The Asthma and Allergy Association have been out talking a lot about how local emissions, not least from diesel cars, create major problems for their members. These are children with asthma and allergy problems that cannot go out in part of the year and get very reduced quality of life, and they are elderly people who die prematurely. In addition, car traffic also creates problems related to the business of cities, because one does not show up because there are too many cars on the roads. And it creates problems for vulnerable road users – cyclists and pedestrians – who are more at risk in traffic and have difficulties in getting there. So it's clear that there are many aspects to car traffic that we have to take into account. So I just want to make sure that I'm happy to drive a car, and yes, I have a certificate. I come from an area in Norway that is not a city either, but can be characterised as a country, so I know what this is about. That you can be happy in your car and like driving a car, I have an absolute understanding of it. But we have to take into account those aspects of driving that are not so positive. And I'm worried about, and SV is worried about, that over 60 pst. of all trips in Norway – now less than two kilometres – are made by car, according to the Swedish Institute of Public Health. This means that the Nordics are increasingly choosing a car even at short distances instead of e.g. to cycle or use collective solutions. It's a problem for people's health. We had a round here on prevention in the city related to financial crime. Again, of course, the Progress Party shows that they do not understand prevention at all, and it seems that we should only spend money, whether it be for the police or for the health services, in order to clean up problems that may arise. But we think it might make sense to prevent too. I'm also a little tired of pushing District Norway in front of me, because we now know, according to research from the Transport Economics Institute and many others, that there are especially people living in urban areas who use the car a lot. Therefore, this is not necessarily so terribly district friendly. In fact, Akershus is the county of Norway where you use the most cars, especially in Oslo. What we have to do is make sure that we have a predictable charging system that builds up under the most environmentally friendly solutions and the most public health-friendly solutions. That means people need to know that it's worth buying fuel-rich cars, i.e. cars that use little fuel and that emit little or no things. There is also an efficiency question about how much of the energy a car spends on getting ahead or backwards, and then not least the electric car comes out very well and much, much better than diesel and petrol cars. That is why I would also like to reject the OECD proposal, which I have read about today, that we should stop favouring zero-emission cars such as electric cars and hydrogen cars, even from an energy efficiency point of view. I think it is frightening how the Progress Party is dealing with this problem, not least with the climate problem, and that one chooses not only to doubt climate research and that it is actually as serious as the overwhelming number of researchers point to, but actively chooses to go out in a highly populist and irresponsible way, such as. Sylvi Listhaug chose to do during the national meeting to the Progress Party, and to promote the very most petrol consuming cars – some of those that pollute the most for the climate, but also for people who live in cities, and who also have the right to move outside the door to normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1463	A flexible charging system where charges vary with oil prices – oil prices rise, fees go down and vice versa – usually involves a number of administrative complications and, as many people have been involved, it is a little unusual for the Progress Party to be a member of it. For this reason, the Central Party, together with the majority, which consists of all but the Advance Party, states that there is no basis for derogating from the market principle in relation to fuel prices. However, there is one reflection that I would like to say about it – the representative of Kenneth Svendsen is strong at that point – and that concerns the price level out in the districts. We see that in many cases the price differences between central and districts are much greater than the distance costs of transporting the fuel. The reason for this is that competition does not work in many districts, because there is only one fuel provider. This is a point that the authorities should look at, because the people living in the districts are in a completely different situation. They cannot cycle or take their legs to their workplaces. Therefore, this is a repetition, and this aspect of a differentiation of prices due to a lack of competition in the districts is seaworthy, something for which the Senterpartie is vigilant. It must be clear! However, as I said, there is no basis for doing it this way. I hope that people will remember what has been said by the majority, that the government in the 2011 government budget will come back to a comprehensive review of the fees. Then we talked about taxes related to both purchase and use and about annual taxes. And as I've said several times before from this pulpit, the centre party is dependent on predictable and changed framework conditions. We need both predictability and change in order to achieve what everyone, except the Progress Party, agrees in this Chamber, namely that we should have more environmentally and climate-friendly transport. This means that energy-efficient cars are given priority and that cars or heavier vehicles going on renewable fuels are given priority. If a lifter raises such overall conditions in the review that we are now facing, I am reasonably sure that it will have wide popular acceptance, and it will certainly also bring up among people. Such predictability will also create capacity in the economy, because a number of private traders see what is coming, and can therefore adapt to it and create the necessary market for the new future. Finally, no Marte Thorkildsen is happy in public health. It is also the representative of Lundteg. There's something we really have to work for, and what we have to do here is that some people don't need to use a car, while others have to use a car, and that means we have to be careful to distinguish between those who can get to their jobs in a simple way, and those who don't; I'm a hot follower of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1476	I listened with interest to the post of the representative Lundtegen, and the only thing that was missing at the end was to hit a blow for the moped. But we can come back to that on a later occasion. A little flash in the eye must be able to allow itself in a debate like this. I'm not going to say very much, because it's said very reasonable so far in the discussion. I also think it is gratifying that there is such a broad dissension about having the system that we have today, that market forces must be allowed to work in terms of fuel prices, and then there might be a discussion when we come to the budget, about how much the fees should be in the ear of fuel. But I'm very pleased with the strong upsurge it's about having a system that reflects market prices. And as it is now shown, among other things. by the representative, Mr Kambe, the proposal which is now on the table, if adopted, will mean close to 8 billion. kr on an annual basis in lost proceeds for the State. As fuel prices now rise in Norway, at least in this case, there is no strange phenomenon. It is also happening across the whole continent, in Europe and elsewhere, and it is due to an increase in the oil price above all. I think it is important to stress that a prerequisite for a functioning market economy is that prices change when changes in supply and demand occur. A system of policy-specific prices will largely eliminate the signaling effect of the changing market conditions for operators and consumers, as pointed out earlier in the debate. So I won't say much more, but if one is also going to have flexible fuel charges that are going to provide stable fuel prices, it will have to cause frequent tax changes. In any case, in contrast to the debate we had on simplification, it will lead to more complicated and more red tape around setting fuel prices. I am pleased that a large, broad majority in the Grand Duchy, all except the Advance Party, rejects a system of setting fuel prices to correct for the changes that occur as a result of changes in market price. That's a good decision The biggest thing is going to do later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1494	It was interesting to hear Thorkildsen say that in the cities you drive a car, and in the village you drive a bus. That was new to me. I have not registered that there is something special going on with buses there. What the Council of State says is that it's not a strange system that fuel prices are rising. That's right. It's because of what's happened in the Middle East and in Africa. What is strange is that Norway is a scattered rural area, with long distances and long distances to the market. This in turn means that business in Norway is hit in a much harder way than, for example, industry in Germany, which is in the middle of the market. This means that products produced in Norway come out unfavorably, which can lead to bankruptcy, etc. As I understand it, there has been a meeting between the Truck Car Association and the Ministry of Finance on fuel prices. Can the Council say anything if you want to meet the truck industry in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1502	With regard to the concrete level of fuel charges, etc. and any measures which have budgetary implications, the Ministry will come to it in budgetary terms, so that it would not be particularly sensible to indicate whether a person has thought of it or has not thought of it in the context of the budget. I will give the representative Svendsen the right to say that distance costs and to the extent that transport costs are an important part of the cost level of Norwegian production, but at the same time there are also other elements relating to costs in Norwegian production that must have at least the same importance and importance. I also think what was referred to here, looking at the cost of petrol per hour, is an interesting comparison, which emphasizes that costs are more than just fuel prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1509	Some reason why the Right vote against the proposal today is, as I said in my post, that we want to turn the use over to more environmentally friendly cars, like electric cars. In the context of the last week’s presentation by the Council of State of the revised national budget, there was a request from the Right which the Council of State, in the case of Opel Ampera cars, was reasonably quickly signed, which is classified as hybrid cars. The challenge with the large, future hybrid cars is that they have a rather high weight. This causes them to have a solid impact on the weight component, which is now partially compensated by a 10 pst. rejection. The environmentally friendly cars of the future will weigh more because the batteries are so heavy, so that a one-off charge is higher than necessary and can therefore be priced out of the market. Today we have an electric car, a hybrid car and a passenger car inside the system. Would the Council of State be interested in increasing the deduction of the weight component of such cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1518	The example now presented by the representative, Mr Kambe, shows that both the Minister of Finance and the Department, when reasonable, also promote sensible proposals on the fee side. The small, simple proposal that came into the revised national budget is an example of that. Then I just want to refer to the review we're going to have of the fee system for both fuel and cars, and I have to get back to it when it comes. It may be that the batteries get heavier, but at the same time we can take another modern thing, the mobile phone, which shows that battery technology has evolved enormously. It may well be that in the future one can see that electric cars can actually get a weight that reflects that battery technology makes a few batteries that last longer and are much easier. But such things we get to come back to when we're going to go through the charging system on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1525	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1530	Several speakers have compared the level of income in Norway to the level of income in other countries and calculated the price of petrol after that. I'm sure that's right. My goal in sitting on Stortinget is to give the citizens of Norway the best possible offer, including on petrol. But you can't pick out gasoline as one thing. In fact, Norway has one of the world’s highest car charges, among other things. do not have in Germany, not Sweden. In most European countries, they do not have a one-off charge on cars. In Norway we have a special year fee. In Norway, we probably have the world's highest registration fee. It costs NOK 20 000 to re-register a relatively new car, while it costs NOK 370 in Sweden to do the same. We have the world's most comprehensive bomb charges, which the drivers have to pay. Overall, car users in Norway are hit much harder — even in terms of income — than comparable countries in the world. It's also said here that this will cost closer to 8 billion. kr in lost income of the country. But what's a little special about Norway is – and it's true that we get it – that when the oil price rises, we're going to get an increased income. It looks like we're getting tens of billions of dollars in increased revenue from oil production in Norway this year. That means we're fully funding this plus we can put a lot of this money into accounts around the world. We're in a special position in this country to do that. Lundtegen stated that gas prices are high around the country, and he thought there was no competition. I think Lundtigen is quite right about that. I find it regrettable that the Competition Authority is not much more on the track to look at the fact that gas stations that are directly opposite each other have about identical prices, not to say completely identical. To me it seems abnormal that it should be like this, and there can be no reasonable form of competition. I hope that the Competition Authority, with pressure from Lundtägen and others, will be out to make assessments and ensure that competition also works in this field throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1541	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4071]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1557	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1566	In this case, it is a minority proposal and a majority proposal. The Progress Party is associated with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left on a proposal to exempt ship tunnels from VAT at the last stage of trade and thus to be treated in the same way as other forms of infrastructure construction, such as roads, bridges and tunnels. The Committee's position is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. They want to continue today's legislation, where tunnels are kept outside the exemption legislation, and I assume that they will justify this for themselves. According to the VAT Act of 19 June 1969 No. Paragraph 16, first paragraph, No. 13 shall not be charged for placing on the market the following: ‘Last stage services relating to the planning, design, installation, repair and maintenance of public roads and railway installations exclusively for rail, public passenger transport, and to the manufacture at the workshop of bridges or parts of bridges for such road or rail.’ It is stated in Regulation No. 63 on the exemption from charges for certain services relating to railway installations exclusively for rail, public passenger transport § 2 that are regarded, inter alia, as railway installations or as part of railway installations. bridges, tunnels and turning points. By Regulation No. 55 on the exemption of certain public roads services.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The road or part of the road is covered by bridges, tunnels, flooding, etc. for the carriage of the road, ferries or other quays built solely for the purpose of carrying on the road by road passengers and forming part of the road network.’;» Tunnels are not subject to the VAT Act § 16, first paragraph, No. 13th@item: inlistbox It is a natural consequence that no ship tunnels have been constructed in Norway at present, but it is not natural for tunnels to be excluded when other tunnel types are in the exemption and the construction of ship tunnels has become relevant. The location of the ship's tunnel is an important project that has been under investigation for a long time, including: is included in the national transport plan. It is important to have clarity in the VAT legislation in good time before decisions on the construction of the ship's tunnel are taken to prevent further delays in the project. VAT exemptions for ship tunnels in line with other infrastructure projects may be essential for the construction of this and, where appropriate, other ship tunnels. The tax exemption in the VAT Act § 16, first paragraph, No. 13 mainly aims at countering distortions of competition and creating fiscal neutrality between public and private road operations in road work. The need to counter distortions of competition is as strong in terms of ship tunnels as it is for other infrastructure. I am referring here to the proposal I have referred to, which will also provide a tax exemption for the construction of ship tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1596	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1599	Today, we are considering a proposal for ship tunnels to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner with other infrastructure in the VAT legislation. This is one of three proposals on changes and exemptions in the VAT legislation that we are discussing here in the Chamber today. This question of exemption from VAT for the construction of ship tunnels has been taken up and rejected by Stortinget before – therefore I will be brief. The fact that the former production part of the State Road Service is separated into a owned company, Mesta AS, which competes for assignments with other private operators, is more and more so that the original basis for the exemption is rather weak. It might also be speaking to assess the termination of the exemption, and at least not for an extension of the exemption, as I see it. I understand that many people want to get started building the ship's tunnel. I was watching the project last summer, and it's an exciting project. Nevertheless, we believe that we cannot use the VAT system in general to provide state support. It is much more targeted to provide support for such purposes through licenses than indirectly through the establishment of specific VAT exemptions. In any case, by any decision to build the City Tunnel, one will have to carry out a concrete assessment of the demand. The project is now being reviewed in an external quality assurance, KS1. In the national transport plan, it is clear that a premise for any start-up is that quality assurance shows that the project has social benefits and that the government agrees to proceed with the project – that is, it is the authority, and not changes in the VAT system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1612	First of all, I have to say that it is interesting that the representative of the Workers' Party indicates that it is perhaps appropriate to reintroduce VAT for other infrastructure. That's an interesting piece of information from the pulpit. It is correct that the right has raised this matter earlier. We believe it is right to equate the construction of ship tunnels with the construction of other infrastructure such as roads, bridges and other tunnels. We think it should be a simple matter to change this when you see the similarity between these types of infrastructure. When the Right makes a proposal on this, it is because today's legislation is both unfair and out of date. Thus, VAT law does not require a charge to be paid for the placing on the market of services at the last stage of turnover relating to the planning, design, construction, repair and maintenance of public roads and railway installations. Ship tunnels are not covered by this derogation for the time being, and that is of course because we have not yet built ship tunnels in Norway. But City Ship Tunnel is an important project, in which numerous investigations have been carried out, and which has now been included in the national transport plan. It is important to have clarity in the VAT legislation before deciding on a decision on the construction of the tunnel in order to prevent delays in progress of the project. VAT exemptions for ship tunnels in line with other infrastructure projects may be essential for the construction of this and, where appropriate, other ship tunnels. Therefore, the Right considers it important to amend the legislation. The tax exemption contained in the VAT Act is primarily aimed at combating distortions of competition and creating fiscal neutrality between public and private road operations, including: in the case of work on the road. Of course, the need to counter distortions of competition is as strong for marine tunnels as for other infrastructure. So the right-hand side is dealing with this matter because today's legislation is undoubtedly unfair, but also because it will be of great importance for funding. When the Right raised this question at a large conference on the City Ship Tunnel in Ålesund on 4 February this year, there was a great deal of support for this way of thinking. There were also many from the government parties who expressed support for the Right proposal. Knowing that it is a major challenge to realise this major transport project in the North West, it is incomprehensible that not everyone who is a follower of the tunnel supports this proposal. Let me add that it is actually a little strange to see the argument that the government parties have led in this matter. The ship's tunnel is one of the most frontier-breaking transport projects we have in this country. Firstly, it is the only tunnel in the world, and secondly, it is a transport project that has a major regional and national impact both at sea and at sea. The tunnel will facilitate safe maritime transport beyond one of the world's most dangerous sea areas. It will provide simpler and safer transport for fishing vessels, passenger traffic and other maritime traffic, and it will have far-reaching consequences for business and people most north and south of the hazardous State Sea, not only locally but, of course, far beyond it. If more goods are transferred from road to sea, this will also lead to a reduction in environmental impact and to a reduction in the number of road accidents involving vehicle combinations. Therefore, the Right considers that it is of considerable social benefit to realise this important project. We believe that planning now needs to be carried out, and we show in this context to our alternative state budget, where it is set at 200 million. kr for the preparation of priority OPS project. In the right we had actually expected the government parties to support this proposal, and it is a little sad to see that local representatives do not follow up on the matter. It is also sad to see that you are attacking the Right to cover the lack of penetration in your own batch. In this way you are involved in breaking down the support of the City Tunnel. In the Right, we want to explore the construction of the City Tunnel as a OPS project. We've established that in the past. We believe it will be absolutely crucial for the progress of the project that planning is now being accelerated and that VAT exemptions become part of the basis for funding the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1633	The proposal concerns the equal treatment of ship tunnels and other infrastructures in VAT legislation. There is a natural issue of non-discrimination, as there are investment measures for the Community. This does not apply to investment measures that go to private ownership. The background to the proposal is inter alia: City ship tunnel. It's an old central party thing. Few have done more in Stortinget for that matter than the former representative and state councillor Gudmund Restad, who saw until the degrees engaged and tried to realize the tunnel as best they could. The issue of ship tunnels in relation to the VAT law has been dealt with here in the Chamber at the latest in Innst. S. No 48 for 2008-2009 by the Financial Committee. The majority, the government parties, said that the issue of any VAT exemption needs to be considered in more detail if decisions on the construction of the City Tunnel are available. The current situation is that, on the part of the government parties, the need to review the 1974 legislation to exempt services supplied by public roads from VAT is seen. At the same time, other supplies are currently subject to VAT. This has caused us to have a very complicated system, including: as a result of an increasing proportion of roads being linked to county ownership. The town of the ship's tunnel is an important maritime action that ensures shipping and makes it cheaper. It is of great social benefit and has therefore also joined the NTP. The Government Parties assume that the work done by the Department concerned to plan and ensure that this is implemented is committed so that the tunnel can soon be realised. It is a large investment measure, but it is an investment measure for the community. I just want to conclude by saying that a ship's tunnel and a road tunnel both, in the interest of the community, in various ways, are going to ensure efficient transport, and I am reasonably sure that when the measure comes to a decision, it will be financed in such a way that we get good equal treatment here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1648	As I see it, this proposal is justified by the fact that a desire for clarity in the VAT legislation in good time before any decision on the construction of the City Tunnel is taken. And as I also understand the proposers, they believe that a VAT exemption may be essential for the construction of this and possibly other tunnels. This may happen, but I will probably assume that there must be somewhat stronger arguments for building a ship's tunnel or other important projects than the VAT system itself. After all, the representative Halleraker pointed to some of the circumstances which could potentially underlie the tunnel at Stad. As has also been pointed out in the debate, this issue has been raised in the past, not later than 2008. Reference is also made to the first paragraph of Section 6-7 of the VAT Act, which states that VAT is not payable on the turnover of services at the last stage of turnover relating to the planning, design, construction, repair and maintenance of public roads. However, this provision does not apply to ship tunnels. A lot has happened since the original section of the law came, which the representative Lundtegen was in. What has happened is that the former production part of the State Road Administration is currently separated from a separate company, Mesta AS. This is a company that competes with private actors for assignments. Actually, it should be that at least the original reason for the exemption seems to be weakened, and that it also speaks to assess the termination of the exemption and not an extension. I also agree with the majority that the VAT system is not really a good way to support individual projects. In this case, it would be more targeted to support individual projects in the form of the direct allocation of the transport budget for that type of purpose or otherwise than to establish indirect aid through specific exemptions in VAT or other tax systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1662	I have followed the speakers who have spoken, and now the Council of State, and I have not heard any justification – neither in the comments, among the speakers or from the Council of State – to oppose the proposal. So I'm going to ask the specific question: why should there be discrimination between railway and road tunnels and ship tunnels, especially in view of the fact that there is explicit policy to move transport from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1668	I believe the reason lies in the majority position, but in addition to what I said in my post, that given the separation that has now taken place in connection with Mesta, there is actually an equally good reason to consider the opposite: whether or not to actually remove the exemption that is already there today. This is a question that you will consider. I believe that in the case of City Ship Tunnel, there is a question of a single project, where one could also achieve much of the same purpose, if one considers the project otherwise reasonable, by providing it with direct state support rather than opening up a new extension of a VAT exemption already in place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1675	Let me first say that I fully agree with the Council of State that the VAT exemption should of course not in itself be the basis for realising a project. But there is no doubt that it will also help to clarify elements of the funding plan if you choose to address it. And then you also have an overview of the amortisation time and so on. I want to follow up on the previous replica: the Council of State does not see the slight distortion of competition in relation to other freight transport that you get here by not having the same conditions in the construction of e.g. railway and road in the same category?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1682	I see well the argument that Mr Halleraker is now making, and I was probably in the middle of it. So maybe we'll come to a slightly opposite conclusion. I believe that it would be equally useful to speak for the opposite, namely that one cancels the exemption that is already there today, and is based on direct appropriations from the budget for different purposes of transport. But there's something one in case has to come back to if one comes up with such thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1687	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1692	The City of Ship Tunnel is an important project that will have a significant impact on growth in the West, which should also be of great national interest. The representative Lundtigen said it was really very good; when he said that ‘there are investment measures for the community’. 18 investigations are more than enough. Now is the time for action! Derogation for a quarter of a billion. VAT can be decisive for the realisation of the City Tunnel, at least as a OPS project, as proposed by the Right. It is therefore very disappointing that the government rejects the proposal for a change of law once again. When the Right sat in government, 5 million were granted. kr for the investigation of the Stad tunnel. The right also promoted proposals in the Storting in connection with the treatment of NTP that planning and construction of the City Tunnel as a OPS project should be initiated as early as 2013. Also that proposal was voted down by the red-greens. According to Maritim Logg No. 4/2011, Ms. Møre and Mr. Romsdal, Prime Labour Party Representative, Else-May Botten, said: ‘There is a lack of central involvement in the ship’s tunnel. All that is needed to get construction going is political will.’ The representative Botten has my full support here. Most of the value creation in Norway takes place on and along the west coast and adds large values to the community. A new report states that the West is the centre of gravity, with maritime industries accounting for well over half of Norway’s economic activity and value creation within the cluster. It's closer to 10 pst. of GDP, according to the report of the maritime industry in the West. This is value creation that is at risk of stopping if one does not improve communication along the west coast. This concern is also shared by the Director of Enterprise Policy of the NHO, Petter H. Brubakk, who expressed strong concern during the recent NHO More and Romesdal Annual Conference in Molde. Brubak stressed the importance of creating stronger regional centres, and he referred to transport solutions in our region that are not good enough. He was very clear that we had to build stronger regions and get better transport solutions. With City Ship Tunnel, we remove barriers that today hinder growth and further development, not only in the region around City, but along the entire West Coast. The right considers that the gain of building the City Tunnel will be significant in relation to shorter sailing times, more predictable arrival time, safer sailing and less damage to people, ships and cargo. At the same time, it will strengthen the West and provide great environmental benefits by transferring both more people and more goods from road to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1716	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4072]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1732	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1741	In this case, the Committee promotes a divided position in which the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, wish to continue the present system, while the minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, wish to change the law so that ownership as housing law and communities cooperating with the municipalities on the operation of health and care services is covered by the Code for the Compensation of Value Added Tax in Municipalities. The purpose of the compensation scheme for municipalities and counties is to prevent distortions of competition which the value added tax can result from when municipalities face the choice between producing services even without a charge or purchasing services from private operators with a charge. Private and non-profit institutions producing health, social or educational services for which local authorities have a statutory responsibility are covered by the scheme. The Supreme Court judgment of 19 February 2010 on the Erleineholiiger Alta Foundation stated that there was a right to compensation for a foundation operating the construction and rental of nursing homes, while the municipality provided the care services to the residents. The Supreme Court judgment pointed out that VAT compensation should also contribute to the rational and flexible organisation of municipal health and social services according to the needs and priorities of each municipality. In the judgment of the Court of Justice, it states: ‘In addition, in my view, the right to compensation — and its scope — should be seen in the context of developments in the health and social sector, in particular the turnaround against complex local offers, against new care services outside traditional institutions, and with greater transparency of benefits based on an integrated interaction between private and public actors.’ The Supreme Court further states that: ‘The right to compensation for UBA will be in line with any other private legal entity required to provide health and social services’. However, the Tax Directorate has concluded that the right to VAT compensation should not be applied in cases where a housing law is the owner of housing where health and care services are provided. This affects, for example, the Per Skredder road in the municipality of Bærum, which is an offer to twelve mentally retarded residents with a need for an organised housing and other services. The law of residence has concluded an agreement with the municipality of Bærum which means that the municipality ensures the necessary services for the residents. The housing law law opened in 2007, and they received VAT compensation from the start of the construction process. The restrictive interpretation of the Supreme Court by the Tax Directorate leads to the prevention of good cooperation between public and private actors, both in the municipality of Bærum and elsewhere. It appears unreasonable that the ownership structure or the organisation of the dwellings should be decisive for the granting of VAT compensation in such cases. It must be essential that private and municipal authorities can cooperate to ensure the best possible provision of services to users without rigid rules. In its consultation exercise of 1 April 2011, HSH also supports the proposal on the following grounds: ‘HSH agrees with the argument put forward by the proposal that that interpretation of the Supreme Court precludes good cooperation between public and private actors. It appears unreasonable that, after the organisation of the dwellings, the ownership structure is essential for the granting of VAT compensation in such cases. Like the proposers, HSH believes that it must be essential for private and municipal authorities to cooperate to ensure the best possible provision of services to users.’ In letters of consultation from Brynsvejen 153 Borechtslag, Torneby Sameie and the Housing Society Per Skredder's road, everyone agrees with the proposal. Moreover, these would be negatively affected if the Tax Directorate’s claim were to be upheld. The minority believes that the value added compensation scheme is a good mechanism that helps to improve competition, even if the scheme also leads to difficult demarcations. However, the minority cannot see that there is a basis for treating foundations and other organisations of ownership, such as housing law, differently. I am addressing the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1774	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1777	The Bondevik II Government proposed that private and non-profit institutions providing statutory health, education or social services should be subject to the VAT compensation scheme of municipalities in order to prevent distortions of competition between municipal and private activities. The scheme was financed by the municipalities themselves through contributions to their other revenues. In the law case of the then government at the time, it was openly written: «A general compensation scheme may also create new distortions of competition where non-taxable services are transferred to other than the municipality». Therefore, the need for demarcation was identified and a clear distinction was made by the fact that only statutory tasks were to be covered by the scheme. The Government proposed that: «in view of the financing and administration of the scheme, as well as the uncertainty relating to the extent of the new distortions of competition, to further limit the private activities carrying out statutory tasks which are to be compensated». When I think that is a good starting point for the debate we have today, it is because it underlines that both the previous and the current government parties have been concerned that there must be limits to the scope of the system. So it's like in a lot of similar things so that we meet challenges related to where those boundaries are going. When you try to remove one twist, you can easily get new ones. It's not an argument for not removing distortions, but for having a broad approach where one sees the thematics in context. The proposal before us today understands the majority of the committee as an extension of the compensation system by allowing compensation to be granted to joint societies and settlements. In that case, compensation will be granted to a group that will not be eligible for the deduction of input VAT under the ordinary VAT system. It would violate the principle that VAT is charged to the end-user. The right to compensation is available when the rental of long-term care takes place in conjunction with the municipality and the rental service is regarded as an integral part of the provision provided by the municipality to meet its obligations, where housing and assistance services are considered a necessary whole. Because only businesses are granted the right to deduct VAT, only enterprises receive compensation. Letters from the Minister of Finance show that a right of compensation for individuals would imply an interpretation of the law that neither supports the wording of the law, nor works out the purpose of the scheme. However, it is also written that the renting of organised dwellings, in conjunction with the municipality, to users who have been granted statutory home-based services with the corresponding right to housing by the municipality, can be compensated. The Norwegian Association of Devolved People, NFU, believes that the scheme has distortions and social policy implications, that it counters the objective of being able to live as much as possible in owner-occupied housing, even if it is not intentional. It is a theme that I hope the government can look at through the sample set up to advise on social housing policy tasks and how these can be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1800	Today, the majority of the Storting, the red-green parties, commit an injustice that affects some of the weakest in our society. The issue is whether nursing homes for people with disabilities organised as housing rights or joint societies should have the same right to VAT compensation as, among other things, they should. foundations, where the offer is an integral part of the statutory offer made by the municipality. However, this somewhat boring tax policy issue covers very important issues both for municipalities and for individuals, first of all how to ensure that people with developmental disabilities and others receive good housing and care services. Are we going to let go of all good forces in the development of offers, and ensure equal treatment as long as the offer is an integral part of the municipality's care provision, or are the ideological skyscrapers to be governing? Secondly, how does society, represented by the state, treat people who take social responsibility far beyond what can be expected? In this case there is a Supreme Court judgment, and the right of residence was granted VAT compensation when the project was started. Nevertheless, these families are charged with a Kafka process and are referred to new legal processes that they cannot afford to finance. I note that both the Minister of Finance and the majority point out that it may be countervailable, but in other words, it is left to the judiciary to resolve this issue, even if there is a Supreme Court judgment. The representative proposal is based on Per Skredder's path in the Lomme Valley, but the examination of the case has shown that there are many similar examples elsewhere in the country. In this case, there were twelve parents who built a common house for their retarded children. They bought land, built the house and organized it all as a settlement. Under statutory rights for mentally retarded persons, the municipality assumed social professional responsibility for the operation. In other words, the requirement to cooperate with the municipality and as part of the integrated offer has been fulfilled. Before construction started, VAT compensation was granted from the tax office. For the first few years VAT compensation was also paid from the tax office, but later the same authority has changed. This reverse operation leads to an additional cost of NOK 1000 per month per resident. These aren't rich people with money on book. Psychiatrically impaired people are the victims of this injustice and this additional cost. There is also no private profit motive behind it. It is people who have organised an offer and contribute to an offer to mentally retarded people who are entitled to an offer. The municipality has also saved money on this organisation by paying the families for the inclusion of the housing offer. This is not a new case, as both the case-rapporteur and Mr. Ole Tegen have said. It was the bourgeois government that, at the beginning of the 2000s, provided for the VAT compensation scheme for strong protests from the red-green parties. There is, as has also been referred to, a judgment of the Supreme Court in a similar case, except that it was about a foundation. Now it's about a settlement battle. However, let me just repeat also the case rapporteur’s reference to the judgment, where it was assumed that the right to compensation for private individuals under point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 2 should not only counteract distortions of competition, but also contribute to the rational and smooth organisation of the municipal health and care services according to the individual municipality’s needs for priorities. Clearly, it cannot be said that it will be open to different ways of organising this as long as it is an integral part of the municipality's offer, and that is the case here. I do not see that there are any – and I stress some – real arguments against the fact that the VAT compensation scheme should also cover housing laws and joint ventures. As I said, it was paid earlier. Now it's stopped, and I can't view this as anything but a political demonstration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1824	This is an important matter, while it is a difficult matter. It is an important matter that requires clarification of the types of ownership that justify compensation for VAT in municipalities. It is as many people have thought: there is a great deal of uncertainty among those who want to invest. There's expensive stuff in the legal system. It's demanding for the House Bank. This leads, in sum, to the suspension of final funding. That being said, we are talking here about the right to a VAT exemption that everyone gives the impression of being linked to obligations to get this benefit. As many people have been involved, there must be clear boundaries. There must be clear and simple rules, so that bureaucracy is kept low for those who are going to practice them. For all, no VAT exemption shall apply. The representative Sanner was strong in his use of words. I would like to quote from the opposition's comments in the setting: ‘These members consider the added value compensation scheme to be a good mechanism that helps to improve competition, even if the scheme also leads to difficult demarcations. However, these members cannot see that there are grounds for treating foundations and other organisations of ownership, such as housing law, differently.» When one reads that comment, one sees that this is a great job to do, because this is at the heart of just property rights, how different property rights organisations are to be treated under VAT law. Much remains to be done to clarify precisely this, and therefore the majority of the parties agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. It is not rejected. Today, whether the municipality builds seas or is built by a foundation, reimbursement of the VAT is granted. Non-profit sector, private non-profit institutions serving households that provide health services for which the municipality has legal responsibility are also included. I'm familiar with good examples in addition to this, like Torneby Sameie at Årnes in Akershus, which is a case law union. There are eight families who have cooperated with the municipality and built eight apartments for eight young people with mental disabilities. It is statutory for dwellings to remain only for disabled persons. And it's the disabled who own the homes, so ownership is linked to the disabled. As far as I've gained experience, these people, those who have established the District Judicial Society, understand that a person wants to have clear limitations on the right of access to the apartments. We are thus aware of the need to clarify the relationship between private property rights and the obligations required to obtain the benefit, namely exemption from VAT. What's nice about the fact that in this case, the family members of the disabled are helping to make it happen, is that we can get more people who can invest in this. This will enable us to ensure more quickly that the need is met by not just public reading of the municipalities, or non-profit institutions which are traditionally responsible for the construction. It is the central party line that such ideal organizations are to be developed. Here the impression is that the right party also agrees, but when one reads it carefully, one sees that there is no difference for the Right relating to commercial operators who assume a certain responsibility, and the kind of ownership that I have now described. That's why I look forward to the government clarifying this, because I'm sure the government wants that. We have been assured of this because the need for this type of investment is great, and it is not natural for municipalities to be responsible for all investments. A good interaction with the non-profit sector is a real handle on the developments we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1853	Sometimes it should be the policy's task to make sure that people are put in the centre, not systems. Here we have a case where the system is winning, at the expense of a group in society that had deserved a completely different treatment than what is going to be the end result of this proposal in the vote we're going to have later today. I want to ask the majority: what is it you're afraid of? Is it that there are some profitable people, companies, who are going to exploit a system that is pretty well framed in relation to what is the premise of this proposal? What we are told about in this debate is simply to look at it more closely, but there is no concrete objective of wanting to meet the group concerned. But the way I understand it, it's p.t. better organise this as a foundation than a settlement. It must be interesting, seen with red-green glasses. The point is that the prerequisite for such compensation is that the offer is an integral part of the offer to be made by the municipality in order to fulfil its obligations. Then you say that if you organize it as a housing law, you fall outside – even in situations where tax offices have initially provided VAT compensation. In reality, the majority – even if you say you can look at how to get back to this – stretch their hands in the weather and say, well, we don't intend to do anything about it now – maybe once in the future. So far, we think it's fair and fair for the judiciary to take care of this. You say this knowingly that very few people in this group have the financial resources to run these things completely. I think that if it really was a will, as I know in some of the speeches by the majority, there would have been something far more offensive – something active – than this: ‘The majority indicate that the government has set up a sample to discuss and advise on social housing policy tasks and how they can be addressed.’ It's a totally non-obligatory sentence, which provides no basis for anything but a wait-and-see attitude, and pushing the problem away. I'm sorry to have to say that, but here you leave the system to be the leader, not people. That's the opposite that should be our problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1869	I understand those who say that this is a difficult matter, in the sense that here it is easy to put groups of people up against the system, and vice versa. I also understand that in some cases it may be difficult to defend rules that you have laid down earlier when you have entered into this scheme. There is every reason to recall that when the VAT compensation scheme came in 2004, in the context of the 2004 tax regime, it was based on a long investigation. The sample that provided the investigation went quite far into providing a general scheme for VAT exemptions, while the then bourgeois government went in the opposite direction, had a narrowing interpretation and presented a proposal that was more restrictive than the selection for many different reasons. So the fact that one has also looked at the system in terms of the system's practical possibility is probably not something that characterizes just the majority who today advocates that the proposal be annexed to the protocol. It's actually like other people have been thinking about the same things. What was important, and which was the purpose of the general compensation scheme, was to neutralise the VAT, so that it would have the least impact on the municipality's choice between producing services itself, without charge, and purchasing the service from private individuals with a charge. The scheme was not intended as a support scheme for the municipal sector. The scheme is, as has been pointed out earlier, financed by the municipalities, through the features of state transfers. The scheme is thus so-called province neutral to the State. It is the case today that only private and non-profit institutions producing healthcare, educational services or social services that the municipality or county municipality is required by law to provide, which are covered by the compensation scheme. I think there's reason to hold on to it. The scheme shall only discourage private producers in a market with the municipality as a customer or as a competitor from taking higher remuneration as a result of a non-deductibility of VAT. As has also been pointed out, the criterion of activity makes that collectives governed by public law, housing law, are not covered by the compensation scheme. This is not a service production by a private enterprise. In fact, by extending the scheme to private operators who do not meet the business criterion, a situation arises in which the main principle of the VAT law on the retail charging of VAT is set aside. So far about the system. What we see is that in many areas in the future, the need for closer cooperation between municipalities, public, non-profit institutions and others will increase in order to find good solutions in many areas of care. It will affect the area mentioned here – care for the disabled. It will probably also cover the area of elderly services and care for the elderly very much in the future. I think it's important that someone take it with them. Here the need will increase, and one will see that the way to organise the implementation of measures will also change, and that there will be a development here that we do not have a good and complete overview of today. So I believe that through a proposal for a representative now to contribute to the implementation of a more general system enough is to move forward somewhat quickly. I believe that doing so can have great effects, precisely because the need will change, and the need will increase. The basis for taking a broader assessment of this issue is absolutely present. From my point of view, I would like to contribute to this happening, so that it is also seen in the context of what was said by the rapporteur, that one will also look at this in connection with the work currently being done on social housing. There are also direct support opportunities through the housing banking system and other ways to organise a good offer for, among others. this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1887	To me, it seems that it is ideology that drives the majority, not practical politics. So there are private individuals who have taken a responsibility that the municipality should have taken. So they've come up with the best thing between public and private cooperation. It seems that the system is far more important than the individual – and there is nothing new from the red-green. Lundtägen stated that they did not reject the claim, and the Council of State was also in the same position. Then my question is, will the Council of State elaborate on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1893	I refer to my post, and my main point is that in this area both the service needs and the organisation of service needs will change. I believe that this is the basis for looking at this in a broader context, because it can also have major effects that one has not thought through. I think it makes sense and is wise to take the time needed to look at other aspects of possible introduction of the proposal that the minority here is in favour of. So I feel a need to go through the matter more closely before I can give a final answer on what the future will look like in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1898	I understand that the Minister of Finance does not want to deal with such matters right above the table, but let me show that I have had several written and oral questions about the matter. At each crossroads, the Minister of Finance has said that he should take a closer look at the matter. I feel that he also says now. Let me also point out that here there is a Supreme Court judgment that would mean that a political intersection can be made. What has been the problem so far is that the Minister of Finance has referred to the legal system, and that is what my question relates to, because there are several issues that are going on: Is it the case that the Minister of Finance is now going to conduct a political review to look at the VAT compensation system, whether it can also include housing laws? Because it's the way that several of these, among other things. in Per Skredder's Road, made their investment decision after they had received a yes to VAT compensation. And then it's not enough to refer to the House Bank or others. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1905	As I also said earlier, in my post, I believe that there is absolutely a need to review the legislation in this area, but then linked to a more general development and not to a single issue. Because I see quite clearly that there will be several similar cases in this area – not just those that are now in the loop, as the representative Sanner pointed out. In particular, in the field of care for the elderly, I see that there may be many different ways to organise this, which makes it necessary to clarify the basis for VAT compensation. I also pointed out to Ot.prp. No 1 for 2004–2005, where the then government assessed this. There may be grounds for reassessment now, as many things have changed since 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1910	Now, after all, the previous government brought some relief to the system that was at the time, so I think it might be a little unreasonable to bother that you didn't do any more. But we from the then government parties are absolutely more than willing to review it again. That is why we have been involved in promoting this matter. I am very pleased that the Council of State says that social development means that you should look at this. Because if it's the loss of income you're afraid of, I think the loss of income for the state is going to be much bigger if you make arrangements through your organization that basically say that the municipality gets fixed – final sentence. It's going to be the most expensive of all! So my question is, the council says he'll look at this. What time can the Storting expect to be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1919	The latter is probably hard to give an exact timeline for, but I see absolutely a need to go through this from – as I said – the more general social development. For the sake of the whole, I want to refer to what was said in 2004, without anyone using it as a witness of truth. See page 211 of Ot.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004: ‘A general compensation scheme covering all private and non-profit institutions carrying out statutory tasks can be very extensive. The Ministry therefore considers it necessary, taking into account the financing and administration of the scheme and the uncertainty associated with the extent of the new distortions of competition, to further limit the private activities carrying out statutory tasks which are to be compensated.’;» It was the assessment one made at that time. Then it may well be that a new review now, in the light of developments in the future, can lead to something else. But I want to start from what's here, and then do that investigation and get to the Storting with it when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1931	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 4072]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e1951	Stock exchanges and CSDs form an important part of the financial infrastructure of a country. It's the state that approves, and it's the state that grants concession. In 2001, the stock exchange was privatised and subsequently merged with the Securities Centre in 2007. Today, developments have become that Oslo Børs is the only independent stock exchange in the Nordic region. The Financial Committee met with the Oslo Børs VPS at their premises on Tuesday 15 March 2011. Here, good information and updates were given that I and the Right want to take on more than the government until now has wanted to do. In Europe, mergers and acquisitions of national stock exchanges are lagging behind. American exchanges currently own eleven national European exchanges. Oslo Børs is the world leader in maritime food, shipping and energy. European authorities have opened up competition, with new rules opening up competition to the stock exchange. New regulation opening up competition for the settlement and registration of securities is under preparation. At the same time, the requirements for fast and modern technologies are changing dramatically. As a result, the Group is experiencing strong competition and has asked the Ministry of Finance to change the terms of merger and to seek equal treatment with similar actors in Europe – without any follow-up from the Minister of Finance. That is why today I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to this very debate. Oslo Børs is important to attract risk capital to Norwegian companies. Risk capital is essential for business value creation, and the Right believes that it must be a wise objective for Norwegian authorities to contribute to a viable infrastructure in the Norwegian capital market. The securities industry in Norway must be in a position to compete in the same way as others. As mentioned, Oslo Børs in a letter of 10 August 2009 the Department of Change of Conditions. A request for an answer was sent in January 2011, but both enquiries are still unanswered by the Ministry of Finance. In my view, this is arrogant and something of the background that I have invited the Council of State to the Stortinget for debate. The framework conditions for Oslo Børs are important, and if they send several concerns messages to the authorities over a year and a half without it being black, this is quite critical in the Right's view. Oslo Børs writes in its 2010 Annual Report: ‘The foreign growth of competing market places makes it unlikely that the group will maintain its current market share. However, it is expected that during the strategy period Oslo Stock Exchanges will continue to be the main market passport for the quoted securities and that settlement and registry services will largely take place in the VPS.» They continue: ‘Overall, these conditions will result in a significant decrease in the profitability of trade and settlement. This makes it necessary to streamline the activities in general and the core activities in particular.’» This is where the challenge lies for Oslo Børs. Several international investment firms have now established an infrastructure with automated routers connected to a number of market venues. Small investment firms are offered interconnections. This helps traditional exchanges to experience increased competition and price pressure on trade – which is, of course, good. Investment firms want alternative markets to ensure competition and there is a strong requirement for a single European securities settlement and optional use of securities registers. The introduction of new EU legislation is therefore expected to change essential elements of the financial market. Increased competition from the stock exchanges is a matter of which the Right is a supporter. Oslo Børs has pointed out to the Norwegian authorities that their competitive conditions are weakened by strange rules and cause disadvantages that competitors do not have. The group currently has a strong position, and it is from this position that they need to adapt to the new competitive environment in Europe and the impact it has on the Norwegian value chain in terms of listing, trade, clearing and settlement. The terms of merger of the concept include, inter alia: that they are not allowed to outsource their core business. This means that the VPS of Oslo Bør has three concession companies, three IT departments, two financial functions and two legal departments. The granting of loans to individuals for cross-company tasks must be subject to prior approval by the Financial Supervisory Authority, which has a long duration of proceedings. Tasks that are desired jointly, e.g. something as simple as renting a machinery room must be subject to prior approval by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The rental of systems/operations from outside must be subject to prior approval by the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is such that the Governing Board is deprived of authority on behalf of its owners when the dividend is also to be approved by the Ministry of Finance, despite the existence of general legislation. It was possible to introduce notification obligations and not authorisation obligations instead. It would simplify for all parties. In this way, the situation in Oslo Exchange is comparable to that of other financial corporations. I am not sure that there is a basis for continuing special treatment, and that the company's board of directors and owners could instead normally be given responsibility for the dividends on group contributions under the applicable concession terms and regulations. Furthermore, a mechanism in which the Authority specifically assesses the level of dividends and group contributions violates fundamental principles of the responsibilities of the board and its owners. Furthermore, the present scheme imposes significant administrative burdens on the authorities and the undertaking. In addition, the terms of merger of the group prohibit the outsourcing of activities, such as: IT services and joint functions within the group. I believe that the level of detail of the terms of the authorities in some areas can be very strict, especially where the law already regulates the area in question. The merged Oslo Stock Exchange was established to increase flexibility and ensure that the Norwegian infrastructure actors moved in the same direction. In addition, the merger was important to maintain investment willingness in order to maintain a competitive infrastructure in a small market in Europe. Oslo Børs is the world leader in maritime food and among the largest in the world in shipping and energy. The stock exchange is now the only independent stock exchange in the Nordic region. VPS in Norway and VP in Denmark are the only independent individuals in the Nordic region. In Europe, there are now massive mergers and acquisitions of national stock exchanges. Correspondingly, there are securities centres. European authorities want competition, standardised European infrastructure and fewer national exchanges. The Norwegian authorities — also the Right — have seen the value of having an independent national Oslo Børs. As a result, it has been exposed to competition for several years and several actions are underway from the EU system. There is therefore a need for the government and the Stortinget to have a debate on Oslo Børs' framework conditions, because the stock exchange in Norway has a strong position in the market. Right-wing wants a strong and important Oslo Børs, and evolution shows that there is a need for a level playing field with their competitors, which they do not have today. This is the responsibility of the authorities to clean up. If the government wants stricter conditions for Oslo Stock Exchange's VPS than for other exchanges, I think the government has to justify this much better than they have been able to do so to date. The statistics show that almost half of the private shareholders in Oslo Stock Exchange are over 60 years old. Over 75 pst. of the shareholders are men, and more than half live either in Oslo, Rogaland, Akershus or Hordaland. Right wants to stimulate more people to use the stock market as saving – either saving in individual shares or in different fund solutions. The stock market is an important tool for business, and also for the state, to invest in businesses instead of just focusing on housing, boat and cabin. The shares in Oslo Exchange are freely negotiable and owned by Norwegian and foreign companies. In order for Oslo Børs to remain an independent entity, one depends on having satisfied, good and competent owners. Therefore, it might be wise to listen to the management board of Oslo Børs, who wants the board to determine for itself the amount of any dividends from the company, limited, of course, by the capital requirements, buffer capital and other requirements imposed on the company. The point is that the owners of the legislation can control this themselves. An exchange listing increases access to capital and makes the shares more liquid. Many investors invest only in listed companies, including: because those companies are subject to stricter requirements than others. It provides greater security for investors. More than half of the brokerage houses at Oslo Stock Exchange are foreign, and international investors dominate daily trading. It helps to strengthen Oslo Stock Exchange and the Norwegian financial market. In order to develop Oslo Stock Exchange services and to be able to stand alone against the large groups, cooperation agreements have been concluded with Singapore Exchange, Toronto Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange on different cooperation models. National and international companies have many exchanges to choose from when they are going on the stock market. No one chooses Oslo Stock Exchange to be comfortable with the stock exchange, but actually because there are best opportunities for them to raise capital for their business. Both the Oslo Stock Exchange and the Securities Centre are, as infrastructure companies, characterised by a high proportion of fixed costs that do not vary with the level of activity. The focus is therefore on cost management, and the stock exchange has reported several times that this is an Achilles heel that the ministry does not want to deal with. With global competition for capital, it is important for a small market such as the Norwegian that not only individual companies but also the stock market as a whole appear attractive. This is why it is a good thing for Norway and Norwegian business that we have an independent Oslo Børs. It has been ten years since the stock exchange was privatised and four years since the merger with the Securities Centre was carried out. On the right, it seems that it is time for a review of conditions, conditions and legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2012	I think it's important for the debate we're about to have, that I say a few words about what Oslo Børs is. In addition to what the interpellant has had, Oslo Børs is the parent company of three separate, concession-related companies, each of which has different functions in the securities market. It's the Securities Center – or the Securities Center ASA, to be correct – Oslo Børs ASA and Oslo Clearing ASA. We must have it in mind when we discuss the matter. The CSD is a very special institution because it is authorised by the Ministry of Finance to register financial instruments. This implies that the VPS maintains the recording of investor rights in financial instruments of significant importance for the Norwegian economy. The CSD is a natural monopoly and, in addition, the only company that has a concession to operate the rights register in Norway. In other words, the company is in a monopolistic situation. Oslo Børs ASA itself is the only company in Norway authorised to hold stock exchanges for shares in the country. It implies that the institution is the one that actually organises the market for listing public limited-liability companies on stock exchanges in Norway. In the case of Oslo Clearing ASA, they are allowed to operate the clearing house of derivatives and equity instruments traded on Oslo Exchange. When I start there, it's because the three institutions mentioned in the Oslo Børs VPS group are an important part of Norway's financial infrastructure. So the prime concern of the Minister of Finance is actually to make sure that this infrastructure works in line with what is the prerequisite, and also in line with what was the prerequisite when the merger was granted a concession in its time. I'll get back to it. The importance of the institution implies that legislation requires public authorisation to conduct the various activities carried out by those undertakings. Furthermore, the law imposes a number of requirements on such undertakings, including organisational requirements and the conduct of their activities. If we go to the merger, it is that in the decision taken by the Ministry on 8 November 2007, a number of conditions had to be put in place to approve the merger between the holding companies. First, the organisation of all concession-related entities in the group was required, including the fact that the formal and actual managers of the business must be employed by the companies concerned and that the real organisation should not deviate from the legal organisation. It was an important condition. Secondly, a number of specific requirements were set for the organisation of the Securities Centre, including: in the case of the composition of the Board of Directors – that more than half of the total number of members of the Board of Directors are independent of Oslo Exchanges, further that the organisation of the undertaking shall at all times be such as to enable the VPS to be restored as an independent entity immediately, without being dependent on other companies, outside persons and functions, and furthermore that dividends and group contributions from the VPS ASA to other group companies cannot be provided without the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Thirdly, conditions relating to outsourcing to group companies or others, including: requested that no core tasks be outsourced and that contracts for outsourcing of functions/services other than core tasks be submitted to the Financial Supervisory Authority for approval. Fourth, price-related requirements were imposed, transparent prices and market access were to be provided, namely that prices and possible discount schemes of Oslo Børs ASA and VPS ASA should be publicly available and that undertakings should have objective and publicly available criteria. The reason for this is the importance of these companies to ensure that we have a financial infrastructure – to use that word – in this area that should work well. Furthermore, there was a need to ensure that the rights register of the VPS can be isolated so that it can be handled separately from the rest of the group. This suggests, among other things: that tasks and functions which are part of concessional activities under the Securities Registration Act shall not be outsourced to other entities. Furthermore, the conditions shall ensure that Oslo Børs does not have a significant influence over the VPS, as a CSD is an important infrastructure provider also for companies that can compete directly with Oslo Børs. These included: the reason for ensuring that the Board of Directors of the VPS is independent of Oslo Exchange. So it is that the Oslo Børs/VPS association was in many ways a natural step towards strengthening the competitiveness of that type of company in Norway in relation to foreign operators. The merger is justified by a desire both to strengthen and to lay the foundations for the overall development of what can be called the securities chain in Norway. Over a period of ten years, the legislator has privatised the infrastructure undertakings in the securities market and has facilitated consolidation. However, it is also true that when one combines different businesses within a value chain, whether it is in this area or in other areas, there are also clear concerns because it may negatively affect competition. That's the one. The second is that in some cases such an association may also be suitable for weakening the trust and integrity of the individual institution. Therefore, as I see it, it has been important to ensure access to VPS services also for competitors of Oslo Exchange after any association. As far as the role of the VPS in the Norwegian financial market is concerned, it has been essential that the core and concession-related activities of the VPS are maintained as an independent entity. I believe that this has been done through the terms of the Ministry of Finance in the matter in question. So I've registered, just like the interpellant, that Oslo Børs believes that the group, under today's terms, does not fully recover the synergies and opportunities that were intended for the merger. However, former management of the two holding companies Oslo Børs and VPS recommended in due course a merger for their shareholders. I think they were well aware of what kind of demands you had to make about concession, and that one must also assume that they agreed to merger on that basis. Once again, my responsibility as Minister of Finance is primarily to ensure sound institutions that are responsible for these important tasks and, at the same time, to organise them in a way that gives a well-functioning financial market. I would also like to say that we are – and have been – interested in continuing a dialogue with Oslo Børs on this matter. We consider some aspects related to the concession terms of the Financial Supervisory Authority. It would be natural for us, when we get them to the Department, to invite Oslo Børs to a further discussion on what is going to happen in the future, but of course with the aim that the Minister of Finance must in some way take care of his interests, and then we will see whether it is possible to weigh the considerations that are important for Oslo Børs against what is the basis for the concession. We have an open mind about such a dialogue, but guaranteeing the outcome of the dialogue is another matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2044	I share the Council's history. In the context of privatisation and subsequent merger, that type of start-up mechanism was entirely reasonable some years ago – ten, eleven years ago, and four and five years ago – to ensure market confidence and to ensure that Oslo Børs VPS Holding got the start of what they were actually hoping to get. So there's been quite a lot of development after that. No one challenges the story of whether it was wise or unwise to introduce this, but the point of my interpellation was to look forward. Part of the reason I want to look forward is that the Storting as such is not invited by the government to have a position on how Oslo Børs is going to develop. In fact, Stortinget should have been invited to have a discussion about that. So Stortinget would like to take a little control on his own. Because when Oslo Børs VPS contacts the department that one cannot outsource part of the core business – yes, it was okay before. It is now apparent that Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and Austria have clearly the same situation – their stock exchanges do not have these conditions. Looking at the Norwegian banks, which are also important in the Norwegian capital infrastructure, all these common infrastructure have through joint data centres. If you look at the Norwegian Bank's settlement system, it's separated from ErgoGroup, and there's no claim from the Ministry that they should have it on their own. That's why I don't see any logical explanation for having one, two, and preferably three different departments within the same companies. It was yesterday's policy, not necessarily that of the future. If there is a point that we want to have an autonomous Norwegian exchange, which is privatised, which has Norwegian owners and Norwegian board members, it must be something attractive for the owners in addition to the fact that it is nice to own shares in a stock exchange, among other things. what I am asking in principle for a small discussion with the Council of State: after all, we have a general regulatory framework that limits the Board’s dividend policy, by allowing the Financial Supervisory Authority to receive a notification and also to assess whether it is in accordance with the legislation, and at the same time with an embellishment regarding the outsourcing of the core business, which obviously no longer has the same meaning as before, Johnsen, although he does not say so much about it in his reply itself, that he should take a look at this in the future. My third question is, can he take Stortinget with him on advice? For the time being, the Stortinget has not heard a pipe from the government regarding Oslo Børs, during this large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2055	With the role and importance of Oslo Børs with adjacent and present companies to have a market that works well in Norway, it would be natural, when we now get the investigations that we have requested from the Financial Supervisory Authority, that we also find a suitable way to invite the Storting to a discussion on these issues, because these are important issues on which it is also reasonable to anchor in a discussion in the Stortinget. I think it's natural when we get there. What Oslo Børs has said and pointed out in meeting with the Ministry is that special Norse terms of merger reduce and distort the possibility of providing services at optimal cost. Of course, that's one reason. An consideration that must then be balanced against it is the consideration of the functionality of the system itself and in a way that is the role of Oslo Børs in financial infrastructure as well. As I said in my main post, Oslo Børs operates various concessional businesses. However, there are no special restrictions on Oslo Stock Exchange and the ability of the marketplace to compete under similar conditions with other exchanges in Europe. So I think it's important to bring it into the discussion that Oslo Børs and the group it represents is the result of a vertical integration with different providers of that kind of service in Norway. In other words, they serve the entire value chain from trading on Oslo Stock Exchange until it is settled and booked in the investor's account. This means that Oslo Børs has great market power. It's not like that in the rest of Europe. It is therefore not possible to compare Oslo Børs with other European stock exchange groups, which often consist of stock exchanges that have been merged on a horizontal basis. For example, the Danish and Swedish stock exchange has joined forces with it in the United States and the Baltic States. I think it's an important discussion that the representative Kambe is now discussing. And, as I said, when we get the assessments we've asked from the Financial Supervisory Authority, I think it's natural and correct that one also invites the Stortinget to have a discussion about it. There are many ways to present it to the Storting, for example: for documents in which it is natural to include them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2068	I agree with both the inter-pellant and the finance minister that the three companies mentioned, which were merged in 2007, are an important part, perhaps one of the most important market places and the most important framework, in order to obtain both capital and the turnover of holdings in Norwegian enterprises, etc. in Norway. It is important to have a framework that contributes to the safe operation of this infrastructure, solid institutions and, in particular, good competitive conditions both at national and international level. That is why I want to commend the interpellant, who addresses an important matter that deserves a discussion here in Stortinget. However, as regards the merger of those referred to as systemically important companies, it was precisely justified by the desire to strengthen — and lay the foundation for — the overall development of a securities chain in Norway. I also agree with the interpellant that it is valuable to ensure capital flow and visibility to small and medium-sized Norwegian companies, and that this can best be done by having our own independent stock exchange and central securities exchange in Norway. Looking at the return on equity in recent years, Oslo Børs has also had very good development and high earnings, also compared to other large stock exchanges we can compare with. It shows that it is possible to compete, even as a small, independent stock exchange in Europe. Quite briefly: I was at home and took care of our new world citizen when the committee visited Oslo Børs last. But the sooner I've been on the finance committee, I've been visiting Oslo Børs and I know something about it. As I understand it, there are some peculiarities that make Oslo Børs, both in Norway, in Europe and in the world, an attractive actor in the international arena. After I have been referred to, the stock exchange itself now develops strong sectors and strong international presence as one of the main reasons for that success. In addition, as many people know, and as others have commented, the stock exchange is very big on sea food, energy and shipping – something to be proud of at all. With regard to Oslo Børs’ position in the market, it is important that we ensure a good source of capital for business, and in this sense I also understand that 2010 was a record year in many ways, among other things. the availability of loan capital. But there have been turbulent times in international financial markets in recent years, and developments are constantly taking place. Structural changes in the international capital market result in a continuous change in the competitive situation. For example, the EU has: following the financial crisis, intensified work on the regulation of the infrastructure of financial instruments. In the 2010 Annual Report, Oslo Børs himself writes: ‘The foreign growth of competing market places makes it unlikely that the group will maintain the market share we have today. The recent turmoil in financial markets and increased competition lead to uncertainty about the volume of transactions and the level of activity in the future.» [[...]] The market shares of the stock exchanges fall, but competing exchanges fall even faster. Overall, developments will bring about a significant reduction in the profitability of trade and settlement. So it is from the annual report. However, the same report continues with the expectation that Oslo Børs: ‘continued to be the principal market place for the quoted securities and that settlement and registry services will largely take place in the VPS’. It even states that reduced market shares can in the long term be ‘remedied by an increase in the volume of trade in general’. So there's hope for the future, if you can adapt to new times. In conclusion, it gives me the opportunity to say a few words about what the interpellant refers to as ‘detail regulation’ and ‘restrictions’. As the Minister of Finance had in mind, Oslo Børs VPS Holding is a large group of different businesses. The different businesses within this parent company are very special companies that are subject to strict conditions, among other things. related to concession. There aren't so many companies in Norway that have it, but it's because we think these are very important companies for society. And when, for example, the Oslo Stock Exchange Group. serving the entire securities chain is not the way it is done anywhere else. Therefore, it is not necessarily a matter of non-discrimination, but of seeing that different companies, different structures, are treated differently in Norway, because it is quite different from many other countries it is natural to compare with. Finally – time runs from me – I just want to say that like many other matters, this case is a basis for balancing the considerations between many things, and here I stand on the side of the Minister of Finance. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2106	I think, initially, that it is important to point out that both the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Committee say this is an important debate. It illustrates that there has been a lot of water in the sea since Einar's prophecy in the 1980s, when he said that stimulating the stock exchange is like carrying oats to a dead horse. So mistakes can also be made by a prophet. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a good review. The stock market has a very central role to play. Equity has a very central role in any activity in order to finance it. It also has a central role for any owner, for any owner, at least in larger companies listed on the stock exchange, to be able to change its ownership interest or to sell and market its shares in a market that is both transparent and well regulated. There are huge centres for reducing the risk of owning equity instruments. Although we have a rich state, we must not forget that the diversity of ownership is very important in order to develop new ideas and finance innovation and innovation in the Norwegian society. So the stock exchange has an important role to play both in reducing the risk of equity instruments and in increasing the liquidity of those who are there. We were visiting the Staten pension fund Norway in winter. It was then said that the proportion of shares traded through Oslo Børs is constantly declining and is moving into smaller regulated markets. It was also the committee chairman. I think that's a development one should follow closely. It may be time for the Minister of Finance to shift his focus a little bit, from detailed regulation of Oslo Børs to rather follow up on what happens when you move turnover into less regulated markets. I agree, the VPS has a very central role in keeping track of who owns, and who owns the different companies at all times. But it is also the case that the EU is now going to open up competition in that type of service, at least we got the impression of it when we were at the State pension fund in Norway. There is a risk that companies may consider moving out if they do not have a service in Norway that can follow competition internationally. So it is important to allow the stock exchange to develop in line with international competition and the international flow it has in the markets. Now my impression is that there is a rather strong wish from large stock exchanges outside, among other things. The Nasdaq stock exchange, to get quite a lot into the Norwegian securities market. Specialisations tend to be out-of-date, so that there is no ability to follow developments. The intention may have been good when they were introduced, but the effects get so crazy after a time. What's also happening through detailed regulation is shifting responsibility from a board to an administration. This may lead to responsibility on later occasions. Detail adjustments also increase the costs of companies and transactions. As I said, in an international competitive situation, it can be quite critical. As I said, I would like to suggest to the Minister of Finance perhaps to shift focus – to the fact that there is still a need to have good control over sales outside Oslo Børs. If Oslo Børs is going to be able to survive as an independent unit, I don't have that much education about. It's going to be tough. The competitive pressure is high both for investors and for companies. If Oslo Børs will be able to resist the pressure coming from the outside, we'll see, but at least they should have the opportunity to control their own decisions around that. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2123	Oslo Børs and the Swedish Securities Agency, abbreviated as VPS, applied for the approval of mergers between the holding company VPS Holding ASA and Oslo Børs Holding ASA and received it in 2007. The new holding company Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA became, after the merger, the owner of the concession-related companies Oslo Børs ASA, VPS ASA and VPS Clearing ASA. The merger of Oslo Børs and VPS would strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian investment infrastructure undertakings in relation to the corresponding foreign actors. The requested organisation, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, went too far to contract concessional core activities in the VPS to a joint administrative sister enterprise. The Ministry of Finance therefore placed conditions for the merger so that the concession-related activity remained in the VPS. Furthermore, in the view of the Ministry of Finance at that time, it was important that the VPS be ensured as maritime entities in the group for the purposes of the rights register function. For competition reasons, it was important that Oslo Børs did not have a significant influence over the VPS. In 2000, Oslo Børs was privatised, from a sea renting institution to a public limited-liability company. Since then, international developments towards monopolies have strengthened through acquisitions and mergers. I'm going to be the first to say that it's hard to secure a national stock exchange like Oslo Stock Exchange, but this can't be a surprise for people who live in and will further stimulate the free international capital market. That's why I also noticed the representative, Gundersen, who was reasonably humble in terms of the possibilities to secure it, and I expect that to be said in respect of the international capital forces and the monopoly that we see internationally. The representative, Mr. Kambe, said earlier here that concession terms were yesterday's policy. It is well known that concession terms are yesterday's policy from the Right, but in fact it is necessary in the view of the government's representatives to discharge social responsibility. The representative, Gundersen, said that it was in line with the international flow that special regulations were out of date. Yes, for a period of time we have experienced that kind of argument, but we are now in a new phase in which regulation and restrictions in the free flow are seen as more appropriate and important in order to solve the upcoming challenges, seen in relation to the weakness of the free flow. I will end with the fact that the VPS, the Swedish Securities Agency, is a public register in line with the Business Register in Brønnøysund. It's a basic infrastructure, it's a monopoly business. Therefore, there are good arguments for separating VPS from Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA. If Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA finds the 2007 concession terms – and that was in 2007, it was not long ago – too strict, the argument for separating the VPS, the Swedish Securities Agency, from the Oslo Børs VPS Holding ASA will be further strengthened. That's what I think the owners of the institution should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2138	Just first to Lundtigen: it wasn't like that that Gundersen or I mentioned yesterday's concession terms, meant that they were laid off. We just thought that yesterday's concession terms should have been revised, re-examined and presented for magnification and government. That's what was the point of the interpellation, not abolishing the conditions. I think it has been good to have a debate in Stortinget on Oslo Børs. I have a little idea that a debate about Oslo Børs is to take the red-green a little on the bed. That's not what the red-green primary works on. Rather, they give descriptions of the reasons for the merger rather than looking forward. There is no doubt that today we have a very good Oslo Børs VPS, and that the merger has been successful. The point is to ensure that when we see how the European stock exchanges are developing, and if we want to have an independent Norwegian stock exchange, we may have to do something different than you have done — four years ago and eleven years ago. This debate has not yet taken place. The government has not even invited it, but on the contrary ignored it when Oslo Børs VPS has sent several letters to the ministry. Oslo Børs VPS has a strong focus on aquaculture, energy and shipping – industries that are incredibly important for tax revenue in Norway, for the welfare state of Norway and to secure companies that are going out into the world, capital. If you are to have access to potential investors, it is important to have a professional stock exchange – as we have today – and the professional stock exchange tells us that other exchanges that are significantly larger have other measures, although of course they are different. Introduction fees, price quotation fees, having a strong, good infrastructure, modern technology, etc. costs a lot of money. Of course, users have to pay for it, and it's part of the picture when companies choose which exchanges they should be listed on. Then we have to enable our stock exchange to participate in that competition on equal terms, and other countries do not. That's what's been the issue for the Oslo Børs VPS. Let us continue the competition, so that one can contribute to the functioning of the Norwegian stock market, including for Norwegian retail investors, which has a lower threshold for buying shares on Oslo Exchange than they have for buying them on the Nasdaq stock exchange, on the London Stock Exchange or where it might be. It has something to do with respect for the Norwegian stock market. I think we've taken the red-green a little bit to bed with this discussion. And instead, the Minister of Finance gets to deliver significantly faster than so far, given the letters that have so far been unanswered by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2153	The quoted quote from Einar Förde is probably one of the quotations that – not so much now, but in earlier times – was used quite often in Stortinget. To give my approval, I can tell the representative, Gundersen, that I like the best horses that are alive, and I carry with joy oats to horses that are alive – so the representative can interpret what's in it. I have three brief comments at the end of the discussion. Firstly, there is a broad consensus that Oslo Børs has and will have a very central role in the Norwegian and, to some extent, also in the international securities market, in areas where it is natural for Oslo Børs to have good products and to have good competitiveness. Then I hear that we also agree that it is important that this turnover takes place in safe and regulated forms. It's kind of part of the purpose of the concession terms that lie there. My second point is that either one is a large or small investor, it is important that one sees that it is safe to invest – systemically. Then courses can go up and down. There is always a risk of investing in the stock market, but at least the system must function and be reliable. That is the background to the concession requirements that have been imposed, because it is the confidence of the entire system that is essential, not the detailed regulation itself, but that one based on clear and good concession rules is based on the trust that one should have in this system. My third point is that Norway is the world's second largest institutional investor. We invest heavily on all the world's exchanges, and we own about 1.7 to 1.8 pst. of the total listed companies on the world stock exchanges – around 8 000 different companies. In other words, we are a large capital exporter. I also think it is important when we are a large capital exporter, that those who look at Norway see that Norway is a country where we have a securities market based on trust, which has great transparency and which is functioning well. Then I think it is important that we, on the one hand, raise investor protection against the need of Oslo Børs to be in a good competitive position, and that Oslo Børs is given the opportunity to develop and exploit its advantages in specific areas that characterise the Norwegian securities market. We will come back to this in an appropriate context, both in terms of Oslo Stock Exchange activities and other important things in the financial market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2166	That is when the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2172	Then we're going to vote. Case No. (1) The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2182	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget, to present an obliging progress plan for the digitisation of the radio medium.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2209	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to postpone the choice of technology for the future radio network and to suspend the closure of the FM network.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2224	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the launch of the plan for the future use of the FM network, including as soon as possible to determine which local radio groups could be expected to use it after 2017, and to return appropriately to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2406	During the debate, Gunnar Gundersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to submit legislative proposals to the Stortinget for the transformation of the NUF into a limited liability company so that this becomes a simpler process than the government proposes through Prop. [[2010-2011]] 78 L In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2692	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2702	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2710	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 58 on value added tax is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2762	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 25 November 2010 amended as follows: on the excise duty on fuel [[(chapter. 5538 items 70 and 71:]] (a) petrol 1 sulphur-free petrol NOK 2,62, 2nd low-sulphurised petrol NOK 2,66, 3rd second petrol: NOK 2,66. (b) Oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles NOK 1,62, 2nd low-sulphurised mineral oil NOK 1,67, 3rd other mineral oil: kr 1,67, 4th biodiesel: kr 0. [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] The existing second term becomes a new third term. The existing third term becomes a new fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2833	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose a new section 6-9 of the VAT Act so that construction, maintenance, etc. by fairways and tunnels are exempted from VAT at the latest level of turnover and are therefore treated in the same way as other infrastructure structures such as roads, bridges and tunnels.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2860	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that the law on the compensation of value added tax in municipalities should apply to housing companies and communities cooperating with municipalities for the operation of health and care services. If necessary, request that proposals be submitted to the Storting to ensure this.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2883	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-19.ana.ud483e2896	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
