ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e22	The representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats. For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen For the county of Hedmark: Farahnaz Bahrami and Torbjørn Dybsand For the county of Hordaland: Torcil Åmland and Toril Webenstad For Rogaland County: Marit Amundsen and Arne Bergsvåg For South-Trundellag County: Siv Aida Rui Skatem For Eastfold County: Kari Agerup, Tage Pettersen and John Thune From the Enlarged Group of the Progress Party there is a notice that the granted leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth is changed to health leave from 4 October until further notice. – This message is taken into account. The Vara representative, Torkil Åmland, is proposed to continue to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Mr Dagfinn Højbråten has applied for leave on 4 and 5 October to attend the conference in Barcelona as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e102	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e105	On behalf of the representatives of Borghild Tenden, Hans Olav Syversen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to make a proposal to improve the system of housing savings for young people. [[BSU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e110	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e113	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Dagrun Eriksen, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself to present a proposal for a representative on the professionalisation and development of choral and vocal music in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e118	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 September 2011: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 30 September 2011 at 2.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: Constitution of Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim as State Secretary for the Council of State Life Signe Navarsete is extended from 3 October 2011 and from the time of the birth of Secretary of State Hege Solbakken. State Secretary Tone Toften is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen. State Secretary Lotte Grepp Knutsen is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary to the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt with effect from 27 December 2011. State Secretary Mina Gerhardsen is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg from the time the Prime Minister's office decides. State Secretary Tone Toften is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud. State Secretary Lotte Grepp Knutsen is hereby appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen with accession on 27 December 2011. State Secretary Mina Gerhardsen is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt from the time the Prime Minister's office decides.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e139	The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e151	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. Following these insertions, a row of up to six rows is allowed. Five government councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, with a subsequent row of up to four lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed among the groups as follows: Party of Workers 18 posts, Party of Progress 12 posts, Right 9 posts, Party of Socialists 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Party of Christian People 3 posts and 1 posts. If the government parties want to merge two five-minute posts in order to provide parliamentary leaders with the main posts in 10 minutes, it will be available. The same is true in the case of one of the Councils, by allowing the Minister of Justice to use one of the Workers' Party posts in 5 minutes. After the Minister of Justice's statements, it opens up up to six lines. Up to one of the 5 minute inserts of each group, a row of up to six lines is allowed. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e168	On July 22, Norway put on a very hard test. Few countries in peacetime have been subjected to more cruel acts of terrorism. Today, two months later, we can state that Norwegian democracy was the test. The Norwegian people answered immediately and unisonously. Massive evil was met with overwhelming care. The people wanted to call about the community, openness and tolerance. Since then, life is gradually normalized. Every day has returned, not the same everyday life as before July 22. Norway is never going to be exactly the same. Each one of us is marked. We carry scars after the black Friday: Those who lost one of their loved ones, all who were wounded, the rescue teams – all of us. No one has moved on unimpaired. July 22 becomes a ballast that characterizes us: what we say, what we do – our attitudes. Therefore, Norway will be permanently affected by the attack. 22 July has already been a heavy yearning for the growth of the nation. Several year rings come as we draw new lessons. Let me give you two examples. The attacks were politically motivated and directed at the Youth Movement of the Workers Party (AUF) and the Government Quartet. But the Norwegian people quickly perceived it as an attack on the basic Norwegian values and the broad Norwegian community. It's an experience that can't be erased. Secondly, the society after 22 July was watching the rest of the world and it's going to overdo the image of us. These are two examples of Norway not becoming the same. The examples also illustrate that it has grown something valuable out of the way we met the terror. It'll inspire us in our continuation. Little by little, we must strengthen democracy, maintain transparency and create security. We have to go on, but never forget. Today, I want to thank the Stortinget. The political leaders showed the ability and willingness to stand together when the nation needed unity. It also appeared when the 22nd July Commission was appointed. The Commission was appointed by the Government in close contact with the Storting and in line with the announcement by an overall political Norway only five days after the announcement. Let me again stress that we are not waiting to make the necessary improvements until the Commission's work is done. We have from one day on announced that what needs to be improved in the past will be improved in the past. We've followed that up, and we'll follow that up. Among other things, we have strengthened the Oslo Police and helicopter preparedness, and the police emergency team will receive increased appropriations in the budget presented to the Stortinge on Thursday. In the budget, as we put forward on Thursday, we will also strengthen the police security service, the PST. The Minister of Justice will say more about this and other measures later in the debate. Since July 22nd, different media have been working systematically to check the preparedness of the front edge of the terrorist attack, the way the authorities handled the first critical hours, and our ability to draw lessons in retrospect. I'm glad. It is part of an open democracy that the media reveal critical conditions. Another part of democracy is that responsible politicians do not draw far-reaching and blatant conclusions until all the facts are on the table before we see the whole context. Both are equally important. But the balance sheet can be demanding. Refusal to comment may be construed as a discharge. So let me put on a wide pen: The responsibility is mine – for the police, the helicopters, the hospitals and the defense. I take responsibility – for what worked and for what needs to be improved. I am humble that not everything worked as well as it should in the critical hours of July 22. That's why we're going to learn, and we're going to change to increase security. I understand that many are impatient, but again: I warn against drawing the final conclusions before we see the whole picture. Then, in return, we're going to act resolutely, as we've already done with helicopter standby and the police. We're going to learn from July 22nd. We're going to use learning to strengthen our ability to face future crises. I am pleased that 22 July is being seriously debated and engaged. It is an expression that the Norwegian people have lived up to the promise that the answer to violence is more democracy and more transparency. It's about having the senses open to all the signs of extremism — meeting hateful comments with arguments. This is how we can all help to capture those who are at risk of crossing the border from extreme opinions to extreme actions. The more people who have eyes and ears open, the greater the chance that society can intervene at an early stage. Since 22 July, with different approaches, questions have been asked about whether the defence could be more effectively and more quickly supported by the police. It's an important debate, because the terror as a phenomenon challenges our clear perception of what the police are going to do, and what the defence mission is. Most terrorist attacks will be gross criminal acts, and therefore the task of the police to handle. All defence resources may be made available to the police upon request. A little bit simplified, we base our division of tasks on the fact that the police are to prevent crime, while the defense is to prevent war. There's no reason to rock. The boundary is essentially important and operationally correct. At the same time, we have to deal with the fact that terrorism is challenging such a logic. Terror is in its doing a criminal act against values and against people, but terror is also a form of war. Anyone who saw the government quarter after July 22 was rightly associated with a war scene, and the massacre on Ut Island caused death and damage we only associate with acts of war. This is how we know the face of terror also from other parts of the world. How, and to what extent, can we use the material, competence and personnel of defence in the fight against terrorism without crossing borders that we do not want to cross? The defence’s contribution to civil protection shall not govern the development of the defence’s structure and capacity. However, it is important that the defence resources are set up and organised in order to provide the best possible assistance when a new crisis arises. For example, the Defense now establishes a standby with two of their Bell helicopters at the Rygge Air Station. These can provide support to the police throughout the country. This involves a significantly strengthened preparedness. In addition, we will clarify the guidelines for police access to rescue helicopters. The aim is to facilitate the use of these helicopters by the police in emergency situations. In addition, we have established a joint analysis unit between the Police Security Service and the Defence Intelligence Service. This cooperation between the E-service and the PST will be reinforced. It is also important to see the capacity of police and defence outside the capital area in the context. The Government will present a new comprehensive Communication on Social Security and the Long-term Plan for Defence in spring 2012. I warn today that the defence's assistance to civil society in acute crisis situations will be an important theme of these plans. Three years after Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, the international economy is once again in troubled waters. The situation is very serious. In 2008, it was about saving the banks. Now it's about saving land. In 2008, financial markets almost ceased to function. A whole world was hit. In Norway, we were able to mitigate the fall because we met the crisis with massive action, with stable management and with massive measures. The right hand parts said first that we did too much. Then they said we were doing too little too late. But the measures came in time, and they were properly dosed. The problem now is that many countries are trapped in a dangerous economic trap. They have high unemployment, and at the same time they have low economic growth. Then they should have spent more money. But they can't because they have too much debt. The way out of the crisis cannot only go through public savings. Banks and other individuals must take their share of the responsibility. They are responsible for assessing risks when they lend money. It may not be that the private take the gains when it goes well and that the community covers the losses when things go bad. What are the lessons and the political implications for Norway? I'd say there are four things in particular: Firstly, we must keep the economy in order. The government will never gamble with the jobs in industry, in travel life, in the marine sector, because work for everyone is our job number one. That's why we have to keep the use of money when the economy, the interest rate and the interest rate require it. Secondly, we should be proud of the Norwegian model that has proved to be good – including through crises. We have a high level of professional participation, good welfare arrangements, a broad tax base and a reasonable level of taxation. And we have good cooperation with the social partners. It makes us better equipped to handle difficult times. Thirdly, we who want strong public welfare systems must be drivers of the renewal and conversion of the public sector. Therefore, the government is renewing and transforming the public sector: the pension reform, the disability, the conversion of cash support, the Cooperation reform. These are heavy and demanding changes, but they are absolutely necessary to maintain the safe common solutions. Fourth, the international debt crisis involves the final farewell to irresponsible fiscal policies on the right. Some countries have believed that it is possible to have welfare services at the level of the Nordic countries and at the level of the US. I can't. It's clearly shown us in the last months and years. Using tens of billions of dollars on lower taxes limits our ability to finance well-being. Such cuts are irresponsible and unsocial. Proper use of public money enables us to spend more money in areas we want to strengthen. Knowledge and education are a priority area. A good school for everyone is a support bar in a good society. It is gratifying that Norwegian students are now above the OECD average in reading and only behind Finland in the Nordic region. In mathematics, there is considerable progress, and in nature, Norway is among the countries that have made the most progress since 2006. These are results that inspire us to invest even more in strengthening teacher training, adapting education both for those who are struggling, and for those who need greater challenges, and in cleaning up school buildings and building new ones. We don't just have to maintain well-being, we have to improve it. We're going to make the school better and expand the care for the elderly. We need to focus on research as a contribution to knowledge and new jobs. We're going to build roads and railways and a lot more. We are going to follow this up in the state budget that comes on Thursday. There is broad consensus on key issues in Norwegian policy. We're gonna be happy for that. It creates predictability and stability in the governance of the country. It is a task of an overall political Norway to maintain this consensus. At the same time, we are going to have an honest political debate on what separates. It clears up the options and gives the voters real choices – which is a clear advantage for a living government. I am therefore pleased that the opposition is now taking the view that they will clarify what their government options are before the 2013 elections. Today's government parties have shown for six years that we are credible government partners. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre decided well before the 2005 elections our common position on important issues where there was initially disagreement between the parties: NATO, EEA, EU, tax level and oil money use. We did it out of respect for the voters and because it was important to Norway. Similarly, I hope that the opposition parties in good time before the 2013 elections will clarify their common position on important issues where they disagree. No one expects a fully common government platform, but in some areas where they disagree on important road choices for the country, it is important for the voters and for the country to know what they together are able to believe about the use of oil money, the very foundations of economic policy, about fiscal policy, where there are tens of billions of dollars between the parties, and whether we are going to take the big climate turmoil seriously. At the beginning of this session, let's not forget the world's great challenges. Combating poverty is the first and largest of the UN's Millennium Goals. Recently, we received eye-catching good news. Last year, 600 000 fewer children died and 70 000 fewer mothers died. To put it another way: 600,000 more children were given their own lives, and 70,000 more women experienced the wonders of life, to know the warmth of their newborn child. A stronger expression of the world's future is scarce. I am pleased that Norway is actively contributing – not least through its efforts to vaccinate the world’s children – by supporting the International Vaccine Fund, a fund managed by Dagfinn Højbrätten in a solid and secure way. The 2008 financial crisis called for accountability and unifying political solutions. July 22nd, it did very much. New economic turmoil must be met with similar firmness. The size has taken responsibility before. I'm sure it will happen again. I look forward to constructive cooperation with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e265	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e268	We can all agree on the need to pursue a responsible economic policy, but I think we may disagree on the instruments. It is not that the Prime Minister's definition of a responsible level of taxation is the only one. But I understand the need when he and his allies are engaged in making any proposal for tax breaks as irresponsible tax policies. Then my question is to the Prime Minister, when he now says as he says in today's throne debate: does he also mean that the LO leader is irresponsible? I have registered that today the LO leader is calling for something to be done with the strange wealth tax for reasons of the competitiveness of the country's businesses. Once the Progress Party has proposed this innumerable times, we have heard that it is about giving tax credits to the richest. We have heard a fairly simple rhetoric on this question. Does the Prime Minister think Roar Flåthen is simple in his rhetoric? Does the Prime Minister think that Flöthen has not understood the importance of the property tax to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e275	What is fundamentally irresponsible is over time to spend more money than you have. Many countries in Europe have done so over many years, and that is when things are going wrong. If expenditure is higher than revenue, expenditure can either be reduced — that means significant cuts in important areas — or increased revenue. My point is that many countries that have driven with large tax credits now see that they have too much deficit and are forced to increase taxes. Now they use the increased tax revenue to pay interest and deductions on debts they earned in the period they had too low taxes. So that taxes have something to do with debt, I'm standing by. So it's irresponsible to spend a lot of money on other things. In fact, in terms of taxes on wealth, this government has done a good deal of things about taxes on wealth. We have created a substantially fairer wealth tax system. 500,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth now than under the previous government. We're open to further fair and good conversions, but we're opposed to removing the property tax, and I don't think the LO leader means it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e282	President. To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e287	There is no obvious misunderstanding at this stage of the debate. Then we would never get done. The next representative is Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e292	Norway has recently suffered a defeat in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. Despite the fact that a woman has committed criminal offences and has been illegally in Norway for 15 years, we cannot expel her because she has the right to care for children. This will have an impact on Norwegian legislation. My challenge to the Prime Minister is simply whether – despite the fact that there is a dissertation in Strasbourg on this decision – this is a good thing to do without going any further. Moreover, it is a little special, all the time you are so proud of your return programmes, that it is possible to find yourself illegally in Norway for 15 years without being returned. Is it symptomatic of the return policy pursued by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e299	I think it's okay that we live in a legal society where the state must also comply with the laws and respect that sometimes one is judged. Everything else would be very clear. What happens quite often is that the state is in a legal case with another person. Sometimes we win, and then I like it, and sometimes we lose. Then, of course, I am not so happy, but I respect the judgment, because I believe it is essential that the State also submits to laws and judgments in Norwegian courts and international courts. We lost one thing in Strasbourg. Of course, we respect that judgment. Whether it should be relevant to Norwegian legislation – well, we will get back to that. That's a completely different question. The crucial thing is that we have not been able to make a concrete point of our view. In the case of return, this government has succeeded very well. The number of forced returns has increased sharply, and now the number of voluntary returns has also increased sharply. That means that we can better deal with those who are actually going to stay here, who need protection, and who need integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e306	The next replicator is Erna Solberg, who will be given two lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e310	I agree with the Prime Minister that the challenge in Greece is to balance income and expenditure, and that it is about both taxation and cutting expenditure. However, the challenge in Norway is different. The future challenge for creating security around the welfare of our society is to secure us through knowledge and competitiveness. The Norwegian challenge for the future is to do the right things today that make our competitiveness stand. That's where the LO leader has obviously had some aha experiences, when, on his travels around the country, he has met the businesses that create the jobs of this society. These companies have been clear and clear about one thing: the property tax is currently a competitive weakening for Norwegian society. It helps to make driving more difficult, and it weakens the basis. Why won't the Prime Minister listen to the LO leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e315	I have had many good conversations with LO leaders over the years. Sometimes I listen, sometimes I don't listen as well, and I think that's an advantage for everyone. Having said that, I do not feel that the LO manager is going in to remove the property tax. He goes in for a discussion and a review. Well, we've had a review. We have made adjustments, and we can also make adjustments in the future. But we're not going in to remove a tax of about 14 billion. kr. First of all, a lot of money is going to go away, and second, it's going to be 60 pst. Of the money that will go to the 1 pst. the richest people in Norway, and it is neither particularly socially nor particularly responsible. As far as competitiveness is concerned, if we create new jobs, the best goal is to achieve competitiveness in the Norwegian economy. Nearly 300,000 new jobs have been created since this government took over – ten times as many as under the previous government. Nearly two thirds of the new jobs have come into business, so we create values. We create jobs, not least in the private sector, and many more now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e322	The Prime Minister stands for a short-term economic policy that creates good policies in the short term, but bad policies in the long term. What one does not see is that since 2005, productivity development in Norway has not been better than in our neighbouring countries – as it has been in the past – but actually on the same line as or worse than in our neighbouring countries. So in terms of hourly wage and competitiveness parameters around it, we have seen higher growth in Norway than in other countries. We know that in the long run it's only if we can be more productive, that we can also take out higher wages and ensure the well-being of Norway, and then we have to go through the things that contribute to better competitiveness. And if that's how the Prime Minister thinks everything is perfect with the property tax because he's recently gone through it and won't listen to the LO manager, yes, then I have to ask the question: Does the Prime Minister think it's reasonable that a company that had an operating deficit of 4.8 million. kr last year, but must take out 18 million. kr to pay dividend taxes – to pay the property tax again? That is the system the Prime Minister defends. Is that reasonable? The leader of the LO obviously thinks no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e329	I believe it is reasonable that those who have much contribute more than those who have little. And I mean, removing a property tax of about 14 billion. kr, where 60 pst. Of the reliefs, one percent in Norway, which has the most, is unreasonable. Then I have not said that adjustments/changes in the property tax scheme are wrong. That is why we have already implemented changes to the asset tax regime and can do so in the future. We have e.g. ensure that 500000 fewer taxpayers pay property taxes now than when the Right joined the Government. This applies not least to pensioners and others with small assets. It's more fair, it's more social, and it's responsible. New changes in line with that may well be that we're going to do, but to remove 14 billion. So the tax that the rich pay is neither social nor reasonable. With regard to competitiveness, there is only one objective of competitiveness, and that is how the Norwegian economy develops. When we have significantly stronger growth in the private sector, in private enterprises, now that we had under the previous government, at least that is an indication that we are also doing quite well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e338	I want to continue the dialog if Lo Leader Roar Fleathen has or has not seen the light. For Roar Flåthen has not read the Right Party program or the Party program of the Advance Party when he makes his proposal, but he has seen in the Party program of the Christian People's Party – and there is a lot of sense! He simply wants to remove the taxes on wealth on working capital. There is something that a social democratic government in Sweden has just chosen to do. It's a proposal that the NHO supports, that the Fisker Team supports, and the government chooses to do this, removing not all of the taxes on wealth, but just what is involved in securing jobs. And it must be attractive for the Prime Minister to come forward with a proposal that Per Olaf Lundtigen will also make 100 pst. [[Laughter]] Back!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e343	I have good conversations both with LO's leader and with Per Olaf Lundtegen. But I've chosen to live this way in life that I don't always do what the two say. And I think – as I said – that is an advantage, at least for the country! [[Laughter]] Then we want to have dialogue and discussions with many, and we listen. We have therefore made significant adjustments to the taxes on wealth. It is a little strange to hear people who put in government as 500,000 more property taxes paid, and not least many pensioners paid a lot of property taxes with low wealth and low income. We've done something about that, and I'm concerned that we can do other things, adjust and create more fair and fair wealth taxes. But cutting with many billions of dollars without finding a deposit, I don't think it's reasonable. Then we will continue to have dialogue with all the wise people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e350	I don't think Roar Flåthen's starting point is that you should give more money to the 1 pst. The richest, but he sees that there are people who create jobs, which actually creates growth in a society. There are many indicators of that. There are many indicators that the economy around the world is now faltering. Norway has a unique opportunity to use this opportunity, because we have a room for action to make some major priorities and actually focus on something that allows us to live on something in the future. It's not just about the jobs that were created yesterday, it's about the jobs that are to be created in 10 years, in 20 years. Much of this lies in research, much of it lies in the way we set up our society to build these jobs, to build the future industries we're going to live on. The last state budget presented the worst research budget in ten years. This government began with a cutting of rest. If we are to be able to cope with the economic crisis in which we see that the world is now up – and we have an opportunity, and we actually have a space for action in order to do the grips for the future – it does not benefit that the Prime Minister boasts of what happened last year, then he must bet on what is future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e357	On Thursday, I'm going to brag about what's going on next year, because then we're going to put forward the state budget for next year, and then it's very much -- what I'm going to say -- to be proud of, not only bet on individual areas, but also on our ability to get the whole thing up, so that we can take responsibility for interest, for interest rates, for those with housing debts, and for those who are engaged in industrial jobs. We need to invest, and we need to invest in the future. The most important thing we do to invest in the future is to invest in people. We do that to make sure that people have a job. Nothing destroys as much for the future as many people go without a job and lose competence and working ability. We're investing in knowledge and school, so we're investing more in research now than we've done before, under previous governments. We're going to keep investing in the future, but then maybe the key is to make sure that we avoid the mistakes that many other countries have made, that's to set up the economy so that millions go unemployed. That's not a single problem. Norway is not sure that we too can be hit by increasing unemployment, as many of our neighbouring countries have become.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e364	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e367	The attack on Norway on 22 July did something to all of us. The Norwegian people replied to allying across all the other existing dividing lines. It did good to be part of it. But now is the time to address the challenges this nation faces in terms of vulnerability, security and preparedness. When the July 22 Commission was set up, the Progress Party warned against the Commission becoming a sleep cushion or a government tool to constantly push the unpleasant questions ahead and not answer them. Unfortunately, we have seen many examples of this, both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister of Justice. There are many questions that require good answers, and many of those answers we do not have to wait for the Commission's work to give. So the challenges for the Norwegian police were well known before the acts of terrorism. We then knew that the police had scarce resources, and we knew that there were many tasks they did not see able to solve. It was already then that cases were closed because the police did not have the resources to investigate them. It was perceived as very uncomfortable for all the thousands of people out in the Norwegian community who were daily affected by everyday crime. It's happening to a greater extent now. We are now in a situation where more and more people experience that everyday crime is increasing, precisely because there have been signals that the police unfortunately do not have the resources to address other tasks. There are no signals we can continue to send out, because it creates the impression that it is currently free from criminal acts in Norway. That's an idea we have to stop. Then it's about taking many of these issues seriously and showing that we're able to donate sufficient resources to the police, so they can solve their problems. One of the issues that has been apparent over the past few weeks is the situation of the police security service. It's as undecided now as it was before. This will know as little about the actual conditions of PST now as before. For this reason, the Progress Party will present today a proposal for an independent assessment of the situation in the PST both before, during and after the terrorist action. So we can no longer continue to have an unexplained situation, where there are only a few people who know what is the actual situation regarding the police security service. These are questions that at least the Progress Party believes it is natural to clarify – the sooner, the better. So in our opinion, there is no reason to wait for the conclusions of the 22nd July Commission in this respect. In connection with the National Governing Council of the Workers Party, the Prime Minister announced a tight budget for 2012. Some leaks have occurred. The common feature of all these leaks is that, once again, new burdens should be passed on to employees, new burdens on individuals who already perceive that they pay more than enough to the Norwegian Treasury. It is not the responsibility of economic policy to introduce new non-social tax increases. But on Thursday we're told what are the actual conditions, so I'm not going to wonder too much about leakages. Despite the fact that we all agree that it is important to conduct a responsible economic policy, the answer here is not that all good solutions must be done through and under the control of the Norwegian State. On the contrary, individuals, businesses, organisations and the family are far more able to handle tasks much more reasonably, much more efficiently and much more quickly than the State can do on their behalf. But then it's about having a little trust. Then it's not about having too long suction tubes in other people's wallets. It's going to be the reality, unfortunately. Every time you hear a social democrat talk about a responsible economic policy, it's not about cleaning up your own bed. It is not about streamlining the state’s ever-increasing expenditure. No, it's about drawing more and more of the values that individuals in this society create. That is not a good solution for the future. That's why it's important when Roar Flåthen says what he says in today's business today. For this reason, the Progress Party allows itself to promote that proposal, entirely worded, namely to ask the government to investigate all the negative consequences of the property tax for Norwegian ownership, Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs, and to return to the Stortinget with it in the context of revision. This debate has prevented the Workers' Party and the other government parties from taking part. They have made it a debate on the 1 pst. the richest part of the population, despite the fact that the Prime Minister knows better. He knows very well what this is all about, namely a strange tax on Norwegian value creation. It does not last at a time when our businesses are under increasing pressure to survive. Then we have to be responsible enough to remove the framework conditions that create differences. Then we have to remove the strange wealth tax. We need to increase investment in infrastructure, an infrastructure that is not least one of the largest hemshoes and the largest expense item for ever more companies located around the district of Norway. So I noticed that the Prime Minister said that if you have too much debt, you can't spend money. I fully agree with that. But Norway is also in a strange situation. So we're in the situation that we have more money than we really know how to spend. Then it is time to use the golden opportunity this nation has to invest in those areas that can make Norwegian competitiveness better, put our businesses in a better position than they would otherwise have, and remove the strange obstacles to competitiveness and value creation. The debate on the use of oil money in the future should be much more concerned. That's where the big difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party is. We agree on the need for a responsible economic policy. The Labour Party's answer to this is that the state should be the answer for everyone, whether you want it or not, while the Progress Party's answer to this is a greater belief in the individual's ability, will and ability to create values in Norwegian society. On the part of the government, the Treaty of Rome stated that the Norwegian immigration and asylum policy would, in future, be in line with what the government called ‘practice in other comparable countries’. What we have not received is which countries the government believes are comparable. In fact, it is very important for Norwegian asylum and immigration policies which country you choose to follow. But what is alarming – and Per-Willy Amundsen tried to ask the Prime Minister for the change of line – is that the government has already liberalised asylum policy by accepting the judgment it was referred to, from Strasbourg. So it's about the government, regardless of whether you break Norwegian law many times, and you get sent out of the country and come back with new identity papers that don't harmonize with the ones you had with the last time you came in, sending a signal that just you're going to be chlorinated in Norwegian society long enough – even if it's illegal – you're finally allowed to stay. It's not a policy the Progress Party joins. It is a wrong signal to send out to the outside world. As a result, even more people will seek their way to Norway, under unfair conditions. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the government should seriously consider an appeal against this judgment. It was not a unanimous judgment. If you are serious about tightening up, as the Prime Minister called it, you must have a link in the methods and instruments. What would have been good was for the government to tighten up the procedure, so that people who ask for an answer as to whether they can stay in Norway or not get it — and as soon as possible to clarify their future, whether it should be in Norway or be a good return. Today's practice, where you let this scour and go for months and years, is obviously inhumane to them, and directly irresponsible, because it sends a signal that you're clinging fast enough long enough, and it's going to take care of it anyway. It has to stop. That signal effect should be conscious of the government. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that this judgment should also be appealed against. I take this up with me the proposals from the Progress Party, which I believe are being reorganised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e393	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e399	Siv Jensen has repeatedly stated in this debate that all the political parties agree to conduct a responsible economic policy. I guess that's not exactly true. In any case, the Right People have characterised the Economic Policy of the Advance Party as casino policy. Outside Europe, we see that countries need to implement a high level of welfare while at the same time having a high level of unemployment because they are underfunded. I did not hear the director of the biggest opposition party in Storting spending time on it in his post. So I ask you, hasn't that made any sense? Will the Progress Party continue to hold on to its use of oil money as a prerequisite for any government cooperation on the right-hand side?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e406	With regard to serious economic developments in Europe, it is complex. So the challenges in Greece are slightly different from those in Italy and Spain. The challenges they face in common are that they create considerable unrest, create unemployment, and create financial problems for the countries concerned. But the common denominator of these countries is not primarily about an irresponsible low level of taxation. It is about a lack of balance in government budgets in relation to the income and expenditure side over time. There, as I also said in my post, Norway is in a completely different situation. I have not heard a single batch in this room order to spend oil money over time to keep the operating costs going. What the Progress Party has called for, and which we will repeat to the tedious, so that perhaps the Workers' Party also discovers how sensible it is, is about investing something more of our common wealth in areas and tasks that Norway will serve over time. We will continue to make proposals on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e411	What I think both Italy, Greece and a number of other countries in Europe have in common is that they feel that it is worse to face an economic crisis with low incomes and debt than the situation we have in Norway, where we can go into a similar situation with high incomes and money on book. I record that the Progress Party will not take responsibility for the revenue. Let me follow up Political Quarter this morning, where the Central Party challenged the bourgeois parties on the construction project in relation to government options on the right. Siv Jensen then replied that you are working slowly, but surely. I want to say that there's one thing that's safe, and that's that it's going slowly. That is why I would like to ask Siv Jensen: does she still have Prime Minister ambitions? Does she insist that the Progress Party will not support a government they are not part of? Or is she now open to go back to – what do we say – the Bondevik II situation, where the Progress Party is a guarantor and a supporting party in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e418	I'm registering a strangely touching concern from Helga Pedersen for the relationship between the bourgeois parties. I think she can take it easy, and rather use her energy to maintain peace between the three parties that sit in government now. There are two years to the next big shot, and we can start discussing those questions as it approaches. But I cannot leave the claim that the Progress Party does not take responsibility for the income side, just hanging in the loose air. It's wrong -- it's rather the opposite. One of the most important aspects of a country's economy is its focus on value creation. Then you have to focus on how to create more economic growth, and so here goes the big dividing line between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. The Progress Party has a basic trust in the creative power of the Norwegian people, in all the small businesses of the country, with all those who stand up every day in the morning to get their businesses to go around. That's why we want to make their everyday life easier by removing some of the strange rules. I had hoped that the Workers' Party would be willing to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e425	In case Siv Jensen actually believed it: it wasn't enough care Helga Pedersen tried to show. But Siv Jensen did not answer the question – she answered a very different question. So I just repeat it: does it state that the Progress Party will only support a government in which the party participates, i.e. sit in itself? So the representative, Siv Jensen, started saying that July 22nd was doing something to all of us. I think that's right. Among other things, many have said that maybe one should think about what tone one has in the debate and what one says. I wonder: what did 22 July with the Progress Party view its own role and its own tone in the debate? If e.g. A representative in this room in the future would say that multiculture is idiotic in the long term, or that there is no dedicated Muslim who takes a distance from Sharia, will Siv Jensen take away from such statements in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e432	The immigration and asylum policies of the Progress Party are more important now than ever. It is firm, and we are going to spend a lot of time and energy promoting the proposals we think are right and necessary to get Norwegian immigration policy on a better footing. What we've registered under the red-green government is very much talk, but very little action. A sample has been set up under the direction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs — many interesting proposals, but none of them have been put into practice. It's been the reality of the Red-Green government, and I'll warn you about that. There is every reason to tighten up in this area, so that we have control of who enters Norway. Then it's just as much about how we integrate those who have been legally resident in Norway. Here, too, we have a significant challenge. I think maybe Burd Vegar Solhjell should be a little more concerned with it than attacking the Advance Party on a false basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e441	First, I would like to congratulate the representative Jensen on having been head of opposition for six years. Leave it six new ones! I think all the representatives here notice one thing, that neither on the question from Helga Pedersen nor on the question from Bård Vegar Solhjell chose the representative Jensen to answer in relation to future government options. It's done pretty well after you've been head of opposition for six years, that you haven't been able to coordinate a little bit better. That is why I will only ask two questions, which I hope the representative Jensen will take the time to answer. Question no. 1: Is it still the case that, after the poor election, the Progress Party premises that the Advance Party will be part of a new government if the opposition parties come into government? - God forbid! Question no. 2: Who will be Prime Minister candidate – is it the representative of Solberg or the representative of Jensen, or another future person?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e452	I'll try to answer these questions. Question 1: The strategy of the Progress Party is firm. It hasn't changed, and if it changes, I'll see to it that Battle violence Vedum gets it done in good time. To question 2: The exact same answer. The strategy of the Progress Party is firm, and if it changes, the Battle Violence Vedum will get along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e461	It's possible I chain the President to ask the same question every year. It is possible that I chain the representative Siv Jensen to ask the same question every year. But that is a very important question: does the representative Jensen believe that there are man-made climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e466	I think everyone can see that we have climate change both in Norway and in the rest of the world. So the question is whether they're created by humans, or whether they're a natural part of the variations we're experiencing. That's why the learned are fighting. The Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals in this Chamber over several years that we believe will be a good contribution both to the climate and the environment, but what I am registering is that the current government, which believes that this is the most important challenge facing the world, has still not progressed a single step in relation to what they think is the most important fight. So I might recommend Trine Skei Grande to point the powder at those who are responsible for today's climate policy, instead of letting me go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e471	I'm sure it'll come too!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e477	I've been here at Stortinget for only two years, but in the last two years it's still happened that there are questions that aren't entirely answered in a reply. But I can never remember that there have been as many questions that have not been answered in the end as in this round – there is simply no thing that is being answered clearly. So let me just take one more, so we get it very clearly. "The strategy of the party is firm," says Siv Jensen. Does it mean that the Progress Party will only support a government that is itself in? Can we confirm that this is the case, that the Progress Party will only support a government in which it is itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e482	I now understand that Bård Vegar Solhjell has been a bit heavy for it, because this strategy has been repeated many times over many years. But I will repeat that once again: the strategy of the Progress Party, which is firm, is that we want all four bourgeois parties to sit down to negotiate a possible basis for a new majority government in Norway after the elections – if we were to win it, and that is essentially what is the most important thing now. It's about convincing the most successful voters in this country that eight years with a red-green government will be more than enough. So that's our strategy. In addition, we have said that it is unnatural for the Progress Party to support a government we ourselves are not part of. It's firm, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e490	I will be allowed to go back to the Prime Minister’s opening words – thank you on behalf of the entire political Norway for the way it reacted after July 22nd, but I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and all the other executives who, in the week after July 22nd, from day one – from the first hour – provided leadership and cohesion, inclusion and for the other country point out that our response was worthy, it was proper, and it was implemented. It is clear that such an experience for a country is a pitiful historical experience. It is an experience of a threat where one has given an answer and a response on cohesion that has been fantastic, and which it is important that we take care of in our society in the future – not by being able to disagree politically on matters, but by actually taking care of the framework around, the propriety of the political debate and respect for each other’s political views, that we may have some of the same objectives for society and for welfare, but not that we necessarily agree on the means or the way there. Let me also say that we supported the 22nd July Commission and still believe that it has an important and great responsibility to monitor the processing, the response below and what has happened subsequently on 22 July. But that does not mean that there are no themes and issues related to this that deserve more political attention. From our side, there has been no lack of opportunity to go out and criticise the government for single-page preparedness. We have not done so because we thought it was wrong, and it is not right to point to liability. But there are some political questions that I now expect a slightly different response from the government regarding the PST and the police than what we have received in the past. Firstly, before Christmas last year, I asked the Prime Minister if we could have an independent review of the resource and capacity situation of the PST that could be handed over to the Stortinget in an appropriate form with secret stamping – The Stortinget can deal with this – that the Stortinget gets information about how the capacity and the resource situation actually is, from an independent body, not just through the budget line-up to the government. The reason for that was the information we got about the lack of scanning capacity and a lot of anxiety that came from the PST itself for what they had of resources. I now expect another response from the government in July 22nd. The size must be better informed. We should be able to do this together, not as a party policy. The second is that the question of police helicopters is not new. We have been doing that for quite many years. The question of the budgetary situation of the police and what you actually get when the government boasts of increased appropriations should also be given a more dignified form than the usual budgetary difficulties we have. That is why we are going to propose a new police study that goes through both capacity needs in terms of staffing and technical issues in the years to come, so that we have a better basis to say that we can solve all the tasks the police are assigned to, instead of an unworthy debate between the police and the Minister of Justice and the opposition and the Minister of Justice. Also in the light of the 22nd of July I think that is something we should be able to cooperate on, and that the government must be able to admit and get to. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that one of the major challenges facing us is the economic uncertainty, which does not necessarily come from Norway internally. But there's also something we're going to notice: the uncertainty, and how powerful the international economy is going to be in the future. What response we should have to external impulses, or lack of impulses, to the economy, will, of course, be inequalities in economic policy as well. But I think it's important to remember that the long-term competitiveness of a country is that we always take care of the main actions, which ensure that we have competitiveness, that we have knowledge capital, and that we have the opportunity to create security through safe jobs, and that security is created today by focusing on knowledge and competitiveness. It is then important to look at the structural measures that need to be taken in order to achieve this in the future. It is not just a matter of operating responsible economic policies in macro-sized terms, but of pursuing responsible micro-economic policies, in the form of ensuring that the way we build our economy in the future requires more jobs, ensuring that Norwegian companies become more competitive, making us more innovative and innovative. Because I actually think that everyone in this room has the goal that Velferds-Norway should be maintained. But Velferds-Norway is based on one thing: our economy's ability to carry it. Safe jobs are about the ability of each enterprise to bear the cost level through high productivity, innovation and knowledge. That's why it's important to look at what action we have to take in the future. It started the period that has passed since 2005, with what Arne Strand in the Newspaper said that this government came to the deck table. The previous government did some bad and difficult structural grips. We lowered the tax burden. Now it's almost elevated to a religion that it's important to rule after the 2004 tax pressure. Well, that's the tax pressure from Per-Cristian Foss and Right at that point, counter-argumented from the left-hand side at that point in time. The second important structural approach was for the first time to bring interest rates down on European average, which did not force the krone price into such high orbits, and we are entering a bit of the same challenge with respect to the krone price, as we had at the beginning of the last decade. Then we were helped by perhaps the largest structural reform that has taken place in Europe, namely the enlargement of the EU, the four freedoms, which have given us a movement in the labour market that Norway has never had before, by helping so many to come to Norway and build well-being in the future. We might have to pick up the new structural grips from the inside and not expect traction from the outside. Firstly, it is probably necessary to take on board what the government obviously does not take on board, namely that Norway falls on all barometers that measure competitiveness and innovation. We have fallen because other countries have done better. We know, of course, that at the moment when markets are getting tighter, competitive power is even more important. From 2005 to 2008, the international economy went for full capacity. Then the expensive producers also had a market place. Now, price and quality are going to be more important. Then we have to make sure that the quality is good, because our price will never be as competitive. Then it's innovation and innovation that's important. It is then important to look at what elements in Norway make our level of costs higher than what is just a question of wages. One of them is you, among others. what we have discussed in the change of line after the Prime Minister's posts, namely the property tax. The property tax is a special Norse tax on Norwegian ownership. That means that when you have a Norwegian owner, you have to be even more productive and earn more in that company to be as profitable as the neighboring workplace, owned by an Italian or a Chinese person, for that matter. Removing the property tax is, in my opinion, a way of strengthening the Norwegian model, because the Norwegian model is not just about the Prime Minister sitting and talking with the LO leader on top – now he is listening a little bit to him today, in my opinion. It is a matter of proximity between the owner and the employees. It is a society in which small businesses are run in such a way that the owner sits on the same sports board as the employees, contributes sponsoring funds, trades in the same local store and talks to his employees over the freezer counter. It is also part of the Norwegian model, and it is part of the government's failure by tightening up and tightening the tax on property and ownership in Norwegian companies. For the answer is, as the answer was from a Haugesund company recently, that sons and daughters must move out of the country if they are still to own the family business, because their business does not tolerate the cost pressure. They're going through a deficit, and in order to pay the property tax, they're going to have to pay more. But knowledge is equally important. Knowledge efforts must therefore be protected in future budgets. It is the most important structural policy for the future: that each of us, whether we work in industry as industrial workers, or whether we work in academia, or even as politicians, become more knowledgeable and competent. There is most of the competitiveness in the future, and here lies the distinctions of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e518	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e521	I have noticed that the Right Leader speaks very little about the lines of Norwegian policy. On the contrary, she speaks quite consistently about the parts of the Right Policy that there is consensus in Norwegian policy as such. No one disagrees with the relationship between creating and sharing, and business is very important because it creates the income we're going to distribute next time. Where the Right differs from the Red-Green parties and the Centres, Erna Solberg speaks very little about his own policy. With the exception of the property tax, we almost never hear the Right Leader talk about tax cuts and about private schools. I wonder what's the reason for that. Has Erna Solberg canceled these parts of her party program, or has she realized that this does not affect the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e528	The main distinctions in Norwegian policy are based on the will to invest in knowledge and competence. The left-hand side tries to say that tax relief and privatisation are the big differences. It's a distinction that we want to use all the good forces, that we think we can bring down the health cows in Norway faster. We don't think it's necessary for people to stand in an operating queue for a long time when they could be in work and contribute to financing our welfare society instead of being passive and tidy about it. But it's up to the government today to ignore, because they don't want to use the freedom of choice so that you can also choose private offers. But the dividing lines in e.g. school policy is larger than the representative Helga Pedersen is trying to say now. At least it was like that in the municipal election campaign. In the municipal election campaign, the government’s Minister of Education claimed that one of the major divisions, among others: was that we wanted to test more. Yes, we believe that this is important, for example. to have a transition test in Norwegian school. Then I registered that it was obviously an SV position that it was wrong, because the Workers' Party agreed with us. I just have to say, I think the divorces are more. One of the main challenges for the Workers' Party is that some of those divisions go straight through the Workers' Party. Many of your voters have seen it. Therefore, they now choose to vote for us rather than for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e535	Is it true that the representative Pedersen wants two lines? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e538	That's perfectly correct. I notice that the Right Leader continues to talk about the ambitions of the welfare state, but still will not discuss how to obtain income. There is still one of the main lines of Norwegian policy. So I also noticed that the right-hand manager drew out private solutions. In Bergen, the Right has been running for several years, and you have had every opportunity to organise care for the elderly just as you want. For the Right-Handling Officer, it has been a goal that users of home help services should be able to choose between different companies. Last week, Bergen's magazine could tell about the wife of Anton Svanevik, who has had 68 caregivers in her home within four and a half months. Does the Right Leader think that the Right Policy has worked well in Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e549	I must honestly be allowed to say that, after having made an article where the main part is about how we will finance welfare in the future, I am a little surprised that the representative of the Workers' Party has not listened any more – that she can come here and keep a line and say that I am not talking about how to finance the welfare of the future, when that is the main point of the article. In the case of care services in the municipality of Bergen, they have organised user choices in the home services. It works very well. But they haven't done it in their home health care yet. There is only one municipality in the country that has managed to do now, and that's Oslo. It's more complicated, but it'll also come. I am very satisfied with much of the care given in Bergen, but it is actually such that they are not in the goal of everything either. They've made good improvements to what they've done, but they're going to make more improvements, and a little depending on what the composition of the city council will look like, they're going to have a good mandate to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e556	One of the things the representative Solberg didn't talk about in his article was environmental and climate policy. However, in the last two and a half years, the Right in a number of individual cases has taken a stand here in the Storting and in other contexts that will increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. On 9 June 2010, they voted in favour of a proposal to amend the requirement for immediate gas-fired power plants to open up to new gas-fired power stations without CO2 emissions. So let them say their own petroleum message in ours. There they write that partial electrification of existing installations on the continental shelf shows this ‘is such a costly measure that resources should rather be deployed in other areas of climate policy’. Then they have also opened up for a new interpretation of the climate agreement’s demand for national cut – that is, some representatives from the Right have done so. So I know that the Right is on the climate deal. But my question is, how will they achieve the ambitious objectives of the climate agreement if one is to increase emissions so dramatically... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e570	I would very much like to stand here today and say ambitiously how the Right is going to implement the climate cuts in the years to come, because there we should be in today's policy. The size should have dealt with the follow-up of the climate agreement too far today. But we're not there, because the government hasn't been able to agree on where the climate cuts are going to come. They have not been able to provide evidence to Stortinget about how the joint settlement we have is to be implemented. Then Bård Vegar Solhjell could challenge me on individual parts of this and say that I should now have a long list of how to do it. The truth is that it is your party that would provide that basis, so that the Storting could make decisions and create framework conditions that were possible. Actually, I believe that SV should have kept an eye on climate change emissions and policies until they do so, because they have no opportunity to criticize anyone else when they themselves cannot provide a document to the Stortinget as a decision-making basis for the Norwegian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e575	It was violent to use language from someone who wants to be prime minister. I am surprised that the representative Solberg, who is a sworn European and euro-enthusiast, does not spend any time at all on the fundamental crisis we see both in the EU and in euro cooperation. You just jump over it smoothly. That's especially when we see the Right History. Jan Tore Sanner said in the middle of the last period that the benefits are clearly greater than the disadvantages of introducing the euro in Norway. And the representative of Solberg said in the autumn of 2008 that it is ‘more important to get Norway into the EU than to sit in government’. My question to Solberg's representative is: Is it still more important for the Right to introduce the euro and get Norway into the EU than to sit in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e586	There the representative made a small attempt to cheat in the quote. Yes, it is right that in the long term from the Right, I have a general desire to become a member of the EU. I have not said that it is a general wish for us to introduce the euro into Norway. But it is a general desire for us to participate in the solidarity promise of ensuring that the EU peace project goes on, ensuring that we participate in decisions that have a major impact on us. Therefore, if at some point the elections were to be between helping Norway actually become a member of the EU and being in government at that time, then the Right has said very clearly what that choice is. At the moment it is not a choice, for the moment there is no question in Norway to get this matter back on the agenda quickly. So to the more superior. I could speak more about the crisis in the European Union, but as national politicians in Norway, I think the most important thing we do is to respond to what happens to crises around us. And I've given you that answer: it's about creating security by investing in knowledge and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e593	Then the next representative is Bård Vegar Solhjell. There is one empty line, and there is a lot of evidence that it will go to the representative Battle Force Vedum, if none of the other parties ask for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e598	I now got the feeling that Solberg's representative was also about to become a bit of a hunch over a good election result. I may feel that since I'm not quite in that situation myself, I can recognize it. I don't think she thinks that I or SV or the government should keep an eye on climate policy until an exposed climate message is presented – and I think she knows the reason why the message has been postponed. But I would like to repeat my question: Does the representative of Solberg think that it is simply that she does not need to answer what the Right Climate Policy is in Stortinget and otherwise? Does the representative of Solberg think that she does not need to answer whether it is right to go in for new gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, whether it is important to go in for another interpretation of the climate agreement, and whether electrification is an inappropriate measure? I think that is a very unwise approach to the political debate, and I would ask her to take it up again. How should the climate agreement be implemented in order to increase climate emissions in all those areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e608	If I am allowed to start electrification, then we have made an assessment that carrying out electrification on some of the most expensive measures that will provide a relief in 2020, but no relief in 2030, is the wrong use of the money, for some of the installations will have stopped producing in 2030. That's why you kind of have an error investment, if we go into it. That's part of the knowledge that we're taking over. Yeah, we have to be a little reasonable. If we're going to spend billions, let them be used in the most important areas that give long-term effect. 2020 cannot be a goal that we set for ourselves entirely without looking at whether it has any effect in 2030. That's the long-term goal that has to be important. That's one of the reasons why we've done that, and that's the only area where we've made a difference from the Right Party in relation to the climate deal. I think that everyone else with whom we're going to discuss further in the follow-up is going to see that was a rational and good anomaly. Welcome should you be to agree with us then.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e613	Then the last representative will be Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e616	I think the representative of Solberg is making himself very small when she says that it is not natural to talk about the crisis in our nearest neighbouring country in a nation's national assembly debate, especially in the light of her ambition to become a prime minister. The situation with quotations is very tiring – several of us know about it – but it is interesting to also find out what politicians have meant over time. I want to make a new quote from Erna Solberg, even though I realized that it was a nuisance: that Norway will be involved in the euro-cooperation of EU membership is becoming a more important and important argument. But when I heard your answer instead, I almost felt that Solberg’s representative wanted to distance himself from euro-cooperation and to separate EU membership and euro-cooperation. So my question is: does the representative of Solberg still believe that euro cooperation is a more important and important argument for Norwegian EU membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e623	In 1994, when we carried out all the evaluations and analyses before EU membership, eurocooperation was promoted as one of the areas where economic policy might be thought to have a negative impact, because they were countercyclical in the Norwegian economy in relation to the European economy. In 2006, we had an independent investigation into how the Norwegian economy had changed, and how it reflected itself in relation to the euro at that time. At that time, due to the oil fund and due to the changes in the Norwegian economy, the Norwegian economy was less countercyclical. And the argument that in 1994 could count a little too no to the euro or too neutral, had actually moved to that we could have a more positive effect on the Norwegian economy of a euro membership. That's what the investigation said, and that's what the quote is from. I'm not hiding that I'm a member of an EU membership. I would like to spend a long time analysing the challenges in the EU. But let me point to two countries that you should study a little bit more, namely the Netherlands and Austria. [[President clubs]] They are members of the EU, members of euro-cooperation and suspect Norway in terms of unemployment and growth. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e635	The Prime Minister opened naturally enough with some reflections around July 22. It's in the days and weeks after the bullying event said many times that words become poor. But I also want to say that at the same time you have really seen that words have proved to have great power. Let me therefore take this opportunity to thank both Prime Minister and King for how they led the country in a time of crisis and put words on people’s feelings to a great extent – words that made sense to the individual, and that meant a lot and set a standard for the debate and reflections that we have had since July 22. It has been of great value, and it deserves praise from the Prime Minister. I would also like to say that I, representing the Christian People's Party, also think it is natural to note that after the July 22 events there are many in this country who have drawn the exchange of the Christian value tradition in which we stand. We also look at God's house, which has been opened. People have streamed to them – you have shown what tradition you stand in. It's not to be demeaned, of course, for those life-vision societies and religious communities that have otherwise assisted theirs. But there's also reason in a day like this to notice this. Then the prime minister was on the more operational side of the situation, as we now see it a little after the events. We expect changes in the budget presented in two days' time in terms of police, PST, defence, and not least, as I am very pleased that the Prime Minister took up, the cooperation between police and defence, and the defence's assistance to civil society in these kinds of situations. I don't think anyone will be surprised that you see the potential for improvement here. After such a situation as we had on July 22, it's easy to act on instinct. That is to a large extent what we avoided in Norway. The Minister of Justice gave an interview to the evening post this weekend, which was a good interview. He took responsibility, as he said, but he did not want us to lose sight of it. I quote from this interview: ‘We shall not make a legal paradigm shift. Poor justice policies are growing out of urgent decisions in an extreme situation.’ I fully agree with that. At the same time, I must say that the Minister of Justice has surprised me by giving an interview after he has been to Ila State Prison, when he radically suggested changes in our detention centre. Here I think he himself does not live up to the interview he gave in the evening post. Willingness has shown its strength since July 22nd. For the Christian People's Party, volunteering is one of the most important areas of society, and we promoted it just before the summer here in this Chamber a far-reaching proposal to strengthen volunteering. The Prime Minister said that the best answer to terrorism will be that people engage in politics and voluntary teams and organisations. I think he's right about that. We therefore need a national response to democracy and volunteering. It invites the Christian People's Party to do so. That is also why we are also promoting a well-known proposal in today's debate, namely the follow-up to the framework conditions for voluntary organisations. It is now one year since we have been promoting the same proposal in this Chamber. The reception was such from the government side that you wanted to have such a proposal sent. So it's about the voluntary institutions and their living conditions. Now it's been one year. The majority has not yet received any information from the government on the position of voluntary organisations in our health and social policy. So we're taking it up again today, so it's not to be said that someone has forgotten it. I also noticed that this was not mentioned in the royal address yesterday. It may well say something about how much will there is in the government right at this point in terms of ensuring long-term and good framework conditions for the voluntary sector. Human dignity has in many ways gained a new meaning for many since July 22. Here are many debates that the Stortinge will take in the coming year. Also alarmingly, this was not mentioned in the census. Let me do two examples. One is the discussion about early foetal diagnosis, which many want to be able to detect Down’s syndrome. The situation is now that nine out of ten parents choose abortion when they are shown to have Down’s syndrome. This is fast becoming a sorting society, where human dignity is ranked. In a very well-written article on Saturday, lawyer Trude Trønens-Christianen wrote the following: ‘I have a brother, Stian, who has Down’s syndrome. Stian's life is ranked as undesirable.' Furthermore, she says to those who want such a development welcome, that they have to bring something more, which tells where they want, what direction they want society to move in. This is a debate the Christian People's Party is looking forward to having in this room, that we are discussing important ethical perspectives that mean much more than crowns and ears. The same applies to questions related to surrogati and all the ethical dilemmas it represents. It is also notified by the government, but was not mentioned in the census. I guess that means that it wasn't that important either that the place deserved there. In last year's throne speech, it was invited to a single settlement – it was the carnivorous settlement. Unlike that year, no settlements were invited at any point with the opposition in this year's census. It's exciting to see if it's a signal that the government has enough with itself, to agree with itself and its party groups, or if you're still willing and interested in looking to others to get cooperation and good solutions. I mention the follow-up to the guarantee of dignity, and I mention the climate challenges. There's a lot of work to do for a total mass. And I mention not least the poverty challenges. On this we are also promoting proposals later today. We want a common plan, a common work, for combating poverty in our country. Good traditions are worth keeping in claim. Our will for solidarity beyond our own borders is one of them. Here, both social democracy and Christian democracy have stood in a long-term alliance, and the jam has given us much with the Right in Government at this point as well. We're a center party. We defend a well-developed welfare state. But we also believe that a welfare society is much more than a welfare state. In particular, families, voluntary sector and value-creating enterprises are important cornerstones of a welfare society. We will work for a warmer society built on Christian democratic values, and it commits us on three pillars for a good society: individual freedom, responsibility for each other and respect for human dignity. From the Christian People's Party we look forward to working constructively for good solutions for this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e676	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he mentioned. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e681	I agree very clearly politically with what was one of the main points of the Seven, namely the emphasis on the importance of the voluntary and non-profit sector, and I would say that the government's policy in this area actually documents it. There are many measures that the government has implemented in its time of government, which underline this very fact, and which have strengthened the voluntary and non-profit sector in many ways. What is the current issue in a treaty debate is asking the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party in this context: how does he view the zeal of the right parties for commercialisation as a challenge to the non-profit sector? I believe that both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party and several other parties in this Chamber see it as the greatest threat, and I would like him to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e688	I record that the representative Kolberg believes that this government has done a lot for the volunteer forces in society. Then it becomes a paradox when the organisation that actually organizes most of the voluntary and non-profit institutions says that if the policy that has been pursued under the red-green regime continues, we don't have ideal drivers in five to ten years. It tells me something about that there's some potential for improvement from the government on this particular point. I do not feel that the Right Party and the Advance Party make the voluntary organisations and their living conditions as if they were purely commercial actors. In fact, I also see that there is an understanding that the non-profit sector needs long-term and predictable framework conditions, which means something more than a contract that runs over three to four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e695	I don't think there should be any reason to question whether there is a significant difference between the Labour Party and the right-wing parties' relations with the non-profit sector. I want to underline what I said in my first line about our strong desire for them to play a role. We've let them play a role. They have played a role in all the government periods of the Workers' Party, both now and in the past. There are two concrete examples of this government's willingness to do this, which Syversen mentions – namely that the government has now launched its own competition for the ideals only, and that within Health South-East, on a directive from the Department, it has been stated that the ideals are to be awarded long-term and good contracts throughout the care of health south-east. So the claim that this is not a difference between the Labour Party's policy and the right-hand side's competitive – which is absolutely what challenges the non-profit sector the most, not least in Oslo – I want to hear again the Seven take hold of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e707	To take it positive: I have also registered that the Ministry of Health has given an instruction to Health South-East regarding their relationship with drug institutions. At the same time, it must be said that it was under the red-green regime that the tendering process escalated. After all, it was when the competitions were speeded up — tendering procedures that were designed so that it completely squandered ideal actors who had a long seagoing service in cooperation with the public. But if this is a first signal that you're going to look at this again, I'm the first one to be happy about it, but the Storting has not yet seen anything about which line this government will basically choose to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e714	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Syversen on his new position of responsibility. Politics is about things, about getting through things, and there's a community of values between the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and between the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green Government, in a lot of things. We are often attacked by the Christian People's Party to make too little red-green policy. I'll do some examples of that. In aid policy: we have given it a very high priority. We have increased the aid budgets, and we also agreed to cooperate with the Christian People's Party in the last year's budget, but the Christian People's Party would even a little more. But we have a session. In immigration policy: The one who criticises us if we tighten up there is the Christian People's Party. They are not satisfied with the liberalisation we are doing. The same is true in integration policy. In alcohol policy: Those who criticize us for not tightening up even more than what we do are Christian People's Party. Today I saw that their leader was concerned with the Sex Purchases Act. It was also in cooperation with the government parties that it was introduced. In the field of poverty policy, the same is true; in the area of rural policy, the same is true. In the area by region, they criticize us for making too little red-green. But then you say that you will cooperate with the Right, and I don't understand that the Christian People's Party can stand in for it, because that's the policy it's about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e723	Thank you for your congratulations. I think the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has listened too much to criticism, because it is not right that I have criticized the red-green ones, for example. in the case of assistance. Is there one person in this room who, on the contrary, has praised the government, when the budget has been presented, in order to have shown the willingness to see that there is someone who needs help in a welfare society – not in Norwegian, but in other countries – that is what is signed. I've praised the government when you've really invested in aid. When it comes to alcohol law and possible curtailment in time, it's just to say that once the government has really concluded that you want to tighten up, you have about every floor in it, and then you don't choose to do it, you actually deserve criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e732	I would also like to join the congratulations. My question is about the distribution of society and class differences, and the relationship between this and poverty in society. I see that there are two conflicting proposals that are on the table of the Christian People's Party today. One is that we are going to develop a plan to combat poverty that we have already presented, and the other is about looking at different variants to take out so-called working capital from the wealth tax. Then there's a relationship between the differences in society and the number and the proportion of the poor. If you add to a regime – like you do, if you go for a tax proposal like that – that gives targeted tax relief in the billions to those who already have the most from before, you will also get a development in the society where you will eventually get more poor. There is a correlation between the distribution of wealth in society and the number of poor. Does the Christian People’s Party agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e739	It would surprise me very much if Roar Flöthen has presented a proposal which, in his view, creates more poverty in this country. That's what Thorkildsen is saying. I actually believe that some tax reliefs will serve the entire community, if these tax havens are designed to ensure that we have a business that creates jobs, jobs that provide tax revenue, that gives work, and that also allows us to do more for those who fall outside and need the help of society. So here's probably the representative Thorkildsen and I have a little disagreement with the premises, in short.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e746	Now I have faith that a conversation with the Prime Minister might get Roar Flåthen on better thoughts, but I don't think you have to hide behind – I had almost said – the skirts of Roar Flåthen. You can stand for your own policy. After all, the Christian People's Party has promoted this as a proposal several times. The point is that such a change would give you about. 3.5 B.C.E. kr in the pocket of the 800 people in Norway who have more than 3 million. kr in income. This, in turn, will lead to a development in which the richest in Norway will end up less concerned with the welfare state, which is the most important redistributive instrument we have. The property tax will quickly fall if it is the case that the richest – those with share assets – no longer pay taxes on wealth, but only ordinary pensioners will have to pay it. The wealth tax and the combination of it and the dividend tax are the reason why we have managed to get a progressive tax payment in our society again – which was not under the government of which the Christian People's Party participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e753	I must confess that it is a while since I saw Roar Flöthen in a skirt, but we have no need to hide behind his skirt or anyone else's skirt. But our policy is a very good policy because it is a tax policy that ensures that we have a good business, that creates jobs, and that we can do more for the poor. But sometimes I get the feeling that it is more important for SV and some others to fight the rich than to do something for the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e763	The notified climate message will be a test piece of how the nation manages to meet the ever more serious warning issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The Christian People's Party has the tradition of joining forces with the Center Party and other parties with environmental exposure in this room for an offensive climate policy. One has not only gone beyond the government in several areas and several measures in climate policy; one at the same time generally points politically to the need for an alternative to today's government, an option that we know will have a greater impact on the Progress Party in Norwegian policy, a party that has recently repeated that they have not decided whether or not man-made climate change exists. What are the thoughts of the representative Syversen about the possibility of achieving an offensive climate policy in a system where the Progress Party has a greater impact on Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e770	When the representative Sande talks about test pieces, I guess I also have the impression that the coming climate report is an important test piece for the cooperation between the three government parties. We look forward to discussing it in Stortinget, although there was actually no invitation in the throne to a settlement in relation to the coming climate announcement. It surprises me somewhat. But I can assure True that the agreements we make – and it was that in the climate agreement we actually have – it was the Right, Christian People's Party and Left that moved the red-green in a more offensive environmental policy direction – and the commitment we have to climate is going to stand firm independent of partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e777	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e780	I would also like to start this debate by thanking the Prime Minister, thanking the Government, the President and, in fact, the entire Parliament for the way in which the terrorist action we were subjected to was dealt with. I also want to take the opportunity to thank people for their commitment – thank both all those who went to the streets on Monday, and all those who showed their care in different ways. It showed that we have a society with some common values that you set up, not just as politicians and as leaders, but also as citizens of a society. A state's prime task is to protect its citizens. That's our problem number. 1 as a society to organize it. We have to admit that on July 22nd this year we did not have that task. There were many who made an amazing effort, there were many who did an incredible lot more than it said in the turnbook that they should do, there were many people who put up an incredibly much more than you could expect. Yet we failed. There must be something about our systems, something about our checklists, something about our responsibilities, something about the exercises we were supposed to do – someone who was responsible for thinking about the unmistakable, who didn't do what they were supposed to do. But that doesn't mean we're going to start a hunt for the individuals who might have chosen different assumptions from what we gave them. We have to check if our systems are good enough to do that job if one day we are facing a threat similar to this. What worked well, and I want to brag about, is our health care system. It was actually so that of all those who were tricked into the hospital that day, there is only one we lost. All the people who met at the Medical Agency here in Oslo experienced a super-professional organization that accepted them and took care of them. The second thing that worked in our society was volunteering. It is not possible to sit in a Ministry of Justice and decide that people should sit in the boat and calm. It's just something people do as active citizens of a society, active citizens who care about their fellow people, active citizens who have a joint responsibility for the community. It showed volunteering and committed citizens that we were able to do it that day. So there was also a lot that worked, and we're going to be happy about it. We must also bear in mind that after World War II there has been no political violence in Norway from outside right-wing environments. All political violence in Norway after World War II has been perpetrated by far-right environments. It is also something that we have to take responsibility for in this Chamber – how we deal with those environments, we have taken those environments seriously, we have met them with debate, but also if we have taken the threat seriously from them. As liberals, I am concerned that there are no shortcuts to find the good solutions in terms of legislation, monitoring, police methods, which should be found in the days after such things happen. You have to take the time, there's a debate to do properly. You also have to discuss what's in the content. I am delighted at the discussions here in the Chamber with the Prime Minister about the Prime Minister's beautiful words that we are going to meet this with more democracy and more transparency. So to the great challenges that we see the world facing today. We are in a global economic crisis. We see that we are facing major threats that can really rock the important things in our society, and the question is how to deal with them in Norway. How are we going to meet the major challenges in Norway? How are we actually going to use it that we have had politicians with long-term thoughts, who have managed to make a big deal for the future, in this room? How are we going to make the best possible use of that space of action? It was clear when the voters went to elections, that they realized that having politicians who actually know what the rule of action is is something you appreciate. Having politicians who think about long-term economics is something you appreciate. But the question is: do we use that space of action – do we use the opportunities we have in Norway, in the right way, when we have seen a government that in good times is unable to prioritize it to take action in relation to the climate, where we find that we have a three-time climate message, where we experience that climate research and transport research are being cut off again and again, where we feel that the great promises in cities in terms of achieving good collective solutions must be lifted by the cities alone, where we have not achieved our objectives neither on Kårstø nor on Mongstad, and where we have not been able to make the big shift from red to green taxes? When we don't do it in good times, how do we think we should do it in bad times? In bad times, it is even harder to take the really tough ones to change businesses. In bad times, it is really even more difficult to make the big moves to transform a tax system in a more environmentally friendly way. The second major challenge we have is how to build our knowledge society in the future, how to create the business we're going to live on, how to manage to stimulate the jobs that are forward-looking, that can actually keep up with the jobs in international competition even in the new times. Here we had a unique chance in Norway. Here we had a lot of opportunities because we've been long-term until now -- we've managed to take those steps. But we see that we have a government that is unable to prioritize knowledge, which is unable to prioritize research, which is unable to see that we need to do something about teacher training – that we need to do something about the continuing training of teachers, that we need to give knowledge status again if we are to be able to build that society further. We often agree on this analysis, but the instruments in the whole field of knowledge have been incorrect. This government started with a breakout in research, and last year we saw the worst research budget in decades. We had the opportunity to prioritize it in good times – my question is: Does this government then manage to prioritize it in bad times? In the first persuasion debates of this government, all refugee policy contained the word «humane». Now "human" disappears. When we remove the concept of 'human' in good times, are we able to prioritise the humanity of this in worse times? We see that families are no longer allowed to live together because they are so devoted to being strict that they now have a line of cases in the European Court of Human Rights about how we manage our asylum policy, where we are hard on all those who are stateless, much harder than right-wing populists elsewhere in Europe. We experience that we get a black labour market, where people are standing in the back of the mess with poor pay and poor working conditions because they don't have anywhere else to be. When we don't do it in good times, do we think we can do it in bad times? It's my challenge to the government of the state budget – whether they're able to do the big steps for the future, now that we see the economic challenges are the pressure, when we don't see that they've been able to do it in the times when they had very good days. With that, I'll address the suggestions we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e803	The representative Skei Grande has thus taken up the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e808	As the representative knows, the Left's sister party in Denmark, Radical Left, went very well during the national elections in the fall. Now the party is part of the social-democratic government. The representative Skei Grande has pointed out the political similarities between the Radical Left and the Norwegian Left, even in different contexts. Radical Left sees its policy served to look to the centre-left, while Norwegian Left is not foreign to look to the Right and the Advance Party. There are two completely different value choices. However, I wonder what the representative will learn from the government platform that her Danish sister party has been involved in negotiating. For example, it says that they will strengthen the encouragement of municipalities to set up comprehensive schools where learning, physical development and social activities can be integrated into a mainstream process throughout the day. What is the explanation that the sister party of the Left in a comparable Nordic country is strong for something that Norwegian Left strongly opposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e822	It is quite right that Margrethe Vestager's Radical Left is very close to the Left in many, many political areas. In terms of the impact they've got on the government platform, they've got a huge grip on the climate, they have very ambitious targets within climate, while here we see a working party like brakes and brakes and brakes, which means that SV loses choice. They have taken a major step in the field of family policy in the field of asylum. While we are tightening up and becoming the worst in Europe, the Radical Left is now getting an impact on the government platform that will give them a completely different asylum and refugee policy. They get an asylum and refugee policy where the family is in the center, where families are to live together, while this government splits families, throws out carers, goes into families at night, arrests them and sends them out when it's family fathers who should be with their children and their wives. That's the difference. There is a big difference between what you see today's government stands for, and what we've done in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e829	I get it so that Hadia Tajik wants another line. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e832	Thanks for the answer. My challenge to the representative was what the representative will learn from what is on the government platform of the Danish government. I should have liked to have an even clearer answer to how their sister party agrees with a completely different value choice than what you can see that the Norwegian Left is repeatedly expressing itself at many intersections, where you support the Right Party and the Advance Party, as you have done in Oslo, as you do in Tromsø, and as you do in many other places. There are two fundamentally different road choices, and that's what I would like to have clarity in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e837	The representative, Tajik, must realise that politics is about what can be achieved in different policy areas. Radical Left has had a massive impact on the environment, a massive impact on asylum and refugee policy, which I gave examples. They have now received the Minister of Education. It's going to affect Danish school policy that our sister party is now sitting with the school minister. Now we are sitting with the school minister in Sweden, now we are sitting with the school minister in Denmark, now it is certainly time for us to get a liberal in the school minister's post also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e843	A ministerial post that the Left in any case does not receive is the Minister of Finance. I want to go back to the issue of wealth taxes, which is a very important topic today, and on which most media have thrown themselves. The left is also for us to remove the wealth tax, or at least for us to take away the so-called working capital from it. Removing the property tax will lead to the distribution of 13 billion to 14 billion. kr to private, to some of the country's richest people. If we just take it from so-called working capital, half goes, 7 billion. Dr, to those people in Norway — mainly men — who have more than 3 million. kr in income. The left also has to assume that there is a connection between the differences in society, how big social problems you have in society, and how much poor we get. Then I wonder if the Left has also intended to go along with it and see if it would be better to support it under a redistributive tax policy and a progressive tax policy for the richest as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e852	I think maybe SV could go along with it and start to see that this isn't about fighting poverty. This is about creating jobs. This is about using the tax system to actually create jobs. It is not that this leads to more luxury lives for a few people, but it leads to companies getting money back that they can invest in new jobs and new businesses. I understand that it doesn't fit into SV's study circles, but that's actually how reality is. It's actually where jobs are created, it's in the companies where jobs are created. It is the people who are with and create those jobs, and creating jobs is fighting poverty. But as the Seven say, it's more important to fight poverty than to fight wealth. Because sometimes it's like people who have extra money are involved in creating something that gives a lot of opportunities to people they wouldn't have otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e859	These so-called study circles obviously run by SV, in which case we share with millions of people around the world, who are just concerned about a development where there are greater differences between poor and rich, and that it has a clear impact on how many are poor. We've got a very interesting book, which is peer-reviewed research, which has just gone into the relationship between inequality in a society and poverty, but not least the relationship between inequality and how good society is to live in for the whole population. We're joining that research. We agree that it is good to have societies with small differences, because there are less health problems, and there is less crime. It also gives more productivity because people become more adaptable. So it's also good for business to have small differences. But it is not consistent with a tax policy in which the wealthiest are getting more and more withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e866	I fully agree that it is important to have a society of small differences. It's important to have a tax system that doesn't make big differences, but it's also important to have a tax system that stimulates jobs. It is also important to have a tax system that stimulates people to actually take the jumps it is to bet, dry to pursue their idea and join in and use that idea to create jobs for one, two, three, maybe one hundred other people. It has a self-esteem, and it has nothing to do with the struggle to make the least possible difference in a society, I agree with Thorkildsen, but it's not the fight against anyone being involved in creating jobs that actually contribute here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e871	The left will ensure, through strong commitment to renewable energy, that Norway maintains its position as an energy nation. In practice, however, they are in favour of small-scale power plants, wind turbines, construction of forest roads and other different facilities for increased use of renewable energy. My question is therefore: how will the Left in practice increase the use of renewable energy without facilitating this by, for example: construction of forest highways for logging and running of small-scale power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e876	The climate struggle is a struggle to keep the values of our nature at bay. Then the fight for more renewable energy is important. But that doesn't mean we're going to rage nature on our way to get there, because we're raging all Norwegian nature to win the climate battle, and the climate battle isn't worth winning. That's why it's important to take those balances, balances that are about us taking care of some areas. We're going to have to expand windmills, but that doesn't mean we're going to have windmills all over the place. We want to expand small power plants, but that doesn't mean we're going to have small power plants everywhere. That means we're actually also going to extract oil in Norway, but not that we're going to extract oil everywhere. That means we're going to build high voltage lines, but maybe not in the most vulnerable natural areas we have. If we can't have two thoughts in our head at the same time, the climate struggle has no value. There's no point in fighting for something you've already destroyed on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e884	Climate challenges are the main challenges facing society in the long term. For us in the Central Party, it has been important to have a targeted, concrete energy policy in which to expand and use the country's resources in a sound and long-term way. Random expansions with great natural interference are none of us who want. That's short-term thinking, because then we can't create enthusiasm for the further development of renewable energy. I also hope the Left sees that we have to be willing to do little action to solve the climate struggle. But I have a question for the Left about another case, and it's that the Left, like us, has its roots in the countercultures. The centre party has its roots in the countercultures. Then it surprises me that one of the representatives of the Left, Ola Elvestuen, said last week that it is to introduce bedtime when we in Norway have a desire to pursue a slightly tighter alcohol policy – when we know the history of the Left and the roots of the Left. Does the representative Trine Skei Grande agree that pursuing a residual alcohol policy is the introduction of bedtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e891	Then I think that I and Battle Violence Vedum have a slightly different perception of what counterculture is. Counterculture is about having faith in local democracy, the belief in being able to make wise decisions even in the individual community, and not believing that central power and all genius actually originates from this room. The left hand position is that we want the municipalities to decide. We don't want the state to decide when to go home. We don't want the Stortinget to decide when to close the patio. We believe that local government can decide. We believe that each local democracy can have good processes to decide. In fact, I think it's closer to the countercultures that Battle Violence Vedum talked about -- the common center values -- than the state is going to decide when to lay down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e896	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e899	This year’s census confirms that Norway is a country full of opportunities. The idea of a strong community has stood out well at a time of increasing globalisation, economically difficult times around us, and not least when our democracy was attacked in the most cruel way through the terror of the government quarter and on the Utøla July 22. In such a time, it makes sense to establish that there is more that unites us than what separates us as nation, society and people. At the same time, democracy is being pursued by our commitment. It has thousands of thousands of people shown at the local elections now, even though the turnout was not as high as what we hoped for in advance. As the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, I would also like to commend all the parties for their efforts in a difficult time and in an election campaign which was shorter and different than before. We still have major challenges in Norway, but I still think most people can agree that we are basically doing well in this country. We're doing the big problems in community, we're doing each other, we're contributing to value creation and sharing. When last year the UN was to be able to live in the world’s best country – and Norway was – Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said: ‘We have learned that while economic growth is important, it is essential to use the state’s revenues to enable all people to enjoy a longer, healthier and more productive life.’ So it's not just about how much each person has at his disposal every day, but also about how to distribute the resources and invest in school, health and infrastructure. Combating poverty by distributing wealth. It is also worth remembering today that it is not that long since the Norwegian model was considered to have expired, but reality has shown us the opposite. Relatively small income differences, responsible employment organisations and a level of taxation that enables us to finance welfare offers that are accessible to all – all of these have contributed to the creation of a society with high adaptability, high productivity and low unemployment. We have a social model that forms the basis for meeting the future with optimism. There's no need to experiment with this winning recipe, but we're going to take care of, improve and renew the Norwegian model. Politics is important. What policies are pursued obviously means a great deal for the future of the country and for the everyday life of people. Politics is primarily about elections. It's about whether we're going to give tens of billions of dollars in tax cuts, or whether we're going to secure and build the welfare community of the future. It's about whether we should strengthen the common school with an increased focus on knowledge, quality and mastering, or whether we should allow for a massive privatisation of our schools. It's about whether we're going to build on the Community solutions, or bet more on a society where individuals need to be more successful. The future of the welfare society will be one of the debates in which we in this room will separate layers ideologically and politically towards 2013. A strong welfare state is the cornerstone of a safe society. The welfare debate must be about how to ensure good and safe health and care services for all. It must be about how we can find solutions that ensure that all people in Norway receive good treatment when they need it. Then we should not forget in these debates that the starting point is that we have one of the world's best welfare systems, but we should be critical and pragmatic. We're going to be willing to renew and change. We don't just have to change to keep going, we have to change to improve. So it's not more than three years since the international financial crisis broke loose. There were considerable consequences for a number of countries. In many countries the problems have only escalated, and we see that around us, on the continent, every day. Now we're on our way into a new international economic crisis. Unemployment in the countries around us has stuck to about 10 p.m. Many countries have youth unemployment even higher than that. States are struggling with the economy. In many countries, people experience a reduction in their wages and pensions. Economic uncertainty is spreading. We see that the financial crisis has evolved into an economic crisis, which, in turn, creates the ground for social crisis and beyond into a political crisis. These are very serious times in Europe. Our countries of cooperation and trade partners have been hit. Three years ago, it was about saving the banks. Now it's about saving people's livelihoods, but it's also about saving land. The situation out there may have consequences in Norway, we must be prepared for that. That is why it is so important that we now have a responsible economic policy to secure Norwegian jobs. The red-green government led the country safely through the financial crisis. There was a good understanding of the situation, a very good cooperation with both employees and employers, and the right measures were put in place at the right time. It saved many businesses and jobs all over the country. In addition, the foundation of our welfare society, which is high employment, is protected. Work has always been the main political issue of the Workers' Party. So is today. It'll be until next year. But we also have a task of defending the welfare community and not least the financing of the welfare society. All parties have great ambitions on behalf of our welfare community, but not all parties are involved in taking responsibility for funding it, so that people get the health care they need, that the elderly get a decent care, and that our children get a high-quality school of knowledge. When the Progress Party wants to raise to 100 billion kr in tax cut, that means that our common fund gets 100 billion. kr less. It will affect our ability to finance health, care and schools. There are many people who have talked about Roar Flåthen today, and that's why I want to do it. He has agreed to a review of the property tax, but he has also clarified that LO has not entered to remove it. Roar Flåthen also says that: ‘We need to look at both problematic and positive aspects. The tax ensures social cohesion by paying about 2.5 percent of the country's richest half of it. The tax is worth about $13 billion for well-being.’ For those parties who have announced here that they will promote Roar Flöthen's proposal in full, I also draw attention to the fact that he says that 'to make changes, it must not weaken the state's income or lead to a lower tax burden for the wealthiest in society.' He also says: ‘What characterises countries that do not have taxes on wealth is that they often have much higher taxes on property. [[...]] If one looks at property taxes and taxes in the context of property taxes, Norway is below the average in Europe and lower than in our neighbouring countries. A review may look at the point of balance between taxes on property and property.» I look forward to seeing the proposals of the Progress Party and whether they reflect the whole of what Roar Flöthen has said. Many people say that things were better before, but that's not quite true. At least it's worth noting the studies that show that people trust each other more today than they did in 1981, for example. It's one of the best results in a society where we set up for each other: trust. In an uncertain world, we need to trust each other. Trust and security also give freedom. In the heart of social democracy lies the idea of freedom for the individual – the freedom to follow their dreams in a society that provides a safety net for you and yours, the freedom to work for what you believe in, the freedom to express your opinion and have influence over the society of which you are part. Therefore, in the Workers' Party, together with our good partners in the SV and the Center Party, we will continue to work for a society with strong communities. It's a society that gives us more freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e954	I just want to point out that the common denominator for many of the lines that have been aimed at the bourgeois parties today clearly reveals that the red-green parties are now looking forward to redemption. It's like you should think that the 2013 elections were just about a government change, and you're eager to find out what that government will look like. So that's just what I'm thinking. In the census, the government announces a communication on the relationship between the state and the municipality. That is a message I would like to welcome. I'd like to ask Helga Pedersen to reflect a little bit about it, because many municipalities are now experiencing what they call state domination. They experience a highly inhibiting state legislation that makes it difficult for them to exploit their own land. There is a strong provocation in many places with regard to the county that intervenes with the municipalities, which they regard as unreasonable. It is the Law on Beach Zones, it is the Law on Planning and Building; it is less and less local freedom of action. What does Helga Pedersen think of such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e961	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party is still behind the red-green government option – it should be lacking, with the results we have achieved in these years. Our goal is to go to elections with SV and the Center Party in 2013 and win that election with them. Our government is to be tolerated and measured by results, but I think the voters have the right to know what alternatives they have, and that the red-green option should also be measured against what may be of alternatives on the civil side – if it comes into place before 2013. We in the Workers' Party are concerned with local democracy and with a real opportunity for our local politicians to decide. The most important thing we can do is to make sure that our local politicians have an economy that allows them to make real priorities and choices. Then there is often a dilemma to the extent to which government leaders are to be given, and to the extent to which matters are to be decided locally. But it is very strange to get that question from the Progress Party, by everyone, who has so far raised the issue of increased government governance, price financing, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e968	The Progress Party has called for equal treatment of citizens, whether they live in a rich or poor municipality, but we can come back to that debate. I think it is a growing challenge for many municipalities that they have less and less available on their own land. Let's take the municipality of Nittedal outside of Oslo. One percent of Nittedal's area is at the discretion of local politicians. The other areas are bound by the State for various reasons. It gives little freedom of action to a municipality in growth that needs to free the area, among other things. for residential construction. This is about giving local politicians freedom of action where they are clearly responsible – in land policy, in construction matters – which means so much to the ability of municipalities to facilitate increased mobility and well-being for residents. When you see the opposite trend, with an increasing number of state interventions and regulations, isn't it time to start reversing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e975	In a number of areas, we sit here in the hall and make national policies. In some areas, municipalities have great discretion. In other areas, we are committed to providing quite concrete guidance to ensure that what we adopt here in the Chamber is implemented. When the representative Siv Jensen mentions the environment and the area, it is precisely an area where we have more recently released into the Western coastal zone policy. We can discuss that more. But if we are to discuss the conditions of local policy, we must take the whole perspective into account. Then we must also include our willingness to finance local democracy, so that local politicians, whether from the Labour Party or from the Progress Party, can make real political choices. Then we also need to discuss the attachment of the Progress Party to price financing, to a much stronger detailed management of the health and care sector and the fact that in many areas we want to take the freedom of action from our local politicians and transfer it to a state bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e982	Listening to the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, it sounds as if the Labour Party's policy came first, and then value creation and jobs came after it. But the reality is that first came the creation of value. It is not the case that the 200,000–300000 jobs created have been adopted by the government. They came because there are people who do what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said: they get up in the morning and go to work. And then there are people who own businesses and create businesses. Then I think that it would be natural, when many in Norway are good at creating businesses and creating jobs, to ask them for advice on what kind of policies to pursue – just as when Norway is doing well in the World Cup. Then it's nice that it happens under a red-green rule, but the most natural thing would be to ask the athletes and the trainers how they can do it even better at the next championship. After all, the business community is asking for, among other things, more research, better school, more intercourse. They also demand relief from taxes on wealth and less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e987	I don't think we disagree that there's a connection between creating and sharing. I also used large parts of my post to say just how important it is that people are working, because that's how we create revenues that can be distributed in the next round. I also stressed in my post how important it is that the State has a good dialogue with both employers and employees. One of the things NHO has been very busy saying to our government is that it needs to be simplified more in business. Yes, our government has followed suit. The audit obligation for small enterprises has been removed. The requirement to share capital has been lowered. It is a proposal that has been embraced by industry. Then I fully agree with the Right Representative here that we are going to bet on school, we are going to bet on transportation, and we are going to bet on research. That's why we've invested in all these areas, and kids are learning more in school today than they did in the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e996	I listen very well when the Labour Party parliamentary leader speaks. I am told that the representative repeats «to create and share», but I am a little more uncertain about whether she really takes the consequences of it. Let me just give you a simple example: if this is the case, the more resources companies have – more funds we can probably agree on – to create new jobs, the safer the jobs. Why, then, is it not a reasonable idea to allow companies to keep more resources, so that they can create more jobs and secure more jobs? It is not the way to ensure the welfare of Norway in the future by taxing more if you create less.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1003	We're going to create more, and then we're going to treasure as we do today. The level of taxation we have had under the red-green government has at least not prevented us from creating ten times as many jobs in the private sector as was the case under the Bondevik II government. If it is that tax relief itself would make new jobs pop up, I would like to hear where Torbjørn Røe Isaksen picks up his good examples. Had his logic been connected, Greece would have been a paradise today because there has just been cut taxes. But it did not end in more value creation and in more revenue for the state there — on the contrary, it went very badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1010	The representative shall not be given the opportunity to reply on behalf of Papandreou and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1013	It seems to me that Greece’s economic problems are a little more complex than that – including corruption and issues of economic policy that have failed over time. But my question is related to the post of Helga Pedersen, and I listened carefully. She often uses the word "well-being state" and I am looking for the ideological position of the Labour Party's parliamentary leader. She spoke of «Community solutions», «common school» — a number of important services for the population. Does she think there is consistency between welfare state and welfare community, or does she think that there is actually a third pillar in Norwegian society: civil society? What role does she intend to play in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1020	In the case of Greece, yes, there are certainly several items there. This is not the case with the Seven, but the representatives of the parties responsible for fiscal policy will have to give other examples from Europe, where taxes have been cut heavily, where they flourish in business and where welfare has been built up. When it comes to the question from the representative Syversen, it's important that we have a state as a redistributor. But it is clear that in a modern welfare society, the voluntary actors and civil society have a very important role to play. Not least this summer after the island of Utah, when Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid and many, many other volunteers set up helped and made the situation much easier to bear for those who were hit. We still see this happening in Norwegian communities today, and we owe them a great thank you for that. That's why we're also going to play with them – play along with the volunteer of the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1028	The renewal of the public sector is important for the Left and for well-being, and therefore, in the last two debates on the throne, we have just taken up a municipal merger with the representative of Helga Pedersen. She has said both times that the Soria Moria statement is firm, and that therefore nothing will happen in the next few years. Several central workers' party people are still out there and believe that community reunification is important, precisely because of the well-being that Helga Pedersen talked a lot about in his post. It is in the care of the elderly, and it is going to be in kindergartens and at the Interaction Reform that is now going to be in place. A working party rapporteur in Skedsmo has been very clear that this is important, and said that if the debate does not come now, it must be done by force. Does the representative, Mr Pedersen, agree that if the debate does not start now, it must be forced to do so gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1035	First, I would like to stress that the Soria Moria declaration is fixed for this period. I believe the representative Tenden is aware that this issue is something we have a debate on in the Labour Party, and is going to have a debate on the programme process that we are about to enter into. The national assembly of the Workers' Party has already established that a new municipal structure is needed in the country and that a new structure should be based on volunteering. Then, in the next round, we will have to discuss whether – if voluntary action does not lead to – to open up to a managed merger. I'm among those who have mentioned it, but volunteering is what you should first rely on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1045	«There is no such thing as society. There are individual men and women, and there are families. Never has the famous quote from Britain's former Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, known more wrong and out of date than in the past since July 22. We're so little without each other and without cohesion. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank both the Prime Minister, the Government, the Stortinget and voluntary and public institutions, and I look forward to a debate on our preparedness. It's necessary. But I also look forward to a debate on another important preparedness, which is what readiness we as a society have for cohesion and solidarity when we really need him to be heavy-headed and daily. The foundation of that readiness is a society in which we trust each other. We have a lot of knowledge today about what creates that trust between people. Firstly, it is the combination of education and getting a chance in the labour market that is decisive for everyone. What we now see in many European countries with high youth unemployment, a generation of low incomes, is a bomb under social solidarity, not just a social bomb for the individual. Secondly, there is a close link between trust in public institutions and social trust between the welfare state, institutions and civil society. ‘A small state will not produce a big society’, as the Labour leader Ed Miliband put it. Third, trust is higher in societies with little inequality. So reducing social differences is also important from a trust perspective. Fortunately, many of the goals I've been going through now are overseeing goals for many. But it is also the case that policies and instruments go in different directions. On Friday, the government presented the distribution message, which shows that the differences in Norway have been smaller in recent years, unlike in other countries with which we compare. Where the Right Party and the Progress Party are tired of many things, they are some of the policies in important areas that will increase the social differences in Norway. They're some about removing the property tax, which is a distribution of 8 billion. kr – and more than that – to the richest percentage in Norway. On the right, tax cuts were proposed on average at NOK 60000 for those with income above SEK 3 million. kr in the last alternative state budget and the Progress Party much more. The game is some of its programs to open up more local pay formation and slightly increase pay differentials in Norway. We will also need all the social solidarity we can solve our generation's greatest challenge in the decades to come: the global climate problems. My generation is facing an option. We can choose which story we'll give to our future grandchildren. I would like to say that my generation fears dangerous climate change for the generation that is coming after us, and will therefore lay the groundwork for them not to have as dramatic consequences as they can have. This is an option that we won't get many times in life. Therefore, climate policy is the most important thing, the most important overarching issue, in the year we enter. We have to get back on track by an international agreement with a ceiling on emissions and a global price of carbon. At the same time, we know that the challenge of opening up is very difficult and can take time. That is why we must also present a climate communication that addresses heavy sectors such as industry, petroleum, transport and construction, and show how we can bring down climate change emissions in Norway – also in cooperation with other countries and regions. We simply need to begin with the social transformation of a greener and more climate-friendly society. It's cheaper to do it quickly, it's smarter to do it quickly, and that's what's necessary to achieve the goal of not going beyond about 2 degrees, and letting go of the most dramatic consequences of climate change. That is why we must start the transition quickly and continue the green policy of the government in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1065	The representative, Solhjell, opened with a quote from Margaret Thatcher, and I guess he also firmly struck something we already know, that they are a party to the collectiveist, a party that puts the system, the state, the public in front of individuals. This is done with regard to regional health enterprises, where the consideration of the Workers' Party is more important than with regard to their own policies when it comes to reducing regional health enterprises. This is done in relation to older people in the country when they are in line for hospitalization; it is done to drug users; there are more than 5,000 waiting for treatment, and it is done to parents who are so unhappy to have children late in the fall, so that they do not have kindergarten. Could the representative Solhjell be kind and mention some cases where SV has actually said the individual, the patient, the citizen in front of the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1072	I think that if the representative Olsen knew the internal culture of SV quite well, he wouldn't refer to him as typical collectiveist. It sometimes gets expressions that you can see outside SV or something. That being said, my view is that just putting the individual's rights and freedom at the centre is the core of the tradition of the left-hand side also in welfare policy. When we've made sure that all children in Norway have the right to a nursery place and we've built up enough nursery places for it, it's just that the individual, parents and children should have the freedom to choose a nursery place. And if you want to pick it, you actually have to have enough places to do it. The same thinking also underpins our policy in the field of education and health. Choosing when you want to get up, what you want to offer, that schools should be able to provide different services to elephants is at the heart of a good welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1079	The most important way out of poverty is work. Not least SV has been involved in pointing out that one of the main ways to work is innovation based on research and knowledge. SV has been at the rudder of research policy for six years. The representative Solhell also talked about trust and the importance of trust. We can well see that confidence in SV in the research communities has fallen as research efforts have progressed over these years. If you now look at a slightly longer perspective, does SV believe that the research policy pursued has been satisfactory for our long-term needs? Does Solhell believe that this is a good starting point for the further development of jobs in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1088	I think the government has led a very good research policy, not least if we look at the rights of research, they have been through a strong growth in the period of government. I think that in the 2009 election campaign I said in a debate that we have had a much stronger increase in the permits for research in the four-year period than in the previous four-year period under Bondevik I. Then the facts were reported to Bergen's Official Journal, and the claim was judged to be entirely true. There's been a huge growth in the research loops. Then there has also been an important grip on the content page, and a research message has been presented that points out a direction. But for the most part, fortunately, there are new challenges, important things, to tackle in the future. And if I'm going to mention one thing, it's strengthening the basic research space even more within the framework of collecting the research findings and priorities of annual work, etc. I see that as a very important challenge in the years to come, because it is an important basis for creating innovation and creativity that can create, for example, once again. business growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1095	The representative, Mr Solhell, did not mention when he spoke of the distribution message, that there are 74 000 children in what is described as long-term poverty, under a government to eliminate poverty. Now it is generally accepted that work for more people will smooth out differences, and it could reduce poverty. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Solhjell, what action he wants to take, especially in the circumstances we now have in the world, in order to create more certainty that there will be an innovation, that there will be a development of knowledge, that competitiveness will be increased. Is there any way out of this government, other than to increase the tax on those who are going to create these jobs to alleviate poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1102	That's a very important question. In key areas, just government’s business and innovation policy has contributed to a formidable growth in employment and new jobs in Norway. I'm not going to stand here and say that it's only government's merit that there's been a fantastic growth in employment in the last few years, but if there wasn't growth in the number of jobs, I'm pretty sure that the representative Fleet and others from the opposition had blamed the government for it. I think it is also linked to important parts of the policy. Firstly, a good school, kindergarten, higher education, vocational training — that is, a good foundation for knowledge throughout life. The growth in research grants is important for future value-making and industrial development, and on both of these areas we have even more to do to lay the foundation for a growth-intensive business in the future. I would also like to highlight the need for innovation, for example. making the country even smarter, giving opportunities for new growth within the industry such as telemedicine, as a care technology, where there is a great potential for development for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1110	When the president tries to use the club, it's related to the fact that there's four zeros on the clock in front of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1113	Three zeros.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1118	So it's okay to keep a little look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1121	Europe is in a critical economic situation, and the Prime Minister emphasised very clearly in his statement that it is particularly important that Norway also spends its public money on things that are right and important. And then I think that in this respect, the billion investment in Norwegian school, to which SV has been a proponent, namely to increase the number of hours in school, must be almost a scandal. So far, 2.5 billion has been used. kr for this number of hours increase, and once we have come to the elections in 2013, this amount will be 4,5 billion. kr. The researchers call the reform expensive – a little effective – one could have received further training to 4000 teachers equivalent to 30 points of study, or the representative could have met half of his promise to the students of 11 months of funding for the same money. Has the representative told the Minister for Finance that this is money that can't be documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1126	I have children in school myself, and calling an increase in the number of hours in subjects like Norwegian, math and English that we've had in the last ten years, for a scandal, I have to say, are pretty strong words to hear. More specifically, they are spoken since the Christian People's Party has been in government for four years when there was a significant increase in the number of hours in the Norwegian school – fortunately – reasonable enough, because before that decade Norway was very low compared to other countries when it was the hour, not least in central subjects such as Norwegian and mathematics. Therefore it was necessary that first the government of Bondevik adjusted it up, and that we have continued to do the same under the red-green government. So I'm going to say that I agree that in the years that come, when we've made the adjustments in the first few years, that's the other thing than increasing the number of hours that's the most central. – Now I see at the time here that I should not say anything other than ‘teachers’ until I give myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1135	He should have. But I'm still going to ask you something else. Some of us who are concerned with a more humane asylum policy, and who have seen that this government has been convicted, and that there are now also many other issues for the EMK, were very raised by the fact that one of the leading candidates in the SV, namely Heikki Holmås, wanted to take an asylum settlement in the government. That was what he did on 20 September, and we thought that we could now perhaps use the opportunity – after the rulings in the EMK – to have a new asylum policy. It took exactly two hours for Pål Lønseth at the Ministry of Justice to say that this was not a question of – one should not change the policy. This was just one thing. Is it that short engagement to SV really goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1140	The exposure to EN to a liberal integration, refugee and asylum policy lasts for a very long time, and in some important areas, such as: for children, we have made important changes in the area that have meaning for people in Norway. In other fields, the parties responsible for that policy in Norway – SV, Left, and I want to add the Christian People's Party – did not do anything about it in 2009. The sum of that is that the party that stands for a different policy than the one we're working with has a clear plurality here in Stortinget and had the same thing when we set and negotiated the government basis. So I think that just when it comes to the specific area, we get back into further discussions in the future and see if there's any need for change, and if it's possible to create multiples for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1147	Let me thank you for the first answer and confirm to the representative Solhjell that I do not know too well about the internal conditions in SV. It's probably an advantage for both Soljell and the undersigned. To his reference to the nursery agreement, which is so successful: it is. It was a settlement that was actually started in negotiations between our two parties. My follow-up question is really two-part. When Solhjell himself refers to the kindergarten agreement as very successful, with the right attachment that is there, why is then the representative Solhjell and SV oppose the right-holders in terms of the BPA scheme, the health home place, etc.? In addition, Solhjell will confirm here and now that he wants to do something, with e.g. a rolling fixation, so that parents who have children late in the fall also have the same entitlement to kindergarten space?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1156	To the last one: Once we get there that we have capacity, it's natural to look at it, as it says in the SV's program. Many municipalities are already above what is required by law today. So the question of the legal attachment of the sick home place in relation to the nursery place. I mean, there's actually two quite different things. First, it's that one knows well when the child is born, and how long it is until a right is put into effect. However, when it comes to health care, it is largely a medical question that you need to assess in a completely different way. In kindergarten and school policy, it is a goal that the most possible children should be able to go to kindergarten and school anyway. The goal of the old age policy is not that the most likely elderly should be in a nursing home, but that the most likely older should be in a situation where they can avoid the sick as long as possible, live good lives at home and get sick home when they need it. It is simply a completely different situation, which I am surprised that the Progress Party does not see itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1163	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1166	There's a line from the Eggsvollsmen in the picture behind me to us. In the picture Christie turns around and looks down at us as sitting in today's big crowd. The symbolism in the picture is: now we've laid the foundation, their task is to further manage the inheritance. We who are elected to the 156th grand, are part of a series, of something greater than just contemporaries. We manage an inheritance that binds us together as one people. Managing is not the same as preserving. It's building on the sides of society that are of the good that our ancestors have built up. After the cruel acts of terror that struck us this summer, it is important that the choices we make build on the tradition that we stand in, and that was lifted not least by the Prime Minister in the days after July 22. We are to protect the society we know, the democracy that we, for generations, have laboriously built up, and our freedom as Norwegian citizens. The debate in the last few weeks is increasingly turning towards more security and more control. This is understandable and not unexpected. But we must guard against less principleal thinking about punishment, control and monitoring. We must not, in our desire to protect the community, deprive the individual of its legal security or freedom. We can – and we should – learn how to better secure ourselves against the lonely damage. But we can never eliminate all the risks, whatever the measures, for living in a society involves trust in fellow humans, both known and alien. A democratic society can never be built on monitoring, control and fear. While our summer here at home has been marked by terrorist attacks, the world around us has been marked by a completely different type of crisis. There are dark clouds over the EU, and there are dark clouds over the world economy. The ability to take the necessary political action quickly enough is weak. When we discuss economics, it is exchange rates, interest rates and exchange rates that dominate the headings. But the consequence of a crisis is something much more important. It's about people, because the crisis hits people, and the crisis always hits those who have the least of them. The crisis we are now facing comes at a time when youth unemployment in a country like Spain is already 45 p.m. One of the EU’s main problems is that the economic crisis hit before political tools were in place to deal with it. The euro was – and is – the project of the European elite. The euro was introduced without a mandate from the people through referendums. The fundamental democratic problem in the EU now is that the crisis creates the need for more integration than is the case today. At the same time, the willingness to be integrated has never been less in the population of EU countries. In the EU, a self-enhancing system has been created, in the sense that it requires increasingly centralisation of power in order to be maintained. In the EU, power is no longer derived from the people, but from a self-enhancing system of power centralisation. Millions of Europeans are out of the labour market. Many of them have worked their whole lives. They experience great cuts in wages, well-being and pensions. It's dramatic what's happening with our closest friends. What will happen in the future is impossible to say. Only the fact that there is a real debate on the future of the euro shows what a fundamental crisis the European Union is in. We in this Chamber owe a great deal of thanks to the Norwegian people for twice resisting the pressure from the elite and the majority in this Chamber and saying no to the Union and thus no to the euro. Now — more than ever — the nation state is showing itself to be a successful political entity. Feelings of community are a prerequisite for a living democracy and the will for redistribution. The Community provides the necessary legitimacy for clear political action in times of crisis. The Eidsvollsmen wrote a constitution in which the three main principles were popular sovereignty, power distribution and human rights, such as freedom of expression and legal certainty. It is difficult at times that such principles are most under pressure, but it is also clear how important these principles are. They're as valid for us as they were for the first big one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1191	We have a local election fight behind us. I had the pleasure of running election campaigns with center party candidates in Trøndelag. On the one hand, they are more sceptical about cooperation with the socialists, and on the other hand, they are concerned about strengthening local democracy – none of this applies to the Central Party’s mainstreaming group. Not only has the red-green majority turned Børge Brende's record in the number of protected square kilometres, but there is also a new planning and building law that has transferred power to state bureaucracy. In the case of forest road construction, out-land motorcycling and the establishment of out-land cabins, more decision-making power has been left to state bureaucracy and local democracy has been weakened. Seats that have been used for centuries — and have survived both Napoleonic wars and world wars — are at risk because of state bureaucracy. Then I wonder, what action will the Central Party take in this period to further weaken local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1196	It is clear that the representative Lien has been in an election campaign. That's good, because then we get eager and good at formulating ourselves sharply and clearly. We're not going to do anything to weaken local democracy. We're going to provide a message that will clarify the relationship between the municipality and the state. Local democracy is a crucial premise for how we run Norway. I am a little surprised that the Progress Party has become so very concerned with local democracy in today's debate. Their Vice-Chairman, Per Sandberg, has been the one who has been most obviously in charge of coercion, that those out there don't understand what's best for themselves, those out there we have to coerce together so that there are bigger units, because we in the leadership of the Progress Party see better what's the best way to organize, for example. My county, Hedmark, on, than what you do yourself. The party of progress is a centralist party. Per Sandberg promised – at the latest in the election campaign – that their goal is to bring together municipalities with coercion, across the local will of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1210	Let me be crystal clear that it is not that municipalities of minimum size create the best possible local democracy. I want to challenge the representative on a very specific topic. In the last session we introduced a teaching aid. The municipalities would not be allowed to organise it themselves, the state would decide what it would be like – mainly across advice from researchers. What we know so far is that the scheme does not seem to have the effect you wanted. Could it not be a good example that the Centre Party could use to just strengthen local democracy, saying that the money should keep the municipalities to strengthen the school, but how to organise it, should the municipalities be allowed to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1217	The representative Lien probably traveled a lot around during the local election campaign and saw that there is a lot of local freedom in how to organize school life. I was, among other things, in a school in Tolga municipality where almost all teaching was done, and they managed to achieve the national learning objectives, even if it did. The centre party – and I – believe that it is absolutely right that we have some clear national targets for the Community school, and that here in the United Kingdom, we set some national standards for which school we want. Then it's up to the individual educational leader and the individual local government to discuss how to achieve the goal. But the fact that we have clear school management is important. Because we want you to have a good school, no matter where you live – in the churches, in Ilseng or in Oslo. Then there is a need for government funds and government governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1224	The right is concerned that we should have value creation and jobs across the country. Often, the districts are just sitting on the big resources we need to develop the welfare of the future. These may include energy, agriculture, aquaculture, tourism, minerals, etc. Now it's like we've recently had a local and county election. We have a number of new, very committed local politicians who are eager to catch up with the job, including the job that is about facilitating future value creation. My question is: When do you think they meet the wall – in view of the state's right of objection and the right of objection of other state authorities, preventing the local freedom of action to exploit these resources? There was no mention of it in the Common Era, but my question is: What has the Senter Party intended to do to strengthen local freedom of action in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1233	The President shall draw attention to the fact that all speeches shall be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1236	Some local politicians will probably face objections tomorrow, and it may well be that it is right too, for example. on soil protection issues. We believe that it may be wrong to build more cultivated land. It's a state priority that we're discussing here in the Storting, openly and fairly, and there may be different priorities around it. In value creation, the food industry is one of the most important industries in Norway. This is Norway's second largest industry. In connection with the agricultural situation in the spring, there was a signal to implement a tax relief for the food industry of 610 million. kr. This is the heaviest industry around the whole of Norway and a prerequisite for us to be able to use the raw materials and resources we have in our country. So we're very pleased with the budget that's being put forward on Thursday, not least in the food industry, which is a major and important industry for District Norway, and which creates a lot of jobs and a lot of nutrition around the whole of our long-range country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1243	It is reassuring for all the new local politicians that there is only peace and tolerance in the Kingdom of Norway – that there is no twig at all. I'll try to be a little bit more concrete. For the Right, local democracy is one of the most important muscles we have to have living in the whole country, that people can turn around in their own community, see what the state is, maybe come up with some good ideas about how to change things, and then have the opportunity to make a grip, agree that you would like to do it like this – without feeling overrun by central authorities too often. It's very important. State Secretary Heidi Sørensen is travelling around with a lobbying course where she teaches environmental protection organisations and other special interests how best to put chains in the wheels of municipalities that want to think too much of themselves. My question to the representative is: has the Central Party any medicine against this, since it is believed that there should be peace and deportability and muscle enough out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1252	There were a lot of elements in that line. I'll take the first element – start with the first one. The representative said that for Right municipalities are very important for business development and creation around the whole of Norway. The centre party looks at the municipalities as a tool. When it comes to business development, I think the Right should start looking at its own policy, because I think the most important thing we've done after we took over power is the road effort we've done. This year, 3535 km of new cover is added. When I've been out traveling, it's just about betting on transportation and predictable tax policy, and then next time a municipality as a server. You have to start by directing business, and we have done so not least by investing in transportation and pursuing a predictable tax policy, where there has not been any further change in one year, as it did when you had the power. For example, the forest industry in my county got three different tax regimes in one year because you had a deal with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party alternately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1260	I listened with interest to the speeches by the representative of the Battle of Vedum, in which, in the initial phase, he spoke of ‘trust’ between people, he spoke of the individual’s ‘freedom’, and he stressed in the succession that we should not sit here at the state level in Oslo and dictate how communities should organize around. However, the Central Party parliamentary leader has recently also praised a reform that was launched in the throne, with the removal of cash support, which deprives the parents of the country's two-year-olds of freedom of action and freedom of choice in their everyday lives. The centre party believes Norwegian families with two-year-olds have too much freedom of choice, too much flexibility and too much time together. The question is, what is the personal responsibility of the Central Party's political thinking? And why can't families have the freedom to set up their own everyday life as it appears around their own communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1267	This was a line I'm very happy about – I didn't get time to talk about cash support in the post. We are very proud and pleased with the targeting we are now making of the cash support. What we're doing now is strengthening the cash support for the smallest children. We're increasing it from $3300 to $5,000. We know from experience and see from the figures that it is when the child is the smallest, that most people want to use the cash support. After the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have jointly managed to achieve such a target alignment, there is a guarantee of the scheme. So the Christian People's Party should also cheer when they close the door, because by doing this, we will have a sustainable and good cash support system in the future. Now we have done three major steps in family policy: we have implemented the child hail promise; we have improved the parental leave by four weeks; and we have also introduced self-employment rights for people who are self-employed; and now we are strengthening the cash support for the smallest children. It is a very good family policy that is going to last over time, and in which the Christian People's Party belongs well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1276	The representative will also be given the opportunity to talk about industrial policy. Business policy, business policy and value creation are important for the Left, and I think that is also for the Centre Party. We've come a little way with the audit obligation gone for small companies, and reduced capital requirements are announced. That's good, and something left has worked too long. On the other hand, two other important things remain, and there is simplification and better social rights for self-employed people. Simplification has gone wrong. According to Today's Business 30 September, red-green government councils have promised the efforts of the times for simplification. My specific question to the representative is this: What concrete advice will the representative give to his government in terms of simplification and better social rights for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1285	I'm going to start with the life phase I'm in – I'm in the infant phase. The reform we carried out on the birth permit in the previous period, which gives self-employed workers the same right to benefit as workers, was a major reform that ensured exactly what the representative here called for, better social rights for self-employed workers. It's useful, and it makes young people have more flexibility in what professional choices they want to make, and we're very proud of that change. That's the first thing we've done. So I just have to repeat that the simplification that we are now doing by removing the audit obligation for small ASs is a major reform, with massive resistance on the part of many. But because the government has weighed consideration against each other and dared to trust the private ones, one now implements such simplification. These are two important grips, and then we have to look at what other types of grip we're going to do. But one of the most important things – and I know it myself as a self-employed person – is that we have a predictable tax policy. What was the point in the previous period when you had the power was that there were so many changes that it was almost impossible to adapt and plan as a self-employed person.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1297	On 22 July 2011, Norway will be a nation for a long, long time. Many lost their lives in the government quarter and Ut Island. Many people were injured, and even more were affected as victims or relatives. In addition, we suffered material damage. Many crews participated in the work during and after the attacks on the government quarter and the Utøya, and a huge effort was made at all stages. I would like to stress that it is legitimate to ask questions about how the police action and the rescue work were carried out. At the same time, it is timely also from this pulpit to give homage to those who were in action, both from professional emergency situations and other public servants, and not least to volunteers who made a formidable effort under very difficult conditions. I'm prepared to come to the Stortinget at any time to inform you about the different circumstances of these horrific events. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these attacks will be detailed in the budget proposal submitted by the Ministry of Justice now on Thursday and for actions to be implemented in the budget that will be presented. I believe that further information can also be provided in the context of the Storting's consideration of the government's proposals for the 2012 government budget and in the budget debate. Initially, I would like to remind you that, in consultation with the political parties on the Stortinget, the government has appointed a commission to review the attacks on the government quarter and the Utøya. The aim of the Commission’s work is to carry out a review and evaluation in order to draw lessons from the attacks, with a view to ensuring that Norwegian society is best equipped to avert and face possible future attacks, while preserving key values in Norway. I am concerned that we get facts and learn lessons from the experience that has been gained. We have to bear in mind that critical questions are being asked. This helps us to prevent better, to strengthen preparedness for terrorism and to prepare for a broad and close social security work. I am also pleased that the police director has decided to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the police's handling of the attacks, while Chief PST has decided to carry out the evaluation of PST's work both before and after 22 July 2011 and has established two working groups for this work. This is material that is made available both to the Commission and to the EOS Committee. The government has as one of its most important tasks to fight all threats to our democracy and ensure the security of the population. The PST and the other police are key actors in ensuring the security of the nation and its population. Much has been done by this government as well as by previous governments to strengthen the preparedness work also before July 22. The government is committed to having a security service and a police force that works specifically to prevent and avert such cruel acts. The fight against terrorism is a continuous process. The threat images are changing. I would already like to inform you that it has been taken to strengthen preparedness. We are not waiting for the Commission's conclusions, and the work started will be followed up by the government before the Commission's work is completed and the evaluations to the police and the PST are available. Several organisational changes have been implemented in recent years to strengthen social security work, including: through the establishment of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness in 2003 and by providing the National Safety Authority with a professional reporting line to the Ministry of Justice. The Government also established the Emergency Communications Directorate in 2007. Arguing governments have strengthened the PST both financially and manpowerly in order to deal with more complex issues, among others. related to terrorism. Since the government of Stoltenberg joined the PST in 2005, the nominal increase of 61 pst., from 240 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 386 million. kr in 2011. In the revised 2011 national budget, PST was reinforced by a further 5.3 million. kr, e.g. for research and testing capacity as well as for necessary investments. In addition, the government proposes to increase the appropriations for the PST by a further 21.9 million. kr in 2011, and the appropriations will also be proposed for the next year in the context of the State budget. PST depends entirely on close and trusting cooperation with other actors, both nationally and internationally, in order to succeed. I agree with the parliamentary leader in the Right that we need all the transparency we can, in relation to the situation of the PST. There is also a background to the government's choice to be open in recent years, both in terms of the budget and the number of employees and also in terms of providing open annual threat assessments. In December 2010, the government presented the ‘Common Security — Joint Responsibility’ action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. Those who claim that there is no plan-making on this are wrong. The plan is based on four main areas of action which are also considered to be very relevant areas of international concern: increased knowledge and information; strengthening the interaction of authorities; strengthening dialogue and increased involvement and support for vulnerable and vulnerable persons. So this was in December 2010. Prevention is essential to prevent first, before violent extreme attitudes become actions. The budgets of the police and prosecution authorities have increased from about 8.2 billion. kr in the 2005 balance to about 12 billion. kr in the 2011 balanced budget. I welcome the President of the Right in his main speech that we should turn the debate to, among other things. to look at: what is the actual resource need, how to use, among other things. this budget increase over the last few years, at 50 pst.? That is a debate I welcome. The Ministry of Justice has been given a coordinating role to ensure a coherent and coordinated preparedness. Central crisis management has been strengthened by clarifying and clarifying the responsibilities for crisis management in the Ministry of leadership, strengthening crisis coordination through the establishment of the Government Crisis Council and the establishment of a crisis support unit. The Ministry of Justice has further started work on the adaptation and conversion of civil protection. We have proposed, in our own proposal, to increase the appropriation for investment in civil defence equipment by 30 million. kr now this year. Experience from the Ministry of Justice's oversight of the departments of the civil sector shows that exercises are an important element of our crisis management capability. We also want to give a high level of attention to civil exercises in the future. I also recall in the assessment of the emergency work that we have now proposed by the government to go to the acquisition of up to 16 new modern all-weather search and rescue helicopters. There is a significant investment in rescue and preparedness in Norway. The Ministry of Justice has the overall responsibility for the establishment of a new digital radio connection to the emergency and emergency seat. This has also been a discussion in the cold water of 22 July. The development of emergency networks, which are part of the critical infrastructure of society throughout the country, is a significant contribution to increasing social security. Therefore, on 9 June 2011, Stortinget decided to extend emergency networks to the whole of mainland Norway. It is a good example that preparedness is a continuous process. This emergency network will provide the emergency and emergency seat in Norway with a new and modern radio connection both in their daily work for the public and in the event of major accidents and crises, and is a billion-dollar effort to strengthen our preparedness. I have, together with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Health and Care, started a work on reviewing the guidelines to be used by the Central Rescue Agency when assessing the police's request for assistance from the rescue helicopters. I am also pleased to announce that there is a military helicopter standby with Bell 412 helicopters at the Rygge Air Station, which can provide administrative transport assistance to the police upon request. I am humble to the work that has been done in dealing with the attacks on 22 July. At the same time, I'm open to learning from the experiences we've had. The attacks will have an impact on the prevention and combating of terrorism in particular, and will strengthen social security in general, in the future. I am concerned that work on crisis management is broadly anchored across disciplines, in order to make the best use of resources available at all times. We are as people have been subjected to dramatic, cruel and extreme actions at the extreme of what several of us could imagine. A lot of people are hurting. The Government will contribute to a constructive political debate in the wake of 22 July. All the games in Stortinget have contributed well after the events to ensure a follow-up that benefits us all. That's how we make sure that those who are hit get the support they need. This is how we ensure that the principles of the rule of law continue to underpin criminal proceedings. This is how we ensure that we can continue to improve and strengthen preparedness. All the parties in Stortinget provided a good basis for such work this summer, among other things. when the independent Commission was appointed. Terrorists are not going to win over us. Therefore, the debate after 22 July will contribute to more democracy, more transparency and not naivety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1346	After all, we have all followed developments from day to day. We've also seen one disclosure after another become visible. But we knew in the years before July 22 that there were weaknesses in management, weaknesses in preparedness, weaknesses in interaction and weaknesses in resource use. And we've seen that it also failed in many areas on July 22nd. Why, then, does it have to be a disaster before we really get to grips with it? Why weren't we ready? On July 22, it was almost as if we were sending soldiers to Afghanistan with peacocks. I want to say that the time has come to start with blank sheets and new trust. I think Norway also needs a new Council of States. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1355	I am not going to discuss my further professional career in this line change. It's up to other people to decide. And I would very much like to warn against a political debate that contributes, at least in terms of political instruments and decisions we are making, that we are going to start again. It would be very sad, too much done on the emergency side. I mentioned in my post that we have therefore chosen to strengthen, for example. PST with nearly 60 pst. during the time we have been in government. There is something I don't want to start over with. The work done against being able to monitor, to contribute to a methodology, so that they can be identified as having just such thoughts that we were struck by, to now start to reverse the process that has been done in a good way at my discretion, among other things. in the case of emergency network deployment – no. Emergency response is a continuous process, depending on, for example: The threat we are under at all times. We're not going to start that again, but we're going to develop and improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1362	The police have been given increased appropriations in the years since this government came into existence, and it boasts of Storberget uninhibited. This means that both PST and Kripos have received their increased appropriations. But it is also the case that the police's duties have increased considerably, and there have been quite different tasks, both for the police and for the PST. Now, after July 22nd, the government suddenly allocated additional financial resources to the police, and especially to the PST and the emergency team. In this context, I would like to ask the Council of State if it has examples of concrete measures to improve preparedness in Norway. Or is it just increased funds that are the recipe of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1369	I'm very happy to have such a question, mainly because the debate on the number of dollars may seem reasonably abstract. But it is now clear that the Storting has gathered about significantly increased resources for the police investigation over the last few years. However, there are many other steps that need to be taken. Therefore, I would like to highlight in particular the prevention plan presented last year, which contains just a lot of what is needed to monitor and avert early use. A third element, which is not about money, at least not as much as the number of posts and their equivalent, is to provide the police with sufficient methodology to map, among other things. co-players. There is a crucial element in the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. I register that when I am challenged by the Advance Party to bring things other than money, it may be in the field where the Advance Party voted against, that is, to give the police sufficient methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1379	The July 22 Commission can provide us with some answers, in particular related to the questions of response, preparedness and coordination in a crisis situation – and perhaps also about mistakes and deficiencies we have had in preparing for it. But this will always be a commission based on a single event and on individual matters. That means it's necessary to look beyond that. That is why we have challenged the government on two essential basic documents that should be in the field of justice. First of all, there is a broad police study on defence studies, which addresses the technological developments of the police, and also has a clear and clear staffing plan. We're going to promote that again in Stortinget, and I want to see the government now give a response, and say yes to it. The second is to get a review of PST's actual capabilities. There has been a topic in Stortinget several times lately, before July 22. The size doesn't know what PST has access to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1386	As I said in my main post, I'm open to discussing just these questions, especially because we've been notified by the government that next year we're going to make a big announcement about the police situation, what we've called a result reform. In that work, there is also a need for preparatory work and analyses that are bordering on the Right Leader. This applies in particular to operational analysis, but also to the issue of the manning situation. That is a crew report. We have created a crew plan, a crew report, which will be a central tool in the development of the police in the future. It is clear that the appropriations have increased considerably, the admission to the Police College has increased considerably, and we are fortunately now having a 95 pst. employment of the new students from the previous year's coal. But I'm open to discussing how, in particular, in the reporting work, we can take care of the concerns that the Right wants, which are just about analysing the situation of both the PSTs and the general police.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1393	The humility of the councils in yesterday's Evening Post was considerate of the victims after July 22. That was right, and that was good. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to make good wishes and wish happiness to the Council of State and his department, which has been, and still is, heavily affected. At the same time, we must look forward to the debate on the responsibility of the Council of State in the evening post of yesterday. The right has intended to contribute constructively, but critically. But the assumption is that the Storting is more involved. We need to get a better overview of what PST has and doesn't have of roles problems. In particular, we must have a press police force that does not balance its budgets against ICT investment. It is a shared responsibility for all of us to ensure that the weaknesses that have been pointed out earlier do not repeat themselves. In this debate, a key issue is the relationship between defence and justice. Will the Council of State take the initiative in a renewed debate on the relationship between defence and justice without the foundation of – I was saying – mental barriers, so that there can be better interaction than what has now been seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1402	As the Prime Minister also pointed out in his main post today: this is a particularly important issue in emergency response work in Norway. The relationship between defence and police, civil and military in this type of crisis situation is a debate we never have to finish. Then I want to express – and I believe that is also an inheritance from the previous government – that you actually helped to do good work, so that the interaction between defense and police works better than it would have done before. And, among other things, we've placed liasons with each other in this kind of situation, and we know from experience, also from July 22, that it was useful. We are planning next year to present a social security message to the Stortinget, and I know that the Minister of Defence is planning a long-term plan. It is quite natural when you see these two documents separately, but also together, that you get the debate that the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1411	First, I would like to take the opportunity from this pulpit, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, to commend the Minister of Justice. Because when the country was in shock, in crisis and in grief, the Minister of Justice stood up in a good way. But the attacks on July 22 hit the whole people. Large resources are required, including: in the investigation of the case. It's important that it gets researched thoroughly and well. At the same time, it poses major challenges for the police — especially the Oslo Police. One knows that if one is going to be able to investigate the other issues – everyday crime – the police have not enough resources today. That is why the Christian People's Party expects the budget presented on Thursday to contain a big boost for the police. But I want to challenge the Minister of Justice for something else. That's: why can't he bring more resources to the police now, so that one doesn't put away relatively simple issues that should have been investigated and solved by the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1418	There's some lines we're happier for than others. This line change has a good development, because when it comes to the question of money for the police, that's actually what we've done: we chose to say immediately to signal, among other things. to the Oslo police district that there was an opportunity to recruit 95 new police officers — a significant increase for the Oslo police district. We aim to continue that effort as long as the huge investigation takes place, so that you get compensated in. But I want to remind you that this is not just about money. It's all about investigative competence, which we have limitations on. But we do what we can, and up against the resource situation for Oslo, that's how you've been compensated. It is absolutely essential to be able to resolve this matter, as I believe the prosecution authority has suggested, in a decent, defined, good way that helps us to handle such a serious criminal case – within the pretexts of the state of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1423	I want to start by stressing how happy I am that the Minister of Justice will have the most openness possible, and I hope he can hold on to it throughout the process. It is also important not to take legal action until you have cleared your mind after the event. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice stresses the importance of exercises, which I think is a key to being able to prepare for even the unmistakable. However, in the open threat assessment provided by PST, as the Minister of Justice pointed out, it is black and white that attacks from far-right environments against Norway are not expected in 2011. We still experienced that. My question is, have we taken the far right environments seriously enough, have we had enough consciousness around them? I have gone back and read the debates in Stortinget, and they have not dealt with the threat that exists from the other political extremes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1432	All of them first: I'm very happy that the Left also records that we contribute to transparency in terms of PST. Just since the government shift in 2005, we have chosen to publish the budgets – an important principle of transparency – the number of employees and these threat assessments that enable us to have the critical discussion after such an event. And I'm going to be the last one in this room that claims that all the threat assessments that come from the PST will cover all the events. That's what's the challenge in this work. But I want to say that in their threat assessments, the PST has been particularly focused on solo terrorism, so that one has to distinguish it from the remote-right environments described in the threat reports. I believe that both must be taken seriously. Norway has taken the right extreme seriously at the end of the 1990s and early 2000s and has had good experience with it. It must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1440	Let me first do something that I don't always do, and also promise not to do so often – at least not as long as we have this government – namely to boast a little of the government. It is in the throne speech that a separate drug report has been notified, and that is what I and the Progress Party believe is both joyous and not least necessary. The Progress Party has promoted in this Chamber a comprehensive document containing more than 50 concrete proposals for improvements in rural development in Norway. So I would like to inform you that we will, of course, meet the notified message in a constructive way. A broad political majority should be the objective in this area, and so my signal is that such a wish already has the Progress Party. It is also probably expected that I will present a complaint song about everything that does not work in the Norwegian health service, and I think, of course, it is also important not to disappoint when there are such expectations. But let me also stress that the Norwegian healthcare system is actually very, very good, yes, among the best in the world. There it works hard-working and not least dedicated people. Human beings are treated, and – not least – lives are saved every day. But there are also those who are not getting help, employees who work their shirt off without feeling that they are being heard or appreciated. This is also important to focus on and work to improve. Here we all have a job to do. On that occasion, I would like to make something that is perhaps a surprise — or that would not be a surprise, if I did not think there was room for major improvements in health policy in Norway. In my opinion, the conversion processes are out of control. Cancellations, closures of local hospitals, closures of maternity wards, cut-offs in patient treatment and increasing uncertainty among the many employees of several health care establishments make it necessary to warn of significant fights in the state budget if the government does not take large and necessary action. I have the impression that a necessary conversion, which everyone agrees on, is used as a mantra for redundancy and degradation in the healthcare system. When Oslo University Hospital announces possible redundancies of the order of seven employees per day – 700 in total in a short time – this is not only because patients have moved over as corridor Asians at Aarhus. In fact, there are many of us who do not belong to Ahus, who are customers in the Rikshospitalet, and who feel that the offer is being reduced or removed in the process that is now taking place. If the good news is there's 300 million coming. kr to the conversion in Oslo University Hospital, I'm actually worried. Firstly, this would not be very close enough to the ongoing process at the Oslo hospitals. Secondly, the other health regions also face major migration and change challenges. Therefore, the Progress Party will already announce that we are expecting a larger conversion pot that will also have to be distributed according to the normal allocation keys of all health businesses. It would have been interesting to ask the government the question, if the Oslo hospitals are going to get $300 million. In order to get through a difficult process of conversion, do not the hospitals in the rest of the country also deserve very much needed resources to get through the difficult processes, which they also face? Or is it that the money goes to the hospitals where the media makes most newscasts about the unsustainable situation? The second major issue in the context of the State budget to be presented is whether the implementation of the Interaction Reform is being carried out in an acceptable manner. The signals so far indicate both underfinancing and too little time. I therefore fear the consequences of the reform in relation to both geographical and economic health differences. Unfortunately, my travels in the campaign have only reinforced this picture. I am afraid that the leftover impression after this reform can make the Nav reform appear to be both successful and elegantly implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1463	I'm going to get to the point, but I just want to make it clear first that the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party is not disappointed. The representative, after a fresh head count, spent less than 15 seconds praising the Norwegian health care system, and the rest of the post on everything that was hurt and dark and miserable, in good progressing party spirit. I want to bottom up on one question that I wonder if Per Arne Olsen can help bring clarity to. I have seen that the Progress Party, after its miserable election results, has tried to explain and analyse the result by saying that the voters want it safe, they applied to the security parties of the Workers' Party and the Right, and that it could be one of the reasons why the Progress Party went wrong. Does not the representative Olsen think that another reason could be that the voters are just looking tired of the black paint of public health and other services, tired of unilateral mass liberalisation and privatisation in every context, and say no to an economically irresponsible policy that the country does not need in serious times?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1470	I think that the analysis of the election result, as the Micasen put it here, might have to be on his own account. At least I have said the whole time after the election that we will probably wait a little – both those who have won the election, and those of us who have lost the election – that we will come to some great conclusion as to what was the motivation of this election. But I'm of the opinion that the Advance Party does not paint black. Unfortunately, when the waiting lists of Norwegian hospitals after six years with this government have increased by 80,000 real people in line when almost 5 000 drug users, who are motivated for treatment, are not offered when the rehabilitation service in this country is being built up, because it is largely run by private people, when there are still major geographical challenges and health differences in Norway, we are not black painters. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1477	This will be completely ripped from the disc. The representative, Olsen, could have chosen to focus on the fact that waiting times in Norwegian hospitals for the first time are reaching out and going down, or that more patients are being treated in Norwegian hospitals than ever. Although we have increased the use of money in Norwegian hospitals and also want to contribute to change, new forms of treatment – the fact that people live much longer now than just a short time ago – contribute to the fact that some people with some other disorders have to wait a few more days. But the Advance Party chooses completely unilaterally to ignore it. I believe that when the election result is to be analyzed in the management of the Progress Party, one is that the answers are that people are sorry about this one-sided black paint. Finally, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Olsen, whether he agrees with the outgoing rapporteur, Mr Karlsen, in Nordreisa, who says that he is in spite of the party programme in his municipality, because vital services in the municipality would be lost. Does the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party think that there is a good analysis of the election results for some parts of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1484	Let me first address what the representative Micaelsen first said. I actually used the beginning of my post to decorate the Norwegian health service. I'm not quite sure that the number of seconds that have been calculated is what's the main point. My point is that I wanted to brag first. Human lives are saved every day. Not least, there are hard-working people in the Norwegian health care system, all of whom we should appreciate really working there. It is important for the Progress Party to have it as a background. The representative Mikalsen now says that someone has to wait longer. Some are actually 80,000 more people of meat and blood on the waiting list. Some of them are longer than ever. Yes, it's joyous when this number surfaces out. But that does not change the fact that we all – also signed and the representative Micaelsen – have a responsibility to help the 80 000The right figure is going to be 280 000. There are people who want to get back to work. There are people who are just waiting for a simple operation to be able to contribute again to society. If we're not going to be able to focus on it, we can never get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1494	If you want a better health care system, you might not want to go into tax relief at the same time, 50, 60, 70, or 80 or 90 billion. kr – which will also mainly go to those who already have a lot in society – or add to large-scale commercial privatisation of Norwegian hospitals, or add to even greater use of tenders and more actors, such as Adecco, which we have seen in Norwegian hospitals. One of the things we really need to do in the future is to make sure that our hospitals are attractive jobs. Then it is to give people good working conditions, not to attack their pensions, to make sure they know that they also have a job tomorrow, and that their employers are not suddenly replaced, which becomes important. Does the representative agree with me on any of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1499	The undersigned does not agree with Thorkildsen in much of this life, nor today. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is room for tax relief in Norwegian society. In the three years that we've spent behind us, even in the year that we had a financial crisis in Norway, the state's tax revenues increased. There's something that SV doesn't take over. In fact, I believe that there is room in Norway both to improve the offer we have, and at the same time to provide tax relief to create a basis for new growth, create new jobs and once again have an optimism in the country for the many who are out of work. The progress party does not want to commercialise the Norwegian hospital system. The representative of Thorkildsen is well aware of our principal starting point, which is to ensure a good welfare offer and a health care for everyone, paid by the state, where you can choose the available capacity yourself, whether it is in public or private hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1506	When I listened to my good co-representative, it was difficult not to take a line, for the representative of the Progress Party spoke about a drug reaction at the beginning of his post. One of the most important things in drug policy is to dry up political choices in relation to restrictions. Norwegian alcohol policy is a success story as we are low in Europe’s consumption context. Usually, the Progress Party tends to refer to the Police Joint Union, the police's needs, and that the government does not listen enough to the police. The police have been very clear in one matter: they want a reduction in the time of the gift. With the representative's commitment to Russia and the clear advice of the police, I see it as illogical that the Progress Party should, if necessary, oppose it. How can the representative then explain that the Progress Party is going to go against a restriction – because I know they will – when so many are hit by longer give-times, such as. Here in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1511	It is actually true when I said in my post that I am pleased that the government has notified a drug reaction. It is also true that the Progress Party has presented its own Document No. 8 proposals with more than 50 concrete proposals on how to improve care in Norway. If the representative Vedum and his party had been genuinely concerned not only with the length of time spent in the individual Norwegian municipalities, they would actually have chosen to go along with these proposals, which contained a number of good diversified proposals. Then the representative Vedum is quite right in saying that the Progress Party, unlike the Center Party, has a genuine desire and belief in local self-government. We want and believe that local politicians in Norwegian municipal governments will be able to decide for themselves what opening hours to have within the framework set by Stortinget. This means that we can get municipalities that have restrictive practices, and some that have more liberal practices. It's local democracy, and we're followers of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1518	I am pleased that the representative Per Arne Olsen is looking forward to the Russorgsmeldung. It'll be an important work. But I also want to address the problem of the gift issue. The police have been crystal clear in their advice: if we reduce the yield, it becomes less powerful. We also know that Sirus presented a unique documentation. But in the election campaign I met Per Sandberg, and he said: I can refer to 50 municipalities that have expanded the hamlet time and had reduced power. And when you stand on Dagsrevyen – Klin sober – and say it, you have to be able to document it, but it has not happened from the Progress Party afterwards. Per Arne Olsen might know better about Kommune-Noreg than Per Sandberg does: Is there a single example of a municipality that has expanded the skenketida and reduced the power?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1527	It was said by another co-representative from this hall earlier, during a post that was held from the pulpit after some acevits, that he had no problem with that happening, but what some got to say sober in this hall! I'm not going to stand here and name municipalities, but I know about municipalities, including my own, which have had a liberal guess policy, which has had good control of the violence situation, and where a test project was carried out with a reduction of turnout time – without visible effects. Now there's been a new trial period, where you can see hints to the opposite. I also know about municipalities that have said that they have not had the desired effect of the reduction. I'm going to promise the representative Hareide that we're looking at this with an open mind, but at the bottom is actually the firm belief of the Progress Party that local democracy also works in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1536	I am from the same county as the representative Olsen, and the police's recommendation is at least clear, and it is that we should reduce the turnip time. I have another question that is quite different: the leaders of the party are now shouting, according to the media, after resuming immigration policy. We also heard Siv Jensen touch this in his post. I'm a little excited about what this means, and about what it means when Siv Jensen says that there's never been a greater need for the immigration and asylum policy of the Progress Party than right now, because this becomes important for what tone we get in this debate in the future. Then my question to the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party is whether to change the tone, whether to be more despicable in these debates, to stop using terms such as ‘cross-train’, to compare Nazism and Islam, and to talk about snail-slaming with the aim of creating greater population insecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1546	I can emphatically state that the refugee and asylum policy of the Progress Party is clearly established. We want a strict and fair refugee and asylum policy. We want to receive a number for this country that allows us to integrate them into Norwegian society. We believe that the number is an important part of achieving successful integration. I even come from a municipality where we had very good results, precisely because we said we wouldn't accept more than what we actually feel we can integrate. We did it. We have very good results, both in relation to the school we ran on behalf of several municipalities, and in relation to getting many back to work. The refugee and asylum policy of the Progress Party is clearly firm. We haven't changed anything, and we're not going to do it in the future either, and in my opinion we've been exasperating all along in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1556	While the rest of Europe is trembling as a result of indebted countries, in Norway, the value of new oil discoveries on Avaldsnes/Aldous is estimated to be equivalent to half an oil fund. This gives the impression that we have had fun and now get extra money. It's completely wrong. We haven't had any luck, we don't get any extra money. These are oil reserves and revenues that we've already figured on when we look at the long-term expenses and revenues, and they only form part of the petroleum resources that need to be available to secure them. It's not funny either. It's a result of increased knowledge and new technologies. In 1971 one foot from this was found, but with the knowledge and technology of that time we did not find the oil. The question is not first and foremost how much petroleum resources are on the Norwegian base, but whether we can develop new knowledge and technology to extract as much as possible. The more mature the Norwegian base becomes, the more efforts in terms of research, development and knowledge need to be made for each barrel of oil. It is knowledge and people's work that secures our well-being – not luck or fund. Therefore, we need to use our financial autonomy now to research more, gain more knowledge in school, more robust infrastructure and better conditions for the workplace. The right is happy in the Norwegian welfare community. If it is to be preserved and further developed, we must invest more in knowledge and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. Although the Norwegian State is in the face of a new financial crisis, Norwegian jobs are not safe in response to reduced demand from Europe. Six years of red-green policy have weakened our competitiveness. This is not black paint, it keeps reading the World Bank's Doing Business. The government has increased the burden on Norwegian companies to go out and compete. It's been fine in good times. Now, owners have to take out money from companies that could help secure jobs in difficult times, in order to pay a strange wealth tax, which has doubled over the last six years. The right believes it is more right now than ever to remove this additional burden on Norwegian jobs, so that we can get out of the crisis. Good and robust jobs ensure growth and ensure well-being. If we invest in more knowledge, better infrastructure and reduce the burden on businesses, we create more growth. We guarantee well-being by creating more, not by taxing more. Although the money finances well-being, it is not the money that provides well-being. It's people who provide well-being. We live longer, and the large children's councils after the war now reach an age of increasing need for care and care. Silver-coloured hair and silver-coloured car are going to be the most common in our streets. Those who describe today's offers based on the needs of the future come with pessimistic descriptions of a welfare society that breaks together with its own weight, reduced quality, and where most people have to work in care. I think that the silver generation is going to face old age safely. But it assumes that we guarantee the quality of care, use freedom of choice and use all good forces. Increased knowledge and competence ensure the quality of nursing care, that proper treatment is given for the first time, and that good young people want to work in the care sector. Therefore, the Right will impose stricter requirements of competence on those who are to become nurses, allow employees to continue their training and impose requirements for competence in the municipal health and care sector. New technology will make us more independent and more self-held, and facilitate the job of employees. Therefore, the Right will focus on research and development of care technologies. A public service monopoly is not the answer to future challenges. Volunteers, non-profits and private people need to be free to help solve these problems. Then the tasks will be solved in new ways, and people will have freedom of choice. While the Labour Party refers to the appeal court, the Right will impose the exchange right. We believe that welfare with freedom of choice gives dignity. For the Right, the answer to how to pay for well-being and how to solve well-being is the same: security through knowledge and competence. Mr. Øyvind Korsberg had taken over the President's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1584	The right-hand side sees itself as a decent party. But what's this right-hand propensity now? In Bergen and many other places, the election campaign made it clear that there was a choice to reduce or eliminate the property tax. So the Right Town Council only presents an economic plan days after the election, where you're not going to do anything about property taxes. Is this what you think is a decent treatment of voters? Norway’s modern success can largely be attributed to our way of solving the challenges. Here, tripartite cooperation is an important pillar. Monica Mæland affirmed on 1 September that everything that LO is against is Right-wing. Is this what the Right believes is a decent employment policy? And where is the propensity of the Right Alternative Budget for the current year, when you want to give you 3 million. NOK 60 000 in tax bill, while one who earns NOK 150 000 will receive NOK 300 – that is, 200 times more tax bill for the richest. Is that what the Right believes is a decent distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1593	I think the Labour Party takes on a big task if it has the ambition to try to represent the Right as an indecent party, but I want the job to be successful. What one here addresses with the issue of property taxes, which then goes into the calculation of the Breen account, is that Norwegian owners of Norwegian jobs have to pay a strange wealth tax, which fortunately now the head of the LO also agrees with the Right to have to go away. He has refuted Monica Mæland's claim in today's business. He sees the same thing as the Right, that in the case of jobs owned locally along the whole coast and throughout the country, those who own the job go to the same store as those who work in the company, and have kids in the same sport as those who work in the company. It provides a completely different security to take care of the workplace even in difficult times. That's why it's more right now than ever to remove the strange wealth tax, now that you're moving towards difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1600	It is recorded that today, LO leader Flöthen says that if you want to do this, you have to cover the lost proceeds in other ways, and you also have to maintain the distribution profile that the property tax has today. Therefore, there are many miles of differences in what the Right has promoted in its alternative budget for the current year, and the Roar Flöthen talks about. Then I will again challenge the propriety of the distribution policy that the Right leads, that one that has 3 million. kr in income, gets NOK 60000 in tax bills, while one who has NOK 150000 in income gets NOK 300 – i.e. 200 times more tax bills to the richest. Does the representative Höie think that this is a decent policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1607	What determines whether you are rich or poor in Norway is whether you have a job to do. As far as those who are long-term outside the labour market in Norway are concerned, despite the many build-ups of the welfare state that we have had in Norway, one cannot prevent them from experiencing a completely different economic situation from that of the social partners. Therefore, the most important contribution we can make in the Norwegian society to combating poverty is to secure Norwegian jobs. The answer is not to have a strange tax on the ownership and development of jobs in Norway. It's actually the opposite that's going to happen, and it's also luckily seen by the LO leader. And so the Right disagrees with him that it's going to correspond to that we're taxing having a dwelling in Norway. Here Norway differs from all the other countries to which he compares us, namely that in Norway it is common to own their own home. That's the policy that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have actually come together throughout the post-war period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1614	I want to address the issue of climate change. The right-wing manager said instead that SV should keep an eye on greenhouse gas emissions, as long as we have not submitted a proposal. But my and SV's response to this will be that the Right could vote for the proposals that we have actually already submitted pending the climate announcement that will come. We have made several proposals to prevent Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions from increasing and reducing the emissions we already have – and the Right has consistently voted against. This concerns the question of the purification of gas power plants. This concerns the issue of restrictive measures against car traffic. This applies to the issue of oil drilling in the north, and then not to start oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. All of these proposals have been opposed to the right. In addition, initiatives have been taken to oppose electrification, even where it will not be so expensive. What can this get off of?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1619	I note that the SV in climate policy today is leading the tactics “attack is the best defense” precisely to prevent getting focus on what is the big problem, namely that the government is shifting and shifting a climate message that Storting has agreed that we need. The climate notification shall be the basis for the knowledge that Stortinget and Norway can progress in combating climate emissions. This is not a problem that can be taken in pieces and divided, but that has to be taken in whole. It may not be that any action that reduces climate emissions is perceived as good, because many of them are measures that only work in the short term but do not have the good effect in the long term. Here we have to think completely, and therefore it is the government's responsibility to come back to the Stortinget with a decision-making basis that can actually enable us to move on with the climate agreement, where the Right was a driver in the same direction as the SV, namely that Norway should go ahead with reducing climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1624	I almost thought that the Right must recognise that it is reasonable that they must answer for their own proposals and their own policies in the field of climate, and not push it further, so let me challenge it further. In the World Energy Outlook International Energy Agency, they estimate that if we are to reach the 2-degree target, we need to reach the fossil energy consumption peak by 2020. They also estimate that we have to go from 65 pst. fossil part of less than 30 pst. in 2035. In reality, it means that quite a lot of oil, gas and coal have to lie down because we have a lot of known occurrences – not least – of coal. Then one might think that Norway is going to continue its production. But at least it's a bit demanding to ask China and Russia – or for that matter, Ghana, who put in its first oil field last year – that because we in Norway need to produce everything we have, they have to leave. My challenge is: when the representative Höie tells us not to electrify, we are going to build gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, and we are going to reinterpret the climate agreement, how does Right mean we're going to take the reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1635	What one also gets in the figures that Bård Vegar Solhjell refers to is that fossil fuels are going to be an essential part of the world's energy needs in the foreseeable future. It will be very unwise not to extract fossil energy in Norway, where we do it in the most environmentally friendly and safe way, in order to leave it to countries that extract fossil energy in a more polluting way with less safety requirements than we have here to land. In addition, SV should ask itself the question, because in the government's kerosene message on page 50 – when one sees the description given there of petroleum resources to be extracted in Norway up to 2040 – both the findings that are now are significantly greater, and not least it will require the opening of the Lofoten and the Vesterål, if one is to reach the path of the government itself in the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1640	The right is very happy to present themselves as a friend to business, and in the election campaign they travel around the country and the beach and visit businesses and tell about their right-wing business policy. But what's not good to talk about is the travel agencies that many of these companies have used to get started, whether they're municipal food funds or regional development funds – an instrument that Right is proposing to cut dramatically. In my county are examples of businesses like Moods of Norway, which should be known to most, Old Water and other amazing businesses that have been helped in a start-up phase, which didn't have money there and then, when they needed them, but that have paid back the money many times through the value they stand for. My question is simply: why is it so important for the Right to remove this hood? Does the Right not see that such risk capital may be important in a start-up phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1647	When the Right travels around the campaign and meets small businesses around the country, it's not primarily to talk, it's primarily to listen. What we hear very little is a cry for more municipal food funds. What we hear a lot is that there's a strong need to invest in infrastructure and roads -- build better roads, not least in District Norway, so that the growth power reaches out completely, and that people can stay where they want to live. We hear a strong demand to remove the strange tax on holdings locally, which is not least a very severe blow in the districts, where they have no alternative use, for example. buildings on which property taxes are paid. It is quite right that some people also want help from Innovation Norway, from various public instruments. But it is not that the Right in its alternative state budget removes all of these – we take some of the money and prioritise what business itself prioritises, namely better infrastructure and reduced taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1654	The representative, Höie, has talked a lot about the removal of wealth taxes and taxes, and I guess he actually expressed the fact that most of this red-green government has done in relation to business, was wrong. This is difficult to do with the fact that we have very low unemployment. It's going well, business is going very well, but the turmoil is not least about how the European economy goes on. We can be happy that we are not in the same situation as Greece and other European countries are in. So my question to the Right and Höie is: is it still the case that the Right believes that EU and euro connections are the most important means of securing Norwegian business in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1661	Euro-linking and EU membership are not the most important means of securing Norwegian business in the future, as Norway is largely a member of the EU in terms of financial instruments relating to access to the market and economic policy. So the most important thing to ensure Norwegian business in the future is to make it possible to establish and operate business in Norway. Then it is very alarming that the competitiveness has been weakened in the six years we have had a red-green government. This makes it more difficult for Norwegian businesses now when entering tougher times. Because even though we can be happy that we have been housekeepers with government finances in such a way that we are not in the same situation as some countries in Europe, it is still that the policy that governments have pursued towards business makes many of our businesses not equipped to meet the failing demand from Europe that is now coming. It does not help that the country is bundled if the company has had to use its equity to pay property taxes to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1669	The terrorist actions of July 22 shake us all. Our good Prime Minister said this in this room on August 3rd: «The map was blown, the compass shot in fillets. But the Norwegian people found out." [[...]] We have gained values through growth that made it as darkest, we chose not hate and home, but heart layers and warmth. We in the Christian People's Party believe it is important that future generations get these values forward. We want to say, as the new point of purpose in the school says, that: ‘training shall be based on fundamental values of Christian, humanistic heritage and tradition, such as respect for human dignity and nature, on freedom of the spirit, love, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity’. I think it was just these values he thought about and understood the importance of, he who had experienced and survived the Holocaust, and who wrote the thought-provoking letter after 1945: ‘Dear Teacher! I'm a survivor from a concentration camp. I saw what no man should be witnessing: gas chambers built of skilled engineers. Children gas in the heels of well-trained doctors. Infants killed by experienced nurses. Women and their babies shot and burned by people with exams from high school and university. I've become skeptical of education. My prayer is: Help your students to become human. Your work must never produce learned monsters, skilled psychopaths, well-trained oakmen. Reading, writing and billing are important only if it serves to make our children more human." The shotguns that were fired off on the island told us that the axis of evil is not a place far away, but inside the human mind. What happened has happened before. It can happen again, unfortunately. But it's our job to prevent that from happening. Therefore, preparedness is important, but value sharing is also important. That's our biggest challenge after July 22. I would also like to say something in this brief introduction about what I miss strongly in the languages of the throne. More than 70,000 children live with current poverty in Norway. Compared to the three-year period 2004–06, there are 6,500 more children now living in poverty. A working life that includes everyone is the best way to fight poverty. Good welfare schemes and a socially responsible tax system contribute to relatively limited income differences in Norway compared to many other countries, but this alone does not solve the poverty challenge. Better and more targeted action is needed, and public efforts to improve the life situation of many individuals need to be improved. Measures for the protection of income and labour rights, better living conditions and measures for the social inclusion of children and young people are important areas for consideration. The government has succeeded relatively well in the day-to-day operation of the country. The oil country of Norway sails so far safely through economic turbulent waters. What's missing is a clearer course on some areas. I mean poverty is one of them. Another is climate policy. On 16 January 2008, the Christian People's Party, Right and Left entered into an agreement with the government party on climate policy. The climate agreement was an order for the government with a solid plurality behind it in Stortinget. There were ambitious targets for national emission reductions. The government received a clear mandate to act. Today, almost four years later, emissions are higher than ever. The Government Party argues internally about the action to be taken. The evening post writes that now a cut in the emissions targets discusses rather than how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These are things we're forced to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1696	Hareide has repeatedly stressed that he does not have very large muscles. But the speech he gave today, I believe, bears the command of a great party leader. The Christian People's Party has today submitted, among others: a proposal on non-profit actors in key welfare tasks. We share the concern of the Christian People's Party that many non-profit actors end up in a fight with purely commercial players. For whom are the ideals losing the tenders against? Well, it's just the commercial players on the market. Just look at Oslo, how volunteers have withdrawn from tendering because they don't have the raw competition. Therefore, the government has taken some steps already, through, among other things. longer-term health-related agreements in the south-east and a separate call for tenders for ideals in the field of child protection. Does Hareide believe that ideals are best guaranteed by focusing even more on tenders and competition or with long-term contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1703	I share Mr Grande's concern for the non-profit sector. What I see is that with a red-green rule over the last five to six years, we have never experienced that so many non-profit institutions have had the means to do it. Last year, in 2010, 17 institutions were laid down. HSH says that if the policies that are now being pursued are pursued over the next five to ten years, all the ideal institutions will be gone. Then it's not right to say that it's just the commercial ones that are the challenge here. Blue Cross's institution on Askøy had to lay down. Who was it that took over him? Yes, it was Health Bergen, that is, Health West. It was the public that took over the institution. The institution lives on in many ways, but the ideal is gone, only the public is left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1708	The process we have seen, how many ideals have ended up in a skewer, in a pure competition, is precisely also the reason why the government has taken action within, among other things. Health south-east, but also within child protection. We have a lot to discuss together about this. But does Hareide believe that there are greater opportunities to achieve a good space of action, long-termity and focus on quality for the ideal actors, especially in the area of child protection, in a regime with the Right and the Advance Party, which is based solely on economic parameters, how short-sighted and where competition is it far-over?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1714	I am absolutely sure that if we let the volunteers get out of the free market, some of them will lose. because, in the 1960s-1970s, they had to enter into pension obligations in order to be part of the public supply. Therefore, they put in a way with a heavier bag than the private commercial players they compete with. What is the main point of the Christian People's Party is that there is a need for a grip in this area. When it comes to the developments that are taking place today, I don't think Oslo Municipality is making enough efforts, nor is the government, although Hans Olav Syversen is quite right in saying that what the Minister of Health took – and all the time the Minister of Health here – in relation to Health South-East, was very important, where institutions are being taken out, where there are longer periods of supply, and where volunteers are being given the opportunity to invest. The type of grip is very important. But my clear signal is that it's urgent, because these institutions disappeared day after day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1721	I want to continue with the same thing. I am one of those who have worked well with the Christian People's Party in our committee that has to do with competition law, to find out arrangements that don't give us a divorce that sets out the ideals and volunteers. But what I see now is that the Christian People's Party in many municipalities, especially in my home municipality, Kristiansand, is entering into a partnership with the Right and the Advance Party, which clearly says that they want to commercialise the public services and want to commercialise the welfare services in the municipality. My question is: Does the Christian People's Party have a strategy in the municipalities where they accept commercialisation that claims the volunteers to cooperate with the Advance Party and the Right, and another policy on the Stortinget when they can cooperate with us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1726	The Christian People's Party has a clear strategy: taking care of things. ideal actors. It is because we feel that neither the right side nor the left side of Norwegian policy does so in a good enough way. What has happened in Kristiansand is that we have entered into a partnership that we have also said that we want some private actors. Getting good private actors into some care services thinks we can be positive in some cases. But then, among other things, non-profits are part of those that can now be allowed to make good offers to Kristiansand Municipality. But having a one-sided focus on commercial actors or on the public is what we in the Christian People's Party are busy not having. We just want to have the good balance. We're positive to private actors, and we're positive to public actors, but we say, in the situation we're in now, we have to take special care of the ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1731	I have sat here and listened to his Progress Party – what to say – ‘behaving’ in the debate, and then I thought to myself: I wonder what the Christian People's Party and Hareide really think about it. And then I sat down and listened to Knut Arild Hareide's thought-provoking and very good contributions, and then I thought that it's like righting two planets, not least the fields he himself took up in his post: a less instrumental human vision and educational vision, poverty and distribution, environment and climate. So I thought I'd ask, how did the Christian People's Party intend to implement that value base together with the Progress Party? Or more precisely, how does the representative Hareide view being in a government with the Progress Party, or having the Progress Party as a supporting party in the Biggest, in the work for better distribution and less poverty, a better climate policy and a less instrumental human vision in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1736	When the Christian People's Party was in government, we had, among other things. support from the Progress Party for a formidable commitment to aid, poverty support, to those countries that need it the most. The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is what political results we get. It will also be in the process that we are going to have in the future in the political affairs. But then we know that in some things we're a center party. On the right we are occupied with individual freedom; we are occupied with the struggle against a sorting society. So we also know that in some things we see more on the left hand side, among other things. In the area of distribution policy, and in social policy, we have also done so. But what I can say is that yes, sometimes I feel that I and the Progress Party are on two different planets, but sometimes I feel that when I hear some of them from SV as well. It's one of being a clear center party, and it's going to be the Christian People's Party ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1743	There may also be a question from a party that is somewhat on the same level in such a debate! Hareide points out that in some things look one to the right, and in other things one to the left. It's a little bit of a center part. But in all the matters that have been the subject of this debate by the Christian People's Party's side, environment and climate, Russian policy, ensuring the whole country a positive development, the suppression of poverty, international solidarity, all the arrows against solutions between the centre and the left in Norwegian politics, while the glance at the Christian People's Party looks to go to the right. I'm simply wondering how the Christian People's Party looks at the possibility of implementing its policies in these important areas in cooperation with the party that quite clearly print out a completely different medicine for climate, district development and drug policy and other things we've been debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1752	In two days I think we'll be debating, among other things. cash-stamped, just freedom of choice for families with children, which is an important matter for the Christian People's Party. On a case-by-case basis, I could also refer to the sorting society, early ultrasound – important debates for the Christian People's Party. What communities should we have in the future? Should there be a society where everyone is respected for what they are? There are important value debates for the Christian People's Party. Historically, we in the Christian People's Party have had a positive impact on many of our important valuables in cooperation with the Centre-Right. It looks like history. These are important things for us. When we joined the government, we got an ambitious environmental policy in place. We experienced it during the Bondevik II administration, and that was the time when the health cows went down and not up, as they do today. Looking at a renewal of the public sector is also an important issue for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1761	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1764	We have heard representatives of the right parties say that the Labour Party's representatives are not talking about their own policies in the election campaign we just have behind us, and also in this debate. I think it is very relevant to address that question the other way around: are they talking about their own policy? I do it with the background that before this debate, and also earlier of course, I have been quite thoroughly involved in what they have written in their programmes, and what they are using as political argument in debates, in the election campaign and otherwise. Then we see in our own country, but also throughout Europe, that the right parties have a political philosophy that is the basis of their whole political argument. It's that the state doesn't have to be so big, the state has to be weaker, the taxes are going down, and the welfare state is often also in the way of value creation, as it's said. The Right and Advance Party, and this has been said by the Prime Minister and others here earlier in the debate, have said in their programmes ahead of the last major elections that they should lower taxes by tens of billions of dollars. Now I hear that Erna Solberg has changed the political stance in that way. She's at least changed rhetoric. She's not answering these things. In the line changes here now, this question is not answered: what will it have to do with economic policy and welfare? Now they say that competitiveness is undermined by government policy. That's now the argument. Then I have to ask the question in the Norwegian National Assembly: what can be the evidence for it in an economy where, as everyone has said, employment is so high and unemployment is so low that the real wage increase for the population is high in a difficult economic situation, and where we have had significant reforms in the public sector, which have strengthened both the country's competitiveness and well-being? Nevertheless, the representatives of the right-wing parties say that the growth power of the Norwegian economy is at risk and is being undermined. I'm just asking: what is not just the political, but the intellectual political argument for such evidence that it may be true? I don't understand. I meet with the right-wing representatives' argument later in this debate in order to be able to document it more clearly, so that they do not just have the opportunity here to surround themselves with a rhetoric that does not have a root ground in the real world. In addition, the question that is never answered is the question: What examples — in which countries, in which societies — is the fact that the liberal economy, lower taxes and a weaker welfare state generate more growth? It is never answered by any place. What's that expression for? Well, that may be an expression of many things, but it is first and foremost a statement that the right side is also not capable of sufficient self-recognition in Norway. Maybe there's a reason to say that there's also an expression of the lack of ideological renewal power on the right side. They're still saying that we're the immature ones. Then you have to ask yourself, what is it that is modern, if you cannot document the main sources of the political argument that you have? Here is the traditional main dividing line in Norwegian policy. We can already say that it is this election in 2013 primarily and fundamentally going to be about. So when we're going to know the political positions of the right-hand side within this crucial area, we're still going to see. I also say, of course, it becomes crucial and exciting how the Christian People's Party and the Left are positioned on this political issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1779	In Norway, many people have gradually taken up democracy, security and economic prosperity for granted. 2011 was the year when something of security was taken from us. Terror was no longer affecting the others. This brutal learning is always taking us with us as people. We're going to learn that we're going to work to make sure that terror never happens to us in a harsh and unmerciful way this summer. We're also going to use him to call about important values in our society. Norway needs to move on – a little better than before. In many areas, we in Norway are saved for turbulence and events that we see around us. Economic crises and food crises are a worthwhile thing. But we're also going to be affected. We have to go up high so that the crime lakes that wash over other countries can also reach the coast of Norway — fortunately, with a little less wavering. We must maneuver wisely in the future. Keeping interest rates and exchange rates low and ensuring full employment is essential for the country’s development and competitiveness. Managing natural values in a long-term and sustainable way gives us confidence that the wealth we experience today will also benefit our descendants. The world is approaching a new food crisis. Dryers, fleas and forest fires have large food producers. The principle of self-sufficiency has to wane in many countries. We have become increasingly dependent on a global food market, and the consequence is that food prices are rising worldwide. The poorest are brutally framed. In Norway we can afford to buy us free from the sale. But we can't buy ourselves free from the responsibility we have to produce food for our own people. Naboland and close allies stuck in a global economic crisis. EU storms are fighting for almost complete economic integration between euro area countries. The crisis is pushing the EU more and more towards a federal state. One also wants to make demands on those countries that are still outside the eurozone. These proposals come at the same time as the euro creates increasing difficulties within the EU. Euro countries are unable to speed up the economy again, and the public resistance to EU governance and budget cuts is greater than ever. People in Norway chose to stand outside the EU and the euro experiment. And people chose the right one. Yes-page should be happy today that the peoples speak against them. The argument that Norway has to enter the EU in order to influence it, I hope we don't get our right in a good time. In Denmark, the recently resigned government in the so-called reform package of 2020 meant that one had to raise 47 billion. kr by 2020 to achieve a government budget balance. The government got several in 2010 for a long-term plan to restore that balance. The plan includes the same level of expenditure for municipalities from 2010 to 2014 – four years of zero growth, significant efficiency requirements and large cuts in services. This is the backbone of the policy that we must pursue. We can't act independently of this. We must ensure the conditions of business and family care. The services in everyday life are based on the safety net when tougher times happen to us. This government has chosen to invest in municipalities and good services. We have conducted a necessary reverse operation for the local economy. We have a massive increase in service production, with about 70 000 more added to the municipal sector from 2005 to 2010. We've had a real growth of 48 billion. kr until 2011, a real growth of 2.7 pst. Investments have grown strongly and are at an historically high level. The upgrading of municipal buildings and new buildings provides a better supply for our young people, in schools and kindergartens, and for the elderly who need care. Now we get new local government to realize their visions and carry on the good work done to build services and business locally. Our job is to ensure good framework conditions and freedom, so that one can prioritize locally. In the budget, we will follow up the signals from the municipal proposition we presented in ours, and facilitate the situation that local elected representatives will also be able to give priority to the continuation of good municipal services next year. In addition to the basic welfare services, municipalities are also required to be community developers. Land planning and planning for new buildings are important tasks in this context. This year we will achieve almost 30,000 new buildings and units – a formidable growth in all parts of the country, but mostly in urban areas, which are also the most pressing. Not least the Husbank's arrangements ensure that young people and others who do not have a high initial capital also enter that market. Municipalities must also be strengthened in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1806	The municipal minister came with many superlatives when it came to municipal policy. The government is betting on the municipality. One has conducted a financial reverse operation for the municipalities, one has good framework conditions in the municipalities, and one has good municipal services. Now we've been through an electoral campaign, and there it's focused on basic welfare services in the municipalities and on municipal economy. So those who are in the municipalities, our elected representatives and those who are added to them, don't feel the community economy is good. They say that one has just received several crowns, but it has never been so expensive to run services in Kommune-Noreg, there have never been so many inhabitants in Kommune-Noreg, and we have never made such demands and our many services that have been transferred to the municipalities. Then my question is: has a misunderstanding completely out in Kommune-Noreg, since the municipal minister thinks everything is very good in the municipalities, while the municipalities experience it differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1813	Those with shoes always know best where to print. But I believe that both the KS and everyone else who is interested that the municipalities should have an operating result of about 3 p.p., are in agreement. It has been under this government by the municipalities. We have had a formidable growth in the budget. And so when I talk about the growth that's there, it's the real growth that's also corrected for the fact that we have a demography that's fortunately growing. We get more kids, we get more older – that's good. When we adjust the budget and add the free resources, this government has also taken the height of it, as opposed to the government that we abolished, which did not always cover the demographic costs that the municipalities have allocated to their services. I'm very proud of what the municipality does. I think everyone in this room should be better off highlighting what all the thousands of added and municipal politicians do in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1820	We hear the Mayor praise the municipalities for the job they do, and the responsibility of the municipalities. That's a rose right there joining. A great job is being done in all the municipalities of the country for the benefit of the population and for the benefit of social development. At the same time, we have not long received a diffi report – that is, a report from a directorate of central government – where it is said that there has been a massive shift of power from the municipalities to the state. We are constantly meeting with representatives of the KS, who say the same thing – that under this government there is growing frustration by depriving municipalities of power and authority at the expense of state agencies. We have just had an election campaign, where I myself have had the pleasure of meeting many rapporteurs from most parties and motivated municipal government candidates who want more than anything to be more responsible for their local community development. We hear that there is a big message about the relationship between the municipality and the state. What's in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1829	If it was so good that it was only under this government that the municipalities feel that the state has tightened their grip, it might not have been so serious. What has happened over several years, over several decades, not least when the Right is in government, is that there is a greater government governance, among other things. through directorate and supervision. This government has taken hold of it. It is this government that has got the diff report on the table. We are also going to present a big message where the Stortinget will be able to discuss the relationship between the state and the municipality, and it is this government that stands for a historically low ear tag for the municipalities. She's down to 5 pst. and have never been smaller. It is also part of municipal freedom of action that a local priority can be given to how to use your resources. I will come back with the Storing message, and then there will be a good opportunity to discuss the relationship between the state and the municipality, which is very important for the future in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1838	The Christian People's Party was predictive enough to announce in the municipal proposition that we wanted to grant 1 billion. NOK extra to the municipalities, in addition to what the government itself announced in the municipal bill. I say that, because today, through the NRK news, we became familiar with a budgetary leak that gives cause for concern, namely that you cut 1 billion. kr in the free income of municipalities in relation to that notified. If it results in correctness, it means less care for the elderly, not better. It means no growth in teacher density, rather on the contrary. And it's going to make municipalities even more vulnerable to demographic development, relative to wage growth, relative to pension costs. Does this bring the budgetary leakage to justice? And how does the Council of State think that municipalities should now be able to avoid cutting back on important welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1847	Budget Leakers are known to be – sometimes at least – the government's way of getting the news out in a different way. Today's leakage was surprising for the municipal minister, nor is it right that we cut 1 billion. kr in the free income. As I said in my post, we're going to follow up on what's announced in the municipal bill. And what we're going to enter in the budget will be within the intervals that are alerts. In this way, Kommune-Noreg will not get a shock on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1854	The Minister of Local Affairs said in his reply to me that there was a wrong economic path in the municipality of Norway. The economy of Kommune-Noreg is on the go. Now we have a municipality-state-reporting called KOSTRA. She shows that 203 municipalities had a worse net operating surplus in 2010 than they had in 2007. In addition, the review shows that 257 municipalities – well over half – had a net operating result that was lower than the recommended minimum standard of 3 pst. The question for the municipal minister is: is there any reason to believe in these speeches from KOSTRA, or does the municipal minister think that the number is wrong, and that it is very good in Kommune-Noreg financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1863	And there's a lot of ways to measure what's going on. It is possible to keep the activity at a very low level and still have a good operating result. It did one in part in the Right Regiment's time. One had very small growth in the number of added, but the operating result was not necessarily very bad. But one had great growth in ROBEK municipalities in this period. Now the number of ROBEK municipalities – i.e. municipalities under state control – has fallen, from 116 in 2005 to 51 in September this year. It's a way of interpreting evolution, that more people now have managed to take care of their own economy. The average operating result last year was 3.2 pst. But the most important thing for me is that there are 70,000 more people, after we got into government, who now provide good services in kindergartens – full child care coverage – in schools and in care for the elderly. It's human beings that count, not numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1873	Every day we read in the media about the economic crisis in Europe. Several southern European countries are in practice at the brink of bankruptcy. Mass unemployment and social problems in Greece are now to be solved with massive redundancies of public servants, and even more people are forced to leave. It is in stark contrast to the day-to-day experience in Norway. Most people have a job to go to, the payroll bag is growing, and we continue to expand welfare. It is true that we drew the winning weight and found oil, but we could still have found ourselves in a deep economic crisis if we had spent this money over our ability. But we've shown moderation in money management, as many other countries lived above their abilities, we've been working to get women to work, we've been running counter-cyclical policies instead of fiscal policies, and we've spent the big money building up well-being. It's hands and heads building the country. That is why, unlike many other European countries, we have invested in high levels of professional participation among women. Equality is one of the carriers in the Norwegian model. Our whole community is built on everyone's ability to contribute and receive as needed. ‘All’ simply means everyone, and not half, as is the case in Italy, Poland and Spain. Kindergartens, parental leave, regulated working time and rights through gender equality legislation have given us the world's highest professional participation among women, while Norwegian women have the largest number of children in Europe. Both are crucial to prosperity – it is better that the whole people work and pay taxes than that only half do it. Moreover, it is imperative that we have many children who can continue to build the country and well-being. This is precisely why it is so important that Norwegian women are not forced to choose either child or work. Equality policy is one of the main reasons Norway is going to laugh, and no simple rhetoric has been invented by the Norwegian Prime Minister. As early as 2007, the OECD noted that equality strengthens the economy of a country. International research also shows that equality in the education, labour and economic sectors strengthens gross national income, competitiveness and innovation. However, the policy of the right-hand side may weaken women's ability to participate in the professional life. Over the last year, we've got a new concept: bourgeois feminism. It is proposed that the time clamp for the families of young children should be resolved through more flexible working hours. It will by no means help parents who are in time, on the contrary. If mother and father are to become more flexible, it means that they have to work longer and more outside the opening hours of kindergartens. They won't be able to pick up their children in kindergarten many times. In practice, the right-hand working time policy will give parents less freedom of choice when the employer has to dictate the working time to a greater extent. At best, mother and father get less time with the children; at worst, mother has to stop working. The right-hand side of Europe has used flexible working time and temporary employment as an argument to facilitate entry into the labour market. The right-wing parties do the same in Norway. But this is in practice a policy to keep women out of the labour market. Lack of regulated working time and poor pay make it impossible for Italian and, for example: German women also to be active. We do not want such a policy in Norway. It is therefore important to stop attempts to weaken workers’ rights. Sickness with a work environment law and good dismissal protection are addressed to many women who are second-class workers in the Norwegian labour market. In the healthcare sector, part-time is combined with additional shifts. The hotel and restaurant industry have zeros and ring guards. Work is deemed to be completed after the watch or work has been carried out. In practice, it means zero notice period. Such a practice provides an unbridled working situation with random working time and income, as well as zero opportunities to establish themselves with bank loans and liabilities. When, in addition, the right-hand side will weaken the protection against dismissal and have several temporary employees, women will be affected first and foremost. It's the opposite of the Workers' Party and a red-green government has gone. We have proposed measures to prevent social dumping. All these proposals put in place under the red-green government will improve the working situation of women in low-wage professions and prevent social dumping. [[The President clubs.]] These proposals have been opposed to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1894	The President requests that the representatives and, furthermore, the Councils also stay within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1898	Yes, I will try as best I can to stay within speaking time. First of all, when I heard the speech yesterday, and when I heard representatives from the government parties and government councils from this pulpit in the debate today, it is clearly a sign that the sitting government wants to continue to manage Norway with great words without vision for the future. It made me think of one of the trombone rock artists, Terje Tysland, who sang the same Old Lexa. I think we have heard before the words served in this debate. What does the government say? Well, the government says that you want high employment, low unemployment. You want to secure and maintain a good well-being. I think we all agree on that. But what concerns me is: do we have a high level of employment today when we know that 800,000 people in working life are out of work, when we know that 78 000 people with disabilities want to enter the labour market, but do we not get the help or assistance needed to get into normal working life? At the same time, we know that 20,000 people with disabilities are actively looking for work, they are available and qualified to enter the labour market, and they do not get the necessary help to get in. And what help am I asking for? Yes, we can, for example. take one that I had contact with myself this summer, and that I visited. He had got an organized job in the ordinary working life and was ready to go out. The company was waiting for him. The problem was that the money bag for Nav was empty when it came to organizing grants. The money bag was empty when it came to organizing work trips, he stood there and did not get to work. Such simple things can actually be done by having a more active policy towards those who have fallen outside. We know that the current government – and also the Prime Minister – has said that we have little to do with the state budget. There will be a tight government budget for 2012, and we know that in the current year the government has reduced the number of action places. We know that people wait more than 900 days to get into the right action to qualify for employment. Why do you not have a much more proactive policy, as the Progress Party wants, and get more action places, so that people can get on with the right measures more quickly and become more qualified to get into normal working life? Instead, we record that many of these people never get out of work, time goes from them, and you're rather pushed over to disability statistics, which the Progress Party and I think is unworthy. Then I also record talking about sustainable well-being, and you have to take action to maintain a sustainable well-being. In the last year, we've had two new big oil finds that give the state big, new revenues, and that are referred to in the media as a happy news. This must mean that you could have a little more room to organize and do something about the health care system. We know today that the queue has increased by 80,000 since the sitting government took over. Many of these people who are sick today are waiting for a simple operation. I visited Nortura in Trøndelag, where an employee has gone for six months and was waiting for a small latening operation that could have actually made him come back to work – an operation that takes 10 minutes to complete, he has waited six months for. I think it is unworthy that, with the economy that Norway has, there is no better way of getting a better and more flexible policy, simple measures, to ensure that more people are maintained in the labour market, and that fewer people fall outside and into social security schemes. Finally, with the new income that we will receive, I ask the question: does that mean that the sustainability of the pension system we have today could have been followed up, that one could have continued the pension system for which the Progress Party joined, without that leading to a worse economy? But what you have actually done is to weaken well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1915	On the Day Revy yesterday, there were images from another demonstration in Greece. A Greek student was interviewed. He said, "We don't have teachers, we don't have books. We strike to get it and to get free education. Think about it. Unemployment, government debt and social security cuts are commonplace in many European countries. What does it do to people to experience such a crisis? Young people who should really have planned the future get their lives broken before they even get started. Trust is broken. This tells us a lot – not to say everything – about the responsibility for keeping the economy in order, because it's about people and the ability of generations to have faith in the future. I'm startled by the Progress Party if it's right what it said in the paper yesterday, that they think there's no need to tighten up now. For the situation in large parts of Europe, policy is the result. Norway’s good starting point for dealing with unrest in the international economy is also the result of policies — social democratic policies. I would like to thank former forward-looking politicians who made wise choices and who were defyed for right-wing policy. We have ensured that the community's resources are managed by the community. It could have been different. We have ensured that Norway today has Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have ensured that we are at the top of the European Union in terms of female employment, and we have managed the effects of the financial crisis effectively and wisely, thanks to the fact that we have a majority government working for everyone as a job no. 1 and that can act quickly with a majority behind in Parliament. Just think about how paralysing it is for politics and for people's confidence that Obama does not have a majority in Congress. But I would also like to thank you for managing this wealth in such a wise way. How many times have we had to resist the persistent running of more use of the pension fund from the Progress Party? Their policies would both destroy the basis of the wealth we have and powder the savings. Norwegian families, communities and businesses can be incredibly happy that the Progress Party has not escaped with this short-term policy. Time has come from the solutions of the right-wing policy. As the Economic Editor of the Evening Post, Ola Storeng, wrote on Saturday: ‘Tax reliefs are out-of-date intelligible’. Of course, I fully agree. We still see some convulsions, but most people have revealed what I want to call right-wing logic, that rich people work more if they get more money, while poor people work more if they get less money. The goal of the right-hand side is a society with greater differences. What they ignore is that research shows that happiness decreases as inequalities in a society increase. In societies with great inequalities, there are major health problems, more social problems, more crime — at all, a more dysfunctional society. Even mortality is greater in societies with great inequalities. It's about the quality of human relationships. In societies with small differences, trust is greater and the community is stronger, public health is better, and crime is lower. The quality of a society is short and better where material wealth is equally distributed. Such a society is also our foremost bulwark against extreme attitudes of any kind. In gratitude and reverence for what previous generations have accomplished, we are ready to dedicate our lives to fighting for everyone to be equally worthy, for everyone to choose their own life, and for all children to avoid encountering a world in which the Greek youth lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1941	After hearing the speech of the throne yesterday and the debate so far today, there are many themes that you could address. Many have been involved in the event on July 22nd and the situation in retrospect. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice have addressed these important issues in the debate. As former justice politicians, I know, and the Minister of Justice, that resources to the police have been a review theme for the last six years. Many times the opposition has felt that the Council of State has been on a different planet than the one we've been on. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Council of State for the fact that there is a certain humble production that is now coming. Today's debate has been a lot about preparedness and the PST. But it is important that today we also focus on combating the crime that is taking place every day and that is now being harmed because the police do not have enough capacity. As a woman and mother, I'm really worried when you see that assaults aren't being investigated, but blamed. Previous speeches are here and talk about less crime, but that's not what we see in everyday life. Police lack staff and resources to be sufficiently visible and present in the cityscape in the evening. This means that prevention is unfortunately not optimised. In addition, we know that the process time associated with DNA analyses is still too long – analyses that could help to advance the investigation. It seems a little strange when the Minister of Justice says that there are not only resources on it, but also other instruments, when we know that a laboratory in Stavanger has the necessary expertise and could help the police with such analyses. Furthermore, we have been able to read on several occasions that hundreds of morals have been put aside by the police in several of the major cities because of lack of capacity on the investigation page. This development is taking place despite the fact that several years ago the Minister of Justice announced the fight against this type of crime and that efforts to combat rape should be intensified. The result of more and more rapes becoming known gives a massive sense of insecurity among the girls who travel in the big cities in the evening. They have demands for a safe environment around them, and the police provide that security. I have written a letter to the Minister of Justice on this subject. I hope that the Minister of Justice will take the time to get to the Stortinget to find out what he really wants to do to bring down the figures on rapes. I cannot speak in this debate without saying a word about combating poverty. I want to commend the Prime Minister for his commitment to combating poverty around the world. But I wish he had had the same commitment here to the country as well. We know that we've had over 6,500 more poor children under this government. No action promoted in this room has been able to reduce this, nor has it increased. Helga Pedersen said in his speech that combating poverty by distributing wealth. Yes, if the budget leaks are correct, we'll see on Thursday that the VAT on food will increase. It is the grips that this government makes for the families of young children and for the pensioners, and that create more poverty. These families often ask that healthy food be cheaper. I want to quote a colleague. He said that KIWI has actually done more to combat poverty than this government has done. Nothing has been done about child welfare either. Several researchers say that it can help combat poverty among the families of young children. Finally, we hear Board Vegar Solhjell talk about freedom of choice, and we hear Gunn Karin Gjul talk about the right side wanting to destroy women and families. It's a black paint of what the right-hand side will do. The freedom of choice in everyday life they refer to is a freedom of choice that is only real as long as you choose what this government – and especially SV – wants you to choose. One of the main lines of policy — and often the difference between government and the Progress Party — is that the Progress Party has faith in the freedom of choice of the family. The party of progress has faith in the individual. We want to put the individual in front of the system. There's something this government doesn't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1962	The right has said throughout this debate that we will create security and well-being through knowledge and competitiveness. So Stokkan-Grande's attack is far above target. The representative, Kolberg, draws a purely distorted view of Right's policy. Yes, Martin Kolberg comes with some sort of strawman argumentation that absolutely does not stand for believers. The truth is, it's about creating more, not taxing more. Maybe Kolberg doesn't believe in me, but maybe he believes in the government colleague Navarsete who in today's business on January 31, 2009 says: ‘If we reduce the tax on business, it will increase growth. Business will be more able to make returns. It in turn gives more jobs, which in turn leads to an increase in tax revenue in the country.» Well said – dynamic tax policy is called. Let me also remind Kolberg that while we lowered the taxes, we also reduced the health cow by 50,000. This government has increased taxes and the health queue has increased by nearly 80,000. The red-green parties are wise to assume that not all welfare is created by the state and the municipality or their employees. Private organisations and not least individuals are also very important actors in a welfare society. The lack and possibility of real choices in the care sector is what really provides security in the provision of care, and here the government fails. Public care appears to be more important than diversity. Healthy growth and competitiveness, which provide just the opportunity to provide well-being, are created by pursuing a policy that makes companies invest, to hire people, and also by keeping the level of taxation as low as possible. This creates optimism, growth impulses and growth forces that provide a basis for increased well-being. Therefore, the government has a significant responsibility to facilitate improved competitiveness in Norwegian business, but in this area the government fails. The solutions are not increasingly higher taxes and taxes in a good working party tradition, as one might get the impression of the Prime Minister earlier today. And it's a pleasure, as many people have said today, that on behalf of the employees' organisations, the fleethen brings up this strange wealth tax, which thus prevents value creation. This will also produce significant dynamic effects, which are more responsible for the social shock. Let me give an example of this: the previous bourgeois government removed the investment tax, which gave very good and lasting growth impulses into the Norwegian economy, which in particular this government has benefited from. Nor is it very impressive or credible when the Workers' Party highlights the situation in Norway and the effects of the financial crisis as unique red-green political craftsmanship. No other country had the opportunity that we had in Norway. Of course, these effects subdued. The government is committed to protecting public monopolies, rather than stimulating diversity, which can provide better services to users. In the right, there is a need for significant embellishment and reforms. The Prime Minister says today that they are reforming and modernising the public sector. It's a highly questionable truth. In the transport sector, there is at least complete standstill. This is where a purely old-fashioned budgetary policy is run without intention for reform and innovation. In all countries, exciting developments are taking place in this sector, where new instruments and interventions are being used to build roads and railways faster, smarter and more comprehensively. The government parties are voting against all proposals for reform and innovation, which means that we are increasingly lagging behind in the quality of our road and rail network. And this is a particularly important factor in facilitating greater competitiveness. Business continues to highlight, and in all contexts, with us politicians that mobility and competitiveness are essential for growth and safe jobs. Everyone sees the needs, but the government does not have the answers. Let me finally illustrate this with two quotes. The first is from Jens Stoltenberg, where he says: We cannot take up some asphalt and pay the pensions in the future with it. Let's hear what our Nobel Prize winner in economics, Ragnar Frisch, says: A person can save for his old age, but a state must invest for its old age. Maybe something to learn here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e1991	Since the last Stortinget was active, in June, two things have particularly affected us. One is the terrible events of July 22. The second is the violent turbulence of the world economy, especially in the euro zone. The international debt crisis and the unexpected and cruel terrorist attack put us to the test. It requires wisdom, intelligence and leadership of us as politicians, and understanding and knowledge of whether we are to ensure continued financial stability and an experience that Norway is a safe country to live in. There should be no doubt that securing us against economic relapses and taking back security are the two most important tasks we face as a nation. One such goal in the world we see around us in 2011 is to set high ambitions. And if we are to achieve these objectives, we need to base our policy on knowledge, both by pursuing an economic policy based on what we know about the social economy, and by facing threats and uncertainties with transparency, democracy and participation, but also concrete actions that Prime Minister Stoltenberg mentioned earlier in today's debate. I believe this task is simpler in a country like Norway. We have a high level of education, and most people have a safe and good life. The Norwegian model has many characteristics. One of them is that most of us have attended the same school, regardless of income, social background and innate abilities. It gives us a common reference framework and gives most of us an experience of being part of the big community. For the Workers' Party, it's a goal in itself that everyone should join in, and that together we do the problems better than each of us. That's why we're calling about primary school. A common public and good school for all must be the pillar of our society. Schools were, of course, a central theme in the campaign. It's the municipalities that own the schools. They own the buildings, they are the employers of the teachers, and they are responsible for implementing Norwegian education policy. My impression is that there are many newly elected local government representatives who are eager to get started and work to give our children a safer and better school. That's good. But not all signals am I just as excited about, and these are for the Right rapporteurs and school politicians, who argue to a large extent for more testing, grades in high school and the privatisation of school. For example, the rapporteur, Tore Opdal Hansen, in Drammen, said in a debate at the NRK that commercial profits were quite fine, and compared it to making money in school by running the usual store. It's a comparison I'm amazed at. Education is too important to be a point on a shopping list. Opening up to increased privatisation of the school does not lead to a better school. Sweden is a good example of this. An independent report recently presented there shows that there has been no more diversity in the Swedish school since they made their changes to the law: The school offer, both public and private, is becoming more and more popular. The school results of students have not become measurable better, rather on the contrary. The level of knowledge has been reduced in Sweden over the last 15 years, while the level of character in school has increased – clear evidence that competition has contributed to character inflation. Students from private primary schools perform somewhat worse in secondary education than students from municipal primary schools. The reform is costly, and there is much evidence that more students in private schools also increase the total cost of education for municipalities. In addition, it has led to increased segregation, i.e. that pupils in private schools have on average senior parents and higher income. Students with a foreign background are underrepresented in commercial private schools. It's not surprising. This is not a recipe we should follow. We should focus on strengthening the community school and even more clearly on reading, writing and billing, basic skills and early efforts. We shall prevent apostasy and ensure that all students experience mastering and that they are part of the community. In this way, we safeguard the goals of Norwegian school, and in this way we invest in a future that needs to be built on knowledge, where we jointly solve the major challenges we have together, both in the world and in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2022	The Prime Minister spent more than half his time today attacking us on July 22nd. It was timely. I want to say that I am proud of our political leaders both in position and in opposition that they were operational, clear as leaders, and that they were united in the crisis. But I am most proud of the Norwegian people, who gathered across and stood together against the atrocities. The government reduced the so-called 22 July Commission shortly after 22 July. The Commission shall carry out a very important task. But I disagree with the Prime Minister in one area, because as I understood the Prime Minister, he felt it was important not to conclude with anything until the Commission's report was completed, except, of course, that the government has already chosen to conclude – with which we are likely to hear more about this week in connection with resources for both police and police helicopters. The matter is too important for us to let it lie down for a year. The next vengeful terrorist can lurk behind the next corner, and it is essential that we close security and preparedness holes continually. Therefore, the Storting must not accept to be passive while waiting for the government’s own evaluation. It is at a time like this that we must allow ourselves to act in order to prevent future events and to ensure better preparedness and security if it should hit us again. Some believe that the government's waiting-and-see attitude is due to the fear that someone will be held responsible for what happened on 22 July. That is why I stress the fact that there is only one person responsible for the terrorist attack, and he is behind locks and punches. At the same time, no responsible politician can ignore the ongoing political responsibility we have to ensure police and civil protection framework conditions that are sound and as good as we want. It is an ongoing responsibility for the government to secure resources for prevention, detection and action to secure citizens against terrorism. It is an ongoing responsibility for the government to ensure a satisfactory preparedness in the form of equipment and trained ratings in line with the Storting assumptions. The whole point of civil protection is to be able to deal with a crisis when it comes. The preparedness must be in place before the crisis comes. It helps little afterwards to find out that a priority response should be higher. The civil defence is known during the conversion and in St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008, a unanimous increase in the government’s view of the main direction of the transition, and not least the need for investment of then 162 million. kr. Since the Stortinget gave its approval, the government has proposed at least 15 million. kr for the purpose. The terror that struck us would not have been hindered if the civil defence had got the resources needed, but their efficiency and ability to contribute would be much stronger. The government parties have a majority in Stortinget, and they have had the opportunity to support the proposals of the Progress Party to grant this money, 162 million. kr over two years, but instead they have chosen to follow their own government's proposal to continue to deprioritise civil protection. There was an error rating. If the proposal of the Advance Party had been adopted, the preparedness of the Civil Protection Party would make them much better equipped to deal with crisis situations, not only in the form of terror, but also in the form of accidents, oil spills, acute pollution, large fires, etc. Many still underestimate the role of civil defence in crises and accidents. But the role of civil defence is very central both in today's and future preparedness, and civil defence played a central role during and after the crisis of July 22. In fact, it is one and only a political responsibility when the capacity of civil defence is weakened because of insufficient equipment and insufficient resources to exercise. The resource situation of the Civil Protection Agency does not come as a surprise after July 22nd. It's a deliberate down-priority of total civil protection. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the PST, for it has been directed quite strongly against the PST after the terrorist acts. The main reason for the criticism seems to be unprofessional media management after the events and unsavory statements, as well as many have expected that the PST was actually able to reveal this kind of relationship before the terror actually hits us. The leading assets of PST are trusted. This trust must be carefully managed and not squandered by thoughtlessness or trying to apologize when things happen many think PST should have discovered. It is a political responsibility to ensure that the PST maintains its key assets in the best possible way and to ensure framework conditions and management in line with the needs of the service. Nor is it a question that can rest until the 22nd of July Commission has completed its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2056	Last week I was able to tell my friends in the British Labour Party that unemployment in Norway was 2.7 pst. in August, they hardly thought what they heard. We have to go back to the post-war period to find such low unemployment rates there. In the United Kingdom, unemployment is now rising sharply after the liberal conservative government took its seat. Every month, new tens of thousands are going to have to go the heavy time to the social security office or the social work office to get money for the rest of their lives. The brutal cutting policy of the Cameron government is now also affecting the police, school and health services. The prescription is the same in all debt-reduced countries, i.e.: dramatic cuts in public budgets and welfare offers. This increases unemployment, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector, for many private enterprises also depend on high public consumption. The only thing that is increasing in the British economy is the payments to the unemployed. It is particularly bad for young people who meet closed doors on the day they join the labour market. In the United Kingdom, youth unemployment is now over 20pst. In Spain, every other youth is out of work. This is the case in many countries. Youth unemployment is like a pressure cook. It threatens stability in many societies. We saw it in the United Kingdom this summer when youth ran out into the streets and herded the game. We've seen the same thing in France before. This is the price of the loan-funded over-consumption, and even if we have the oil wealth to float on and therefore are in a different economic situation, there are some people in this country who also think it is possible to get out of all the problems while we can lower the taxes. Norway is the counterpart of the development that now characterises Europe. We've kept order in our own house, we don't spend more than we can afford, we have a high level of common consumption, good welfare arrangements and almost full employment. We have a high level of professional participation and very productive labour force, but we're reading the danger signals. We know from experience that high interest rates, high dollar rates and failing export markets are a dangerous combination, which easily affects our outgoing economy. That's why it's so important that we keep track of the economy. Since the government change in 2005, 250,000 new jobs have been created in this country – three out of four in the private sector. Employment will also increase next year, especially in care, construction and construction and the offshore industry. This is the result of a conscious policy for work and value creation, where job security is a core value. Just because high employment and value creation are the basis for our well-being, it is so important to involve new groups in the labour market. Already, we see signs that more people are still working after they have retired. The government has put forward proposals for a malpractice reform aimed at facilitating the transition between social security and work according to skills and opportunities. But then we also need to develop a labour market that provides employment opportunities for people who do not have full employment at all times. The correlation between employment and value added can be illustrated by the following example: If the average retirement age in this country increases by six months, annual pension expenditure is reduced by 12 billion. kr, but the value increase by twice as much. And then we haven't put any economic value on the social importance of the workplaces. Step by step, we will develop the working life and the working environment. The announcement of a good and decent working life is a significant contribution to this. The Government will safeguard and strengthen the rights of workers in the labour market. We will build on the Norwegian welfare model and the close cooperation between the social partners, which has made it possible to create the growth we have witnessed. That, of course, does not mean that there is full agreement on all questions. Towards the 2013 decision-making process, we will find that there is a conflict between measures and instruments in the labour market policy. We have seen it for a long time in the fight against the most serious problem of Norwegian working life, namely social dumping, where the right parties have for the most part placed themselves on the sideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2069	I want to start by thanking Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the government for the way they have run our country through a tragic and unreal time for all of us. What happened on July 22, put everything else in the shadow, and it was demanding to motivate themselves for election. But for democracy it was important to implement it. As a mortar, it is good to note that the Workers' Party was the largest party along our coast. At the top of the Workers' Party's priority list is work for everyone. In that case, it is a win in itself to see that a total of 60 000 new jobs have been created in the West only since 2005. Most have come in the private sector. Industrious people and skilled workers have been able to make use of the opportunities offered by the markets. With safe economic governance, active industrial policy, good framework conditions and ambitious simplification policies, the government has facilitated this. From business we get clear signals that they need more employees. They recruit a large proportion of workers from, among others: Eastern Europe. They're a big help. But are they appreciated? Many people are well received, but unfortunately some people feel that they are being exploited. Experience has shown that poor conditions have largely occurred in the construction sector. The trade union movement has therefore played an important role in improving this, and the government has provided a number of measures against social dumping. Access to safe jobs, good working conditions and balance of power in the labour market are important for the Workers' Party. That's exactly why we're the Workers' Party. We've shown this by stopping the right-hand side's weakening of employees' rights. In the election campaign I was at the NHO Småting in Trondheim. There, Højres City Council in Bergen, Monica Mæland, stated that ‘We in the Right are for everything LO is against’. And I think she's actually far on the way right. Because with the Right, many workers are likely to have weaker job protection, longer working days and less overtime pay. We will have more temporary employment and experience a cessation of the fight against social dumping. Such a work policy is to reverse the clock on time. Our competitive industries must be strengthened by an economically responsible policy and prevent a krone price that weakens competitiveness. Not least, it's important in the light of the debt crisis we're now looking at in the world. Here's the Stoltenberg government to trust. The economic policy of the Progress Party, where increased use of money for all good purposes is to be derived from the oil fund, will in itself increase the uncertainty of our coastal industry by thousands of industrial workers, through increased price increases and more expensive goods to sell. I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry, through good dialogue with the industry, show that they are important partners in the industrial challenge in the West. Recently I visited a company in Nesset. The Executive Director described what the reporting requirements to the public took time and effort. He described a demanding working day with reports and frequent deadlines, which can both take the night sleep from one and contribute to a high level of stress. It was therefore good to be able to point out that where previous governments have spoken, we act. A proposal for a common reporting solution for reporting by employers to the Tax Agency, Nav and the Statistical Central Bureau is now out for consultation. This is in addition to the removal of audit obligations for small enterprises, reduced requirements to form limited liability companies and concrete measures for simplifications equivalent to 10 billion. kr by 2015. NHO Chief John G. Bernander is among those who have praised the government in strong order for this. Finally, I would like to say that if we have never sat so much on our green branch through the financial crisis, we must be prepared for markets to collapse, and for the debt crisis outside the world to strike us cold. In that case, there is a need for sound economic policy management, as demonstrated by our government through the financial crisis. The last thing we need is uncertainty as to whether the billions of troops in the Progress Party will get their hands on the wheel after a possible government change in 2013, an uncertainty Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg contributed to the Norwegian Political Quarter at the latest this morning – NRK Political Quarter, Sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2099	Yes, there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2102	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2107	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2111	Many countries are experiencing very turbulent economic times. If Norwegian industry is to succeed, export companies that receive a provision for their goods at prices that give a positive bottom line will be required. In this respect, it is not enough to stress the importance of creating security by investing in knowledge and competitiveness. It's Right Big Concern that the government doesn't use the space we have to do the right things. That's when we have to force the teachers as the most important single factor in creating an education offer of the highest class. It is now that we must invest in research that seed for the unborn business in all parts of the country, including the northern regions. The right has repeatedly challenged the government and called for offensive measures to enable knowledge policy to build more competitiveness and to drive new industries and new jobs to ensure the well-being of future generations. It made an impression on the Right when, in a New Year's speech a few years ago, the Prime Minister stated, "Knowledge is trompling everything." The problem is that action did not follow words. An increasing number of voters have been discovered. This year’s election results are therefore not a cry for more red-green policy and red-green school policy, on the contrary. It can be hard for red-green representatives to see. Many voters in large and small municipalities have pointed to the Right as the best party to ensure that school and education policies are given the highest priority, and that we as countries are able to compete internationally. The right now experience sustained progress and strong support for a school and education policy with knowledge and quality at all stages of the education chain. The goal is highly skilled teachers and a school that meets all students with higher expectations. Regardless of background, students shall be given the opportunity to use their abilities and talents. Good basic skills are door openers for later education and careers. If the Minister of Knowledge and the Government believe that human capital is the most important thing in this country, it must be invested in it. But here it fails. This year’s census is a new confirmation, for knowledge policy must be said to be absent — despite the fact that the same census points to a series of challenges in basic industries — in order not to mention the climate challenges, which can only be solved by increasing awareness and research. The involvement of school policy reflects not least the election campaign we have just set ourselves. The election results have given Right more than 2000 local politicians with a clear mandate for more Right-wing policy in school. The right has clear visions for the school, which Norwegian voters clearly value. We have to dry down to set ourselves high and bold targets in school too. Therefore, the Right has formulated what we think should be the visions for Norwegian school by 2030: Teachers shall be recruited from the 25 pst. Best students from high school. The teaching profession should be among the most popular aspirations for the future of 15-year-olds. Teachers shall be able to make their careers in classrooms and become specialists, with increased responsibilities and pay. The teaching profession shall be a profession of high status in the Norwegian community, and Norwegian students shall no longer depend on happiness in order to receive the good teacher and good teaching. Such visions commit. But we cannot have lower political ambitions than this either. We owe that to our children and young people. The right has long talked hot about the teacher. And we're going to keep doing that. The teacher is the school’s most important resource. We need professionally strong, safe and competent teachers to teach an increasingly diverse student group. Today, there is too much chance of students getting a good or a bad teacher. Good teachers promise all students, regardless of their social background. When we know that students with good teachers evolve three times as fast as students with bad teachers, we can't let this game continue. That is why we need to step up the commitment to continuing education and training, and we need to strengthen the requirements for access to teacher training. The best students must also be the best and most well-qualified teachers in the future. Security through knowledge and competitiveness must be built from below. The first building block is an active school policy, but it also requires that we take an interest in the six-year-olds before school starts, so that all the kids start with the best assumptions on the day they enter the school gate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2141	Once again, we have been through an electoral campaign where basic welfare services in the municipalities – or the lack of them – have been a central theme. Unfortunately, this is not the first election campaign in which welfare services such as care for the elderly, health and schooling and the community economy have been a central theme. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that there will be no theme in future options either. The red-green parties and the government claim, both inflated and out of breath, that the municipalities have been given financial support, and that the 2011 budget has also given added financial power to the municipalities. Now it's so that if you travel around the municipality of Norway, you can see that it's not the way the municipalities experience it. That's not how the locals in the municipalities and the locals experience it. So there is little evidence of a strong local economy, seen from the local authorities' point of view. There is a correct increase in transfers in kroner to municipalities – income – there is no doubt. But then it's that way that things get more expensive. Local authorities are constantly getting new tasks from the state, without being fully funded. There are also stricter requirements for municipal services that are adopted by Stortinget. There are also additional expectations among the inhabitants that make it more expensive to provide the services. There is also a strong population increase in the municipality of Norway, with about 62,000 more inhabitants in the municipality of Norway in the last 12 months. There's an increase of 1.3 pst. Of course, there are more services to provide. In addition, there is an ageing population, which means that there are more people who need care as age increases. The KOMMune-STat report shows that 203 municipalities had a worse net operating surplus in 2010 than they had in 2007. In addition, the review shows that 257 of our 430 municipalities had a net operating result that is lower than the recommended minimum norm of 3 pst. Here's a little special: although the municipalities have a surplus on the municipal budget, they don't have to go in plus really. Of course, the local authorities have not written it down. On the other hand, they have loans as operating costs. But they don't have a depreciation, and that means numbers aren't real. If the municipalities were to change to general accounting rules, it would mean that most municipalities had a negative operating result. The poor community economy makes the municipalities exploit their income potential, especially when it comes to property taxes. The figure is clear: from 2009 to 2010, property tax increases by 9.4 p.m., to 7.1 b.m. kr. There are 309 municipalities that now have some form of property tax. That's an increase from 277 in 2007. In 2007, 55 municipalities had property taxes throughout the municipality. Now it is almost tripartite – to 145 municipalities that have property taxes throughout the municipality. The fact that more and more municipalities introduce property taxes is a clear expression of the poor municipal economy that many municipalities experience on their bodies. It is therefore quite clear that municipalities need more money. Also during the treatment of the previous government budget, the Progress Party went in to add more money to the municipalities. And if the leaks are right now, it's obvious that the Progress Party is forced to propose new transfers, plus what the government is proposing to the Stortinget, to maintain a good welfare level in the municipalities. We have to come back to that anyway. So it's not right, as the government claims, that the municipalities have a good economy. Kommune-Noreg is experiencing a tight economy – in many ways a swallowing of the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2160	The world is marked by the debt crisis, the climate crisis, the food crisis and the financial crisis. These are crises that are linked. We see unemployment and mistrust. In countries by country, people take to the streets in protest against unsocial cuts. People are furious. They are extra furious because they feel that the richest go free from all cuts, and even get richer – including those who have caused the problems in the first place. In the United States, Wall Street is occupied by malicious demonstrators who demand more justice, security and freedom, at the expense of financial capital and speculators. Let's hope that the United States will also join the range of countries that now want a tax on financial transactions, which would be an important contribution to increased justice and less speculation. We in the EU fully support the initiative taken in the EU in this respect. There is reason to rethink in very basic ways to prevent new crises from occurring and to remedy the damage caused by the previous ones. We need a system debate, and we need it more than ever. One of the things we in SV are most proud of having achieved after six years in government is this: after more than 20 years of increasing class divisions in Norway, the differences have finally begun to decrease. This is important because increasing divisions threaten the Community's sense of trust and cohesion. Increased distinctions mean less health for all, more crime and less disintegration into Community solutions. And there'll be more poor people when class distinctions increase, just because poverty is relative. The government has just provided a breakdown message that states that differences in Norway will continue to decrease. In addition, we need to do more to combat poverty, not least among children. Much of what we have done in kindergarten policy, integration and schooling will help fight poverty in the longer term. The importance of kindergartens for equalisation and social mobility is now well documented. That is why we remove the cash support for two-year-olds, who are paying for not using the kindergartens. But we also need to do more to make it easier for those who have a bad economy today. Activity support that allows poor children to participate in leisure activities is important, free core time in kindergartens as well – and full-time schooling. We also need to ensure that municipalities comply with the social services law and that the situation of children is safeguarded. SV will continue to work for national social assistance standards, and we will have a discussion on how child protection can be a better tool. The climate crisis is all about how we live and how we have organized the economy. We have to go through fundamental changes. We need to share more of the goods – nationally and internationally. In Norway, we have to take responsibility for our own emissions. Next year, we're going to present a climate report. It must and must become offensive. The world’s richest country must show that it is possible to combine a high level of well-being with climate policies that take care of children and grandchildren. The generation contract must be honoured: we shall not destroy the basis of life for future generations, but leave the earth in a better condition than we took from our parents. That means tough shifts and new opportunities. Our government has joined the 2-degree target. We are working for an ambitious international climate agreement. We want so much cut in greenhouse gas emissions that we avoid the most dangerous climate change. Your road is unfortunately alarmingly long. The more important it is that individual countries go ahead and show the world that this is possible. In a situation where we have ambitious Norwegian climate targets to meet, it will be important to ensure remedial action both for the population and for the Norwegian industry. SV works for a climate fund that can compensate for low EU quota prices and speed up industrial change, so that we become both more environmentally friendly and more competitive. We want a more offensive energy-saving policy and subsidies to households, combined with better public transport and measures to improve air quality, accessibility and road safety in urban areas. We want it to be much cheaper to buy low-emission cars than to buy high-emission cars. It is worth living environmentally friendly. This is basically about how we have to choose how to deal with our own children and grandchildren. Are we going to have to tell them that yes, we knew there were dangerous climate change going on, but we were going to do something special about it? Or should we say, when I was young, we feared dangerous climate change that could damage the entire planet, so we settled up. We don't get this choice many times in life. Nelson Mandela once said: «Sometimes it if upon a generation to be great.» The climate issue is the one that will really be tested for whether our generation is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2179	I am pleased that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice have said so clearly that they will not wait for the July 22 Commission until they make improvements, both in terms of preparedness, prevention and much more. They have mentioned a number of points here today. It is important to be aware that the Workers' Party and the AUF were shooting discs on 22 July. We want to be offensive, want to be with the whole Storting – as the debate here shows – to make the improvements we need, in the right way. One of the cornerstones of how we're going to do it is that we're able to combine it that we won't let the mass killer force us into a more closed society, that we shouldn't be naive. Those reasons do not have to conflict with each other. If you, for example, look at something as concrete as getting faster progress in clarifying which streets in the Oslo centre should be closed for safety reasons, it is today, as we know, that you can drive right past the Stortinget with any car, so to speak. The same applies to the U.D. and the castle, and the same applies to the departments. It is important that the state and the municipality now cooperate on a faster decision-making process – a different decision-making process than the one we had in the case of Grubbegata. It doesn't have to mean a more enclosed city. On the contrary, several pedestrian streets at the centre of some points can provide a better urban environment, more accessibility for the public and a more pleasant city centre, if good cooperation is developed on these solutions. The same applies to the assessment of where the departments will be in the future. Of course, an in-depth analysis of the building mass – what is needed to get the building mass back into proper construction, and whether that is possible. A safety analysis shall be carried out. We have to take that into account. But when that is said, I think it is important for close contact – the daily cooperation between the departments, between the departments and the Stortinget, within the government, with organisations and with society in general – that the departments, all that structure, are located close to each other. The same number of tools we have, and how many new things there are in this area, it's important to be able to take, talk together in an efficient and close system, where we're developing solutions together. It is also important for the environment that all the thousands who work in the departments and the directorates of the Oslo Centre can travel collectively to work with the collective offer we have today, which is eaten up against these jobs – the T-Bahn, trains, buses, trams, etc., which brings everyone effective and environmentally friendly to the Oslo Centre. If it turns out that it is possible to keep an overall accessible environment in Oslo Centre, it will, in my opinion, be the best for the country, for Oslo as the capital and for the users. We avoid getting a picture that we are under pressure to implement measures that were not initially desirable. London, which has faced great terrorist threats, has managed to keep the departments at the centre of the city. The Prime Minister also said that we need to get better at all signs of extremism. An important measure here is what the Justice Committee unanimously agreed to when we dealt with the news of organised crime prior to the holiday, that special competences need to be built up in the police that can carry out both open and closed online patrols, just as patrolling the street rooms and providing information to prevent them from getting better, in order to be able to attack crime in a better and more preventative way. Finally, before Christmas 2010, the government and the Minister of Justice presented an action plan against violent extremism regardless of ideological background. The key here is to build awareness, get all environments that can be familiar with what is moving in such a direction, to help prevent, create prevention groups where the police are at the head of schools, leisure clubs, voluntary organisations, etc. and build networks, engage with stakeholders and engage in local cooperation in order to take stock of the foundations of extremism from the very beginning and at the earliest possible stage. This work is linked to building a strong neighbourhood police force, a close-up police force that can have even better contact with people, knowing even more about what's going on. The aim of the Storting to have two police officers per 1000 inhabitants by 2020 is a common goal which is important if we are to get together and rebuild in the future. It will create better living environments, a safer and more open society and not a more closed society. That way it is possible to go in this situation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2198	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The size now takes a break in the handling of case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16:00. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2212	The decision continues to deal with case No. 1 on agenda No 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2215	Much of this debate today has been spent on the terrorist attack and on the financial turmoil in Europe. It's natural in this special throne debate. I want to use my measured 5 minutes in a couple of policy areas that are important for the Left. It concerns value creation and infrastructure. These areas are also closely linked. The left believes that the welfare of future generations will be ensured, we will need many more new businesses in the future. For this reason, the Group of the Left will also be concerned during this period with the framework conditions for the smallest enterprises, entrepreneurs and self-employed. In the autumn of 2010, the left carried out a comprehensive business campaign with almost 1000 small and large enterprises visited. The feedback from managers and employees is that there are particularly three things they are concerned about. The first is a powerful reduction in the form field, the second is to make it easier to hire more, especially in the start-up phase, and the third is access to capital. These feedbacks are very similar to what Left has had in Storting in the past and the current period, for example. The proposal of the left to set a target of 25 pst. reduction in business form load. I believe that it is essential that Norway also set itself the goal of formulating. Without a concrete goal, it is much easier not to do the necessary and important grips. We have proposed our own rule board, which has been a success in Sweden. This was downgraded. Red-greens have gone high on the track in terms of simplification. But today's Business 21st September was entitled "Gissa's Simplification Bluff", and today's Business 30th September was entitled "The Bureau Crates Get Worse". This is how this important business case works. The left has also promoted its own proposal to raise the amount of the obligation to perform tasks to 2 million. kr. In the view of the Left, it will be a targeted simplification measure for the smaller enterprises. In the context of the second important issue for business, namely making it easier and cheaper to hire more people, both in the context of the 2011 government budget and in the context of the revised national budget, the Left has proposed halving the employer’s fee for start-ups. The Left has also promoted a number of proposals to improve the rights of self-employed persons both in terms of the right to minimum deduction and the establishment of fund schemes, payments and advances, and in terms of social rights and the improvement of pension rights. In order to ensure access to risk capital for start-ups, the Left has made proposals for a tax incentive, a fundraising scheme that rewards investors who contribute capital and competence in start-ups for at least three years. The left also promoted its own representative proposal on the distortion of public resources in the start-up phase of start-up start-up companies with high growth potential that harvested many good words during Stortingen's treatment on 10 March this year. Minister of Industry Trond Giske said, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is a thorough and re-examined proposal by the representatives of Tenden and Skei Grande. The proposal addresses many of the various issues relating to the design of effective instruments to promote the establishment and development of start-up companies with high growth potential.’ It is nice and unfamiliar with positive feedback from the red-green ones, but the most important thing is that something concrete is done. So short to infrastructure. When we're around company visits, the conversation often ends up talking about infrastructure, better roads, traffic-safe roads, goods from road to track and accessibility in and around the big cities. There has been a lot of boast from the red-greens about money use on the road and the track, and the Left has supported the transport effort, except that we have granted more to rail and public transport in the big cities. Now I see that the Minister of Transport says that the new roads will tolerate Norwegian winters too, and that is good. Worse is the government's performance project, Follobanen. There appears to be a three-year delay due to well-known long-term challenges associated with the Middle Ages. It must be hard to defend. However, what is gratifying in the field of transport is that there are several state councils that have promised in the election campaign that the state will contribute to supporting expensive urban solutions in and around our big cities. We are looking forward to this, it is important both for the environment and the prosperity of our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2245	I noted the response of the representative, Mrs Grande, to the representative, Mr Tajik, earlier in the debate today. In Denmark, the Left’s sister party has made an important value choice by entering the new coalition government. Here in Norway, the Left is also a party that advocates liberal ideas, is concerned with the individual's freedom, value creation – as the representative tended to talk a lot about now – environmental issues, climate change, good inclusion policies, humanistic values. In the past, the Left has been exemplary in not wanting to support a government of which the Progress Party is part, because the values of the Progress Party are so fundamentally breaking with the Norwegian model of society. Nevertheless, we have seen in Oslo that the Left has contributed to ensuring the positions and influence of the Advance Party. I have a two-part question: Will the Left help the voters to know which government alternatives are on the civil side? And no. 2: Will the Left at national level continue to be the guarantor of the Progress Party in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2252	First, I would like to thank you for a good summary of Left's policy. It was all well-known, and it warmed my heart. When it comes to government issues, I hope to understand what Trine Skei Grande has said several times, that we will give a clear answer in good time before the 2013 elections. So in Oslo they are now negotiating, as the representative is also sure to know. There they have entered into a constellation together with the Right and Christian People's Party. We enjoyed that in Bondevik II, and we will enjoy that in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2262	I'm trying to interpret the answer, but it's not quite easy. It's in a certain contrast to the time before the last big shot. At the time, the Left Leader was the guarantor that the Advance Party would not be in government. Sponheim then sat in the Political Quarter and signed a guarantee that the Left would not cooperate on the State budget with a government with which the Progress Party was involved. He justified it at the time by saying: "I'm happy in my country, and I'm proud to live here. That's why I absolutely don't want Frp in government." That's wise words. He even said that the voters would get to his farm in Ulvik and beat him up if he broke that promise. Then it became known as a red-green majority, so there was no need for anyone to knock anyone up. But I'm trying to find a new variant of the previous question: Is the Left's selection guarantee available from the previous stacking option?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2274	Now we have a new leader, a leader who is also very happy in his country, and I am absolutely sure that she, along with all of us, will make a wise choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2279	There was an cryptic answer to the previous question, so now I'm going to try a specific question that I'm expecting a concrete answer to. There has recently been some discussion about financial taxes, so-called tax on financial transactions. It has previously been skeptical to the Left, but we now see that more and more countries in Europe see that transaction taxes, or tax on financial transactions, are necessary to avoid a new financial crisis and to provide funds for a dwindling state fund. Is the Left drifting towards being a financial tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2286	I would like to come back to that question when we now deal with our alternative state budget, so the representative Holmelid has to wait a little while to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2291	Then I can ask a question about something that has happened, and I might get a specific answer. Now it's like the Left is broadly in line with the Right Party and the Progress Party when it comes to downsaling in state companies. It also applies to the hall in Statoil to 51 pst. This leads, inter alia, to: that the state and society have significantly less control over the company, including: I'm going to get a downsal of 67 pst. to 51 pst. and minor control over the statutes of the company. Why does Left want society to have less control over companies that have so large natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2298	The left is a party that votes for what we're for, and against what we're against, which I think all the other parties are doing. In the case of sales, if the representative had followed in my post, I said there how we would use the money. We want to spend that money on the start-up of new businesses, value creation, business start-ups. We think that in the left hand side is a wise way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2305	The representative Tenden and the left have an commitment to entrepreneurs and small businesses, and it's an commitment we share in the Center Party. I had a line chord exchange with Right earlier today. I have two examples from Tenden's municipality – at least before. Old water and Moods of Norway are examples of companies that have benefited from venture capital in order to get started in a start-up phase, but after that, of course, they have paid back to society these supported many times through value creation. That's why many in the Center Party were surprised when the Left in the previous government participation was involved in cutting these funds and reducing them. Since then, they have had a more constructive approach to it, and my question is quite simply: can we expect the Left if they will be in government in the future, will it be with the Centre Party to secure these important funds for entrepreneurs and initiators across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2314	First, I am very pleased that the representative says that the Centre Party is a party for entrepreneurs and small businesses. I think in many ways we've seen a little bit of it in these years I've been sitting on the Storting. As far as Olden Water and Moods of Norway are concerned, I am absolutely sure that those companies had done just as well with all the tools that I referred to the boring thing on the pulpit a little while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2321	Borghild Tenden and Left refer to simplifications for existing businesses. It's a good initiative, but at the same time, very many of the future jobs are not yet created. It's precisely because they exist as thoughts and ideas inside the mind of founders who have good ideas, and who want to put them into life. Many places in the country need some initial help. A person doesn't necessarily have bold wallets or rich ones that can help them get started. This is precisely why a travel agent such as Innovation Norway, Municipal Enterprise Fund and regional development funds, which we see create many jobs every year. My question is: will the Left fight for these funds and that they should be maintained, in layers with the Center Party, or will they go into the line that they led when they were in government, simply cut down on these funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2328	In the case of precisely Innovation Norway, we disagree with the kind of Innovation Norway that I think the representative is talking about. We want to divide Innovation Norway into two, so that more money is spent on just new businesses and new ideas, as the representative talks about, and not that it is like now – that much of the money is spent on already established businesses. We think that is a major disadvantage. Too little money is spent on new businesses and new ideas. Then we have all the other tools that I've also hoped that a party, a center party like the Center Party, would support a little bit more. But there may be new times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2333	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2337	We like to emphasise that the democratic values we have are firmly rooted in the Norwegian society and the governance model we have. There's reason to emphasize it, and we're going to be proud of it. Nevertheless, there is reason to rehabilitate and further develop a governance model that takes people seriously, that guarantees participation and participation, and that presents solutions that meet people where they live – a governance model that needs to be able to adjust, if necessary to ensure legitimacy. Therefore, we must not forget that there are many people around our country who feel that the distance between the rulers and those who are going to stick to decisions that are being made is increasing. In its area of energy and environment, we receive many feedback on fields such as land management, predators and protection. Many feel powerless to deal with a management that provides too little room for sensible and resilient use, but assesses small and large measures under the same rigid regulatory framework. Some people know that they are at a crossroads with unfamiliar languages and with legal wording, they can't fully assess the consequences. The regulatory framework is becoming more and more detailed, without necessarily making it more accurate. They feel that responsibility is fragmented, that the people responsible are difficult to access, and that there is discretion that is not always as easy to understand. The one who stands for the decision is often far away. Many people experience that the experience-based knowledge they have is set aside and devalued by those who have been delegated to manage the law and regulation. I don't think this is special for the environment, but also in a number of other political fields. When I deal with this issue, it's because we in the Center Party think we have a common responsibility in this room to ensure that the distances between the rulers and those who have to stick to the decisions are not too large – that the law and regulation are not designed in such a way that it creates contempt, and that the administration is transparent and prudent. Within the environment, the red-green government has made several changes that have contributed to moving decisions closer to people, and that are more likely to increase the size of the country. Locally selected, several locations are currently pointing to the possibilities created by the differentiated beach zone management. The country is innumerable, and so must the solutions. We are now beginning to see the results of the differentiated coastal zone management in terms of better plans, better processes, less barriers and bureaucracy and time use for those who want to make sensible action in the coastal zone, as followed by the municipal plans. Another area is the area management of the protection area where a local anchored area is now established. Let me also include the predatory settlement, which was concluded in this room before summer, and which for the first time in many years is moving towards more local involvement, and which takes more seriously the part of the population that lives and feeds in areas with a lot of predators. Now it is important that the predatory settlement is followed up, and that it corresponds to the expectations that people around the country have. The changes that I have mentioned seem to honor government and greatness. It is not that closeness to decision-making, participation and simplification leads to a worse administration – on the contrary. It creates legitimacy, commitment and good solutions around our country. I become more and more confident that the sense is evenly distributed across the country, and that the ability to find good solutions to local challenges is often local. We have to go further along these roads. The government must also focus on how an outsider can ensure local democratic involvement and governance in land management, and how one can simplify and decentralize the government administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2354	In the census, Norway was informed that it will be a leading country in global climate policy. That's good. The right has long called for government involvement in national climate policy. Unfortunately, we feel that the government's words and actions do not always match very well. The government’s announced roll-call announcement on national climate policy, which will follow-up with concrete actions, has again been postponed. We can now have expectations that the government will only promote this in the spring of 2012. There will be an improper gap between recognising that climate is the greatest global challenge of our time and the fact that government is playing a passive role nationally. Right is part of the climate agreement with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In January 2008, we entered into an agreement on a binding national cut by 2020, and we expect the government parties to also relate to this agreement. It will have been more than four years since the climate agreement was concluded, and more than two years have passed since the government's own expert group, through the Climate Change 2020 report, made concrete proposals for a number of emission reductions and presented different menus for a national climate policy. The Climate Change Report reviewed measures at different costs. Everything from socio-economical cost-effective measures to multi-kronor cost-cutting measures per tonne of CO2 savings. We in the Right are impatient. We have, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposed that, since the government's climate announcement is so late, at least we can start implementing the measures that are socio-economically profitable. Fortunately, we can achieve about half of the emissions target in the climate agreement by implementing measures that are either socio-economically profitable or that have a cost below the expected quota price in the EU climate quota system. These are measures that we must in any case implement if we are to achieve the emissions target of the climate agreement. Even so, the government parties have voted down here in Stortinget. How are we to support the population in tackling the climate problem – because we know that national measures will cost – when a majority government that every day could present a national climate plan and package of measures, even postpones the provision of measures that would be socially viable? On the right, the government encourages it to be more active and performance-oriented in its climate policy in the future. Climate is not only a challenge, it also provides opportunities. The right has proposed the establishment of a large environmental technology fund to help find solutions, develop knowledge and technology and provide jobs and value creation in Norway. To the representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who, in a line to the representative Bent Höie, claimed that the Right has voted against this government's proposal on CO2 cleaning: I would ask Thorkildsen to document this, for that is not correct. In the course of this government's time, the right has voted in favour of the government's proposal on the allocation of CO2 management. Climate challenges need to be seen in the context of energy issues. Most of the world's greenhouse gas emissions are related to the production and use of energy. Norway, as a significant energy supplier, will therefore have an additional responsibility to work on these issues together. The Prime Minister was in his intervention in the fight against international poverty. If we are to succeed in combating poverty, we must also succeed in both energy and climate policy. About 1.4 billion people, more than 20 pst. of the world's population, electricity still does not have access. 2.7 billion people, about 40 pst. by the population of the world, depends on the traditional combustion of wood and other biomass for cooking. World Health Organization figures show that 1.6 million people die each year from lung and breathing difficulties due to poor indoor climate caused by indoor cooking over open fire. Early deaths due to the use of traditional biomass in households are higher than deaths from both malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. The UN Millennium Goals on eradicating extreme poverty and hunger by 2015 cannot be achieved unless significant progress is made in terms of energy supply. Energy realities are such that we need to recognise that fossil energy sources will represent a significant share of energy sources in the future, although a strong focus is placed on stimulating renewable alternatives – precisely because energy needs are so high in the future. Despite major investments in renewable energy, the world will depend on fossil energy for decades to come. Oil and gas currently cover more than half the world's energy needs. In this picture, it is important that Norway, which produces the most environmentally friendly worldwide, maintains and strengthens its production on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2391	The interaction reform can be described as a shift in the supply of health in Norway. More responsibilities and tasks are transferred from regional health enterprises to municipalities. More prevention, better rehabilitation and rehabilitation will be essential for the success of the reform. In order to meet the new tasks of the Cooperation Reform, municipalities need to build up both facilities and competences. The necessary competence does not exist there today. Even today, many municipalities have to make economic considerations heavier than quality and professional standards of services because of the pressure in the local economy. In political quarters today, we also heard that the municipalities are afraid of getting less money than expected next year. This is worrying. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have recently stated that the cooperation reform should be phased in gradually. That's probably a truth with modifications. Both co-financing from municipalities and the payment scheme for patients who are ready to print is launched from 2012. However, the new immediate help function of the municipalities is to be phased in towards 2016. Commitment agreements between health enterprises and municipalities are also to be implemented from 2012 – despite the fact that parts of the division of tasks have not yet been clarified, for example: in the field of rehabilitation. It is timely to ask two things: how many municipalities are really clear when the reform comes into force in three months' time? And what happens to the municipalities that are following? They actually exist. It is important once again to point out that this is a reform involving changes in all municipalities throughout the country. Such a reform must be implemented at the appropriate pace. Although some municipalities are well under way, there are others who feel that the reform is almost being brought down on their heads. It serves neither the municipalities nor the patients. Another theme: It is sad to see that the rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance are not among the focus areas of the government mentioned in the census. The system of user-led personal assistance is central to promoting independence and independence for people with disabilities. Such assistance must become an individual right and must be valid from birth onwards. People with disabilities, like everyone else, must live the way they want. Quality of life, independence and mastery of everyday life are the goal. In Sweden, the country co-finances the cost of user-led personal assistance in such a way that the municipalities actually have an interest in the widest possible number of applicants for assistance. There would probably be a good solution in Norway too. I am concerned that we will have a very limited and limited system. The Christian People's Party will also have progress in setting up daily services for residents. Only 9 pst. has such an offer today. Daily provision makes sense in everyday life and relieves family members, and may also postpone the need for accommodation. The Christian People's Party has several times proposed the establishment of incentive grants for the creation of such daily services. Now the government has signaled that this will come into the government budget for 2012. We have great expectations for that. In NOW 2011:11, Innovation in Care, a proposal is presented that they call the Second Interaction Reform. Where the first reform focuses on the interaction between municipal and specialist health services, the second interaction reform focuses on mobilising resources, and focuses attention on the interaction with the family, the social network and the community. The NOU says the following: ‘It is necessary to rethink the interaction between public systems and civil society, explore the new forms of volunteering and focus on alternative working methods, forms of operation and organisation that challenge citizenship.’ Voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households build trust between people, mobilise individual creativity and care, and represent traditions and knowledge that constitute a third way between countries and markets. I therefore finally want to take advantage of the opportunity to challenge the government on three things: ensure that social capital and voluntary considerations become social policy objectives in line with value creation and sustainability, simplify and red tape voluntary and non-profit sectors contribute to the creation of more voluntary centres and focus more on voluntary work
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2432	We live in a troubled time. The debt problem internationally pains us all. In many countries, employment is decreasing dramatically and unemployment is growing. This triggers insecurity, frustration, anger and despair. Social differences will be reinforced and the level of conflict will increase in the future. We have low unemployment and good employment. Over 250 000 new jobs have emerged in recent years, the vast majority of them in the private sector. This is a good example of the creative power and the Norwegian will. Although Norway can be perceived as a safe port, our companies are also hit by lower demand and lower prices on the world market. It is therefore exciting to follow the financial debate in the autumn. As far as I can see, there is no other majority other than the red-green majority who are now able to pursue a fiscal policy that contributes to stable economic development and which emphasises employment and low unemployment. Norwegian businesses can be confident that today’s political majority will not implement policy decisions that initiate negative interest and crown developments, thereby jeopardising employment. In the debate, the right has highlighted the fact that Norway has reduced its competitive ranking and uses the removal of property taxes as a mantra for increased competitiveness. Yes, it's true that there are barometers that show this. But there's a reason to ask the question, why does that happen? The main reason for this is high wage growth and insufficient compensation for growth with increased productivity, thus weakening competitiveness. We are therefore engaged in moderate wage-fixing and wage-fixing that takes the competitive sector seriously. But we do not want to oppose the increase in wages between responsible central parties in a pay settlement. No, we defend that – as opposed to the Right. Another factor is that Norway has high taxes and less flexibility in the labour market. Yes, we have high taxes, and we have less flexibility in working life, but that's a result of a crazy policy. That we have high taxes and good welfare in a well-regulated working life that takes human interests is good social democracy policy. It's nothing new that the Right wants to go in a different direction than the Working Party. But what's new is that the Right avoids talking about the really big consequences of its own policy. When the Right is concerned about the competitiveness of business and wants to remove the wealth tax, I'm more concerned about the Right who will cooperate with a party that offers tax and tax bills close to 100 billion. kr, which refers to the rule of action as a poor financial management tool and considers that it represents a collective political discharge. In such a situation, the wealth tax will appear to be a weak breeze for Norwegian business, as opposed to the unexplained economic tornado that the Right apparently will deploy as co-responsible for Norwegian economic policy in the years to come. The right also avoids in the debate saying that they have taken up local agreements between the employer and the employee as a boost for Norwegian business. This means that the right will take place locally where the balance between the employee and the employer is impaired in the disfavor of normal employees. They avoid saying that working time arrangements should be agreed locally in a relationship between the employee and the employer. They avoid saying that, in order to improve the competitive ranking, the number of temporary workers needs to be significantly increased in order to strengthen the flexibility of the labour market. They avoid saying that they will erode the tax system and reduce the legitimacy of all contributing to the funding of the welfare society. They avoid saying that right-wing policy actually tears apart some of the most important pieces in the Norwegian model, and what I can really understand is that. Because when I heard the Right parliamentary leader today, I can at best say that she could not have understood or understood the concept and system of the ‘Norwegian model’. They avoid saying that their policies imply that the aim of the ranking is to govern and overshadow the need to create a good society for people. The ideology of the right society is ultimately a society in which the most powerful right is the one that is crucial to how to live one's life. Norway is based on social democratic values because it establishes a strong community and security for the individual, where employment is regulated in the understanding that workers are human beings. This society, this country, has been successful through the financial crisis. We can show muscles in a situation where the government debt problem will also affect us. I do not believe in any way that is the basis for changing course or crew – on the contrary. In that case, it would be to sail his shot on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2453	The rule follows an ambitious transport plan point for point: We cut down the journey time on our roads several trains are in the course of the number of traffic fatalities going down we build several times- and cycle roads we reduce emissions in the transport sector we make year after year a more universally designed transport system The government has a heart for the whole country. People should have the freedom to choose where they want to bow. Resources shall be used. Workplaces shall be secured. We are in the process of upgrading and upgrading roads and railways. Our goal is an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system where people live. It was right – and necessary – to give priority to a road and road network that had been neglected for a long time. The government reversed the trend in 2005. Increase Permissions. We're using almost 11 billion. 2011-krona per year more than before the government took over. Norway is now allowing the most money for all the countries of the Nordic region, regardless of the size of the road network. A lot of work is still done here. However, there is good reason to correct your back. We're following a very ambitious national transport plan. Let's do what we've promised. We're the first government to do just that in relation to the national transport plan. I have a new relationship with a sign that tells me about road work. Before that, I saw these signs as a warning about looting and detonating. Now tell us such a sign that on this road too there will be pain. All those who have travelled in the summer have had works, excavators, reruns and the smell of newly created asphalt – from north to south, from east to west. More important than numbers and percentages, is the better way of life for people and businesses: a simpler and safer everyday life. The road is and will be too many, especially in the districts, the most important transport year. The government has soon opened 60 miles with a new, modern highway. It corresponds to the section Svinesund-Trondheim. In the last year, we've seen 16 major road projects. Several new ones will be launched in 2012. We're putting an end to the decay of our highways. Nearly 1000 km of new asphalt is in place during the season. There's a lot of joy happening on the path too. 35 km of new railway is open. Seven crossing tracks extended or newly built. 50 stations have been significantly improved with platform extensions or new buildings. 200 stations will have new information facilities during the year. 600 level crossings are secure. 50 new train sets are coming. The Oslo project will be completed next year. 2500 small and large measures were implemented this summer. Parking facilities, wheelchair ramps and signs are increasingly available. The train is important for developing robust construction and working regions. The train is environmentally friendly transport. Goods capacity shall be doubled by 2020. The target is fixed, even after a summer of extreme precipitation and major damage to the track network. We are in the process of working on a new transport plan. In the spring of 2013, Stortinget will have the opportunity to revise today's plan. The most important thing – road safety: we have to take even better care of each other. 133 people are killed in traffic for the first nine months of this year. That's 133 too many. However, there are 34 fewer than in the same period last year. The first nine months of this year, 491 were severely damaged. That's 70 fewer than the corresponding numbers last year. Earlier this year Sweden was named World Champion, with the lowest figures killed per capita. Norway is now tangent to Sweden. This government has built 36 pst. of all four-field roads and got into place 51 pst. of all secondary tracts on two and three-field roads on the national road network. But that's not how the right-hand side claims, that we can build ourselves into the zero vision. The causes are compounded, so the measures must also be. We're going to continue upgrading and securing the road network. We've increased the dot load for those with driver cards on the test. The tightening of road traffic laws on running in psychoactive mode will be fully effective in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2513	Governments have tempted around in the election campaign and promised money for a number of good road projects. It sounded very good to someone who is happy that it smells as well as sees that it comes asphalt. But I have to say that I got a little disappointed yesterday, when you put out the throne number and I saw what the government was going to add up to. There were two sentences: to build the country and to follow the national transport plan. When we know that it will take a place between 50 and 70 years with the appropriations that the government has now committed, before you have a modern, efficient and real road network, does the Council believe that it is enough at a pace of 50 and 70 years before you have a real, modern road network throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2518	The size of sentences is not their main score. On the contrary, the number of thrones is full of dense sentences with very much content. This is also the case where the importance of transport is precisely that we should follow up the national transport plan. There is nothing that has been shown by previous governments. But we're going to follow up our national transport plan year after year. So I'm going to say to the tempo that if building a modern property had taken 70 years, it has to be more at Hoksrud's pace than in ours. So, as an ambition, we have a modern main road and road network in 20 years. Then we have to build smarter, plan faster, and allow more money. And we do that every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2525	There are other calculations than those from the Progress Party that show that at the government's pace it will take 50–70 years before we get safe roads. But it is good that the government will have a secure transport system. Unfortunately, Norwegian roads are unsafe roads. With the government's extension, it will take a long time before unsafe roads actually become safe roads. Even protection with physical middle parts on unsafe roads is late in Norway, for example. much later than we can see in our neighbouring country, Sweden. A frightening example is the E16 from Trangereid at Bergen to Voss, a road that was new 20 years ago and now has become a life-threatening road. The Council of State has promised mid-terms after 2018. Can the Council of State promise progress in securing unsafe roads by means of physical middle parts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2530	It's right, as Sortevik emphasizes here, midpoints are important on some levels. On the other hand, mid-term measures are important. At the same time, the causes of road accidents are compounded. Then the solutions have to be that way. I was in the midst of some of the solutions in my article, and I can also say that there are also several accident-loaded distances that will get distance speed control. There are measures that the Progress Party does not like, but there are measures that are effective. So to E16, there's a group that's now going through measures in the short term. They will be implemented as soon as they are ready, and the working group will present its setting during the fall. This is a path which must be expanded to fit into central areas. So it takes some more time. I can neither confirm nor confirm that the middle parts will be in place before 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2537	The right is concerned with the renewal and modernisation of the administration. So under the previous government, we established Mesta. The previous Minister for Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, stated at a conference for LO State in 2006: The establishment of Mesta AS led to the full outsourcing of all production tasks. It is expected that from 2007 onwards, the competitive outsourcing will generate an annual profit of 580 million. kr. She went on to say: it is estimated that the efficiency gain on the management side will be 270 million. In addition, kr. The overall efficiency gains thus reach 850 million. kr – which goes directly to the construction of a new road. So the Prime Minister said earlier today that this government is a driver of renewal and conversion. I wondered if the Minister for Transport could tell me where in her sector we see the great change work. And then I don't need the show list again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2549	The most important thing that is happening in the transport sector at the moment is, of course, the implementation of a better path, ranging from maintenance to new paths, and the same thing on the road. The first thing we had to do was stop the decay. It's done. We have strengthened the maintenance, and we have a number of major new projects – some being completed in 2012, some being launched, and some being launched in 2011. One minute a day I should know that Halleraker rejoiced over just that. So for renewal and conversion: there was a solid renewal and conversion before we entered the Ministry of Transport. We're still fixing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2556	I want to focus on a slightly different theme, but which is also the Minister of Transport's full responsibility. It is to ensure a good transport system for disabled persons. We know that it has been a theme on which the minister has been busy. Nevertheless, the Blind Alliance said a year ago that they were terribly disappointed. We know that this helps to shape everyday life. They say 41 pst. rarely get out of the world, that's 42 pst. not allowed to visit friends and family, and that 51 pst. states that they cannot participate in political work. 70 pst. says they are not allowed to participate in meetings and associations, and 23 pst. says they rarely go to doctors and dentists. Is it so that we can now see a little bit more gentle in meeting an improvement in the TT system? This has been a theme for state councils, but we haven't seen any action yet. Would you like to see an action in this area now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2565	The creation of a universally designed society is one of the main purposes of government, and it is in several fields. That's why we have a system that we're still facilitating – we're going to say – more seamless travels from one way to the other for more people to come out. That is because we have had a system of experimentation with so-called collectives in district funds. Can they be used better in TT schemes? We've now evaluated that, and that's how it gets. That arrangement continues. Then there are several states that have been involved in another attempt. There we now see that more groups get a better offer, and this work will continue over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2575	I want to talk about industrial policy, about the financial crisis, about work for everyone and about Norway, where we are doing well. We came out of the previous financial crisis with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe – and it is still a target for us. We have all the possibilities to do it in the future, but it's not that we're invulnerable. Just because of the crisis in Europe, where, in many countries, there is a major sovereign debt crisis and high unemployment, as well as low growth – these are our main trading partners – it goes without saying that we have to be careful. We need to pursue a policy to ensure that interest rates and the crown price remain low, so that we can maintain our competitiveness, and so that our export companies can sell goods and services to Europe and the rest of the world. Budgetary policy, the main objective of which is to secure jobs and competitive business, is to ensure that we are closed both for the next year and for generations to come. Many of us remember 2002–2003, when high wage increases at home gave rise to interest differentials and a strengthening of the krona. This led to 25 000 fewer jobs in industry in two years. That shouldn't happen again. Therefore, we must keep track of our own houses. Because we have stayed in good times, under the financial crisis we could use more to counteract this. Autumn 2008 came a financial crisis. When the budget was presented, the right-hand side said that we did too much, that we spent too much money. But then they said that we were doing too little, and that it was too late. History shows that the measures were timely and that they were dosed correctly. Working for everyone is the most important goal for us in the Labour Party. It will always be. The most important response to poverty is that people have work. The most important thing for economic growth is that people are at work. In fact, out in Europe now, many young people start their adult life by becoming unemployed. This is wasted with the forces of youth. I have to say, as they say in the poem, "You shouldn't save on the forces of youth." Nothing can feel worse than society doesn't need you. In order to achieve the objective of working for all, we also need to pursue an active industrial policy. We bet there we are good, where we have special advantage, and we bet on simplification. Our target is 10 billion. NOK in simplification for enterprises from 1 January of this year, and we are well in progress. Before this year we took away the auditor's obligations for small limited liability companies. This was a strong desire from business. The government has now submitted a proposal to reduce the share capital to NOK 30000. Now there should no longer be any reason to start the NUF, or so-called Norwegian foreign-registered company. In addition, the government has reduced its own entrepreneurial selection to look at barriers to business creation. We would like to welcome more entrepreneurs, and especially more women entrepreneurs. The selection is intended to give impression of how you can improve the way you get more entrepreneurs. As a former member of the Women's Network in Follo, I see that only what has been done this year with the obligation of auditors and the reduction of share capital are measures that have both been requested and can cause more women to to tow. Another obstacle, of course, is capital. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has announced new funds to Investinor. This means that the state can participate and invest in the good ideas, which can also be involved and create future jobs. The wealth tax is often debated here in Stortinget. That's a lot we can say about him. But no matter how a person turns it around, he gives large incomes to the community, incomes that can be used for infrastructure — for example: to a new double track between Oslo and Ski, or to well-being and education. In the VG today, we can read that the Progress Party believes that there is no need to tighten the budget. Many, including Right, want more to go to the police, more to infrastructure, more to education and more to municipalities. The list of requests is very long. But if we are to have a responsible budget, we must still have a low interest rate and not too strong a dollar rate, so that we can secure our export industry, we must give priority. There is no tax cut at the top of my wishlist.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2596	A lot of this debate here today has been about the events on July 22, the terrible events that happened then, here in Oslo and on Utøya. The terrorist acts of July 22 came surprisingly to the Norwegian population, and most of us have asked how this could happen in what we perceive to be the safest country in the world. Since then, many questions have been raised on a continuous basis. It shows, among other things: that we have to think about security in another way, and we have to take certainty more seriously than we probably have done so far. I want to make it clear that those who have participated from the police, from civil protection and from non-governmental organisations in connection with these events, did a fantastic job then and after. But the question must be, are our systems working well enough? The size has not yet received a separate explanation of the events on 22 July and of the functioning of the public emergency response apparatus on such an event. I wish the government had offered to come to Stortinget and make such a statement. This has also been requested by the Group of the Party of European Socialists in its own letter to the President of the Grand Duchy. If we had been given such an explanation, we could have a broad and good debate here in Stortingen on whether our preparedness and our systems are working as we should be demanding that it should. A lot has obviously not worked, and there are obvious defects in the emergency gear. We have seen both through the evening post today and through the debate so far today that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice have assumed responsibility. However, the question is whether it is right that the same persons responsible for the emergency response apparatus should assess their own role and efforts. The question is whether the government has had enough focus on preparedness in its day-to-day policy exercise. How could we have so big a hole in readiness, and what has been done to make sure that this can't happen again? These are questions that we're asking ourselves. We have also seen that the government is pushing ahead of the July 22 Commission. It's too long to wait a year for us to get the answers on the table. We don't have time to wait, measures must be put in place now. Do we still have a poor preparedness? These are questions that we need to get clear answers to. The size needs to set clear objectives and quality requirements relatively quickly, and the Progress Party, as it is known, has promoted a number of proposals in these areas over the last few years of the Justice Committee. We have to make demands for response time. What do we expect when it comes to response time, and when it comes to helicopter standby? Do we need more police helicopters, and do we need 24-hour standby in all parts of the country? What is the equipment situation of the Emergency Corps? Do we need a standing police force just on standby? We know that the emergency team's employees have many other tasks as well. Is coordination between agencies, and especially between police and defence, good enough? And can a small country afford not to have good enough coordination between two such agencies? Should the Special Command of the Defense Command be sent to this type of mission, for which it is very well trained? And once again, I will address the need to have a separate investment budget for the police, something more and more demand. And, not least, all graduate police students need to get a job in the police immediately. We have to end what we've seen in the last few years, that these go straight into the unemployment line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2613	Europe's economies are faltering, and the world economy is once again faltering. It would be naive to think that weaker growth internationally will not affect our country as well. The reason for this is obvious: purchasing power and demand from trading partners are weakened — and greatly weakened — if the most serious scenarios occur. Then our future competitiveness will be crucial. The right will help to keep the economy in order and have responsible budgets that work properly in relation to interest rates and currencies. But the order of the economy is not just to stick to the rule of action. It is also crucial to what a user spends money for, and the additional use of oil money has not been designed since 2005 for research and education, transport and growth-promoting tax relief. The order of the economy is also to ensure that Norwegian companies can develop and win in competition on international markets, and see how we can improve our competitiveness, innovation and technology development. Security for jobs, businesses and a continuing high level of well-being are being created through increased awareness and competitiveness. Increased value creation is essential for our future well-being. Then we must create more, not more treasure. Conditions must be created throughout the business world to improve competitiveness. We have had the reverse in recent years in terms of competitiveness. The cost level compared to our trading partners has increased significantly. Increased cost levels should provide an even stronger focus on innovation and other measures, but we are lagging behind on all international measurements. The economic crisis of which we now see the bow provides a country with an orderly economy and great resources like Norway, with a great opportunity to go out with enhanced competitiveness. There's a lot of work done by the government. There is a lack of an overall strategy to increase competitiveness. It is enough to mention keywords such as growth-enhancing use of oil money, removal of wealth taxes on working capital, removal of inheritance taxes, reduction of taxes on labour, better conditions for employee participation, more flexible labour environment law, simplified planning and building laws, increased depreciation for industry and not just for agriculture, increased appropriations for transport, improvements in the TaxFUNN and targeted use of resources in Innovation Norway – a menu of largely the entire opposition stands together. The representative Martin Kolberg asked Right at the morning meeting to document politically and intellectually that competitiveness has been weakened. I don't know if there's any evidence of my intellectual capacity that I'm able to read the government's budget papers. For 2011, it is written that the labour costs in industry in 2009 are 47 pst. higher than in our competitor country. In addition, several annual international measurements show that we score only mediocre and continue to fall in innovation capacity and competitiveness. We believe that there is some evidence that our country's opportunities are not being exploited well enough. The representative of Kolberg can also ask Roar Flåthen and Trond Giske about their intellectual evidence in order to believe that the tax on wealth, and in particular on working capital, is very unfortunate for jobs and investments. One of the most important things about property taxes in today's business today is that he has come up with this on his many company visits. Yes, company visits are recommended. Talk to companies, try to run one or try to own one, and then one will come to the same conclusion as Roar Flöthen, that the property tax is a handicap for investments and jobs. The only place you can't hear this message is where foreigners have already taken over. Last week the nutrition committee was in Kristiansand and visited Elkem. There the new Chinese owners boasted that they had invested considerable amounts. With Norwegian ownership they would have had a quarter of a billion dollars less this year to invest in the important company in Kristiansand. It gives an illustration of how to increase competitiveness. I believe that there should be relatively little intellectual evidence – or, for that matter, the capacity – to see this link between reduced taxes on operating resources and providing the basis for a continued strong welfare society. I think the LO leader and Minister of Industry Giske have done that exercise well. I also challenge the representative of Kolberg to try. I also challenge the head of the nutrition committee, Terje Aasland, who had just spoken, to try the same exercise. It is not that, by pointing to increased competitiveness, we will reduce the Norwegian salary level – no, we demand compensatory measures that I just read a long, long series of, and that the whole opposition stands by. I think that the most dangerous thing we can do is act with the self-righteousness that I think the head of the nutrition committee just acted on in his post, that everything that has been adopted and decided by the government is cut to the ground, and even if Norwegian industry thinks otherwise and you can hear it by almost every business in the whole country, it doesn't change that perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2641	I have a blog on the Internet. It's become very modern, and I've been tipped off using such channels. I've had a lot of pleasure in that. I have received many recordings from many of those who have voted for me, and have not voted for me. I found out that the last update I had on my blog was in the morning of July 22. When I wrote an article and I left it on the Internet. It was about the debt crisis in Europe. That's what I did before I went to the island. I was on Utøya with Gro and was far away from the perpetrator. This has been a very dramatic summer. It has been dramatic for the country, for the youth and for the relatives who have lost their loved ones. But it has also been combined with a very serious economic situation. I don't think the Norwegian people or – what to say – this assembly has taken on board how dramatic it can be for the country if it really goes wrong. Only this week have we had new examples of stock exchanges that have fallen – in Norway, in Europe and in the United States. That stock exchange is nothing dramatic in itself. At least I'm not of those who are worried at night by it. But it often has it that if it rages systematically over time, it alerts something that will also affect normal jobs when time comes. That is why we must take it seriously. The problem is that this crisis – as far as I have understood and been explained by the best professionals – is very different from the one we met in 2008/2009. I just want to establish one thing, and that's that we're ready to act again. The Labour Party will take responsibility if the problems in Europe are addressed to the Norwegian economy. And it's even more important than ever, when we may have a little too little understanding of the crisis among some people in Norway considering how serious the situation is, that we have responsible, moderate politicians who dare to say no to something else, show moderation and take the situation seriously. I very much agree with Mr Fleet's representative who had just spoken, that one thing is to conduct a responsible economic policy. It's demanding enough in itself in many ways. There is no call and mass or – what to say – many lobbyists who come to Stortinget and make flaming speeches about why public budgets have to be held back. That's the opposite. And in the case of tax cuts, it almost doesn't go one day without me having a phone, an e-mail, a picker or an organization that will have lower revenues for the community. It is also presented by a lot of parties here in Stortinget, combined with well-meaning proposals on the expenditure side. The problem is, it's not going to work. It would be full leak at both ends if you were to say yes to everything. It is not then possible to pursue a policy that is economically responsible. But then it's still true that even if you do, you have many, many billions of dollars to spend on what we think is the most important thing. That is what this debate beyond the evening, the rest of this autumn and up to 2013 must be about, in my opinion. Are we going to stick to the rule of action and the responsible use of oil money, or are we going to take the chance of what some suggest might be possible, with the dramatic consequences it might have? I don't know. It's like gambling: it's possible to win, it's possible to take the chance, and it's possible to take the risk, because then the win can be very big. But it can also go terribly wrong. Should taxes be cut by tens of billions, or should we say that the welfare level we have today also requires funding and defence of the tax level? At least I will. And for example, we're going to. pursue a policy that takes the climate problems seriously, or should we leave it alone and believe that man-made influence has nothing to say for some of the climate problems we are facing? The Stoltenberg government has been responding to these challenges and has been standing up for the whole and the details for six years. Once again, I notice that it is a bit of suffocation – if it is parliamentary and allowed to say here from the pulpit – or a little hint of grinning at the nose when, as every single day, we are measured on that policy, the whole, the responsibility, squeezing away at the fact that it may be time that we are not being measured up against the kingdom of heaven, but against a real alternative. Among other things, there must be: these basic questions are answered. I hope that this debate tonight and beyond in the autumn can contribute to that. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I think it is sympathetic, after the summer we've had and the problems we're facing, that the opposition repeatedly uses the head of the LO's clues about the weaknesses of the wealth tax as the only rewarding line to the country's prime minister. There is not much to agree on when you have to embrace others who stand far from the opposition in such an important first line chord shift after a dramatic summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2656	While the world around us is in deep financial crisis and unemployment in Europe is record high, we experience a throne speech that shows that the red-green government will conduct an active business policy across the country and bet on areas where we have special leadership to create values. But how does this relate to the reality we're experiencing? We feel that this government should export industrial workplaces despite the fact that there are natural and environmental benefits that underlie the desire for such an establishment. Unfortunately, there are many examples of such misunderstood symbolism policies that cost too many future jobs. This is done by saying no to Alcoa’s application to build a melting plant for 15 billion. kr in Hammerfest in Finnmark, and this is true in relation to the Ironman project on the Tjeldbergodden in More and Romesdal. At the same time, one also says no to exploit our natural gas resources domestically, which could have given many hundreds of new jobs in a country that sorely needs them. The slogan of the Central Party that the whole country should be put to use, thus, does not apply in Finland. Thus, the so-called comparative advantages that enable parts of the country to lift very profitable jobs are completely neglected. It is by no means to pursue an active enterprise policy and bet where one has special intentions to create values and increase value creation across the country. It's turning your back on the good authorities, that! At the same time, Norwegian Hydro in Qatar is a large producer of the same raw material, aluminium, and energy is naturally based on gas. The question then is how the central government member of the Labour Party and LO leader Roar Flåthen, who represents thousands of hopeful industrial workers, can accept this. Are there the positions of the Socialist Left Party that will be passed in the long advertised and postponed climate message, or are there LO and Roar Flöthens? Repeated releases of the climate message tell us that here the government is about to dictate, because one cannot unite these two positions from two of the premiscibles of the red-green government. In an interview with the Address Paper on 22 August this year, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim confirms that a strong drag is going on. The regrets of the repeated releases of the climate communication are the insatiable situation that it creates for both business and society. The climate message and its consequences are still in blue because the government is unable to present it because of a large internal discomfort. The great internal usemja also emerges from the fact that Ola Borten Moe gets his passport signed by its own party traps, we read in various media on 1 September. Snorre Serigstad Valen from SV states that the state council of the Red-Green Government, Ola Borten Moe, does not speak on behalf of the government when he declares the fight against environmental movement. So the question is, what does a government council do when he makes a statement, he talks on behalf of himself or on behalf of a government? In spite of all these problems, the opposition has been called for coordination. This is not a threat. There is probably an argument to hide big internal problems. One also has to ask how Roar Flöthen can accept to sit as a hostage in a government party that lacks power of action, and which now ensures that hundreds of workers are permitted in More and Romesdal. So now this government has its hands in jail for six years. So the original date for the Ørskog-Fardal line to be finished is behind us. In this period, residents and businesses in Central Norway have paid billions in extra costs, and this has cost both competitiveness and jobs. Is this what the trade unions have paid for the quota to experience? Of the more joyous things the nation has recently experienced, is a new, gigantic oil find that can give Norway significant additional income in the coming years. In this context, the Government’s Progress Party asks for an overview of how these resources can be used to improve Norwegian infrastructure and speed up the improvement of community maintenance. This is good environmental policy, it is good value creation policy, and it will also reduce the number of deaths in traffic. But the paradox is that parts of this red-green government would have seen that a large part of the petroleum sector had been shut down. Environment Minister Erik Solheim is afraid that democracy is unable to resolve the climate crisis. China’s social model sets a certain standard for SV’s climate solutions – whether it is willful or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2684	First, a reflection after listening to a lot of the debate: there is a surprising amount of eagerness from representatives of the government parties to discuss who will take over the government power after them in 2013. In each line change with representatives of the opposition parties, it has been the main theme of the government parties. It testifies to a relatively defensive government that does not show belief in its own solutions. It is crucial for the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian well-being that our leading trading partners and allies in Europe and in the United States come back on track. In Norway, it is often difficult to take over the dimensions of the crisis of individual countries and, in fact, of our entire world economic order. A lot is unclear, and it's quite obvious that sailing a best case scenario will be incredibly demanding. As Erna Solberg was exemplaryly clear earlier today: this is a crisis with great national variations, where the starting point is very poor political choices and delete practices in individual countries to as much as a systemic problem in the EU. So it is not the case that all countries in Europe are equally hit. In this situation, it has been striking to hear representatives of the government parties – perhaps especially represented by the chairperson of the Central Party – who seem to take good note of developments in Europe and feel that it is solely due to the EU or the euro. There is a perspective that suggests a lack of understanding of the crisis, its causes and its solutions. Not least I dare remind you that 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU. If EU demand drops dramatically, it will have a major impact on us and on our future well-being. It is clear to the Right that the solution to Europe’s problems needs to be found precisely through coordination and cooperation. So then the EU is a crucial factor in finding a solution. The current crisis is simply too big to deal with for individual countries alone. At the same time, today's crisis offers new opportunities. Norway is in an almost unique position to make a successful transition, but it will also require clear priorities in Norway. Our freedom of action can be used financially and abused. I noticed that Jens Stoltenberg said in his post today: «Knowledge and education are a priority area». Nevertheless, there is not one word about knowledge in the census. It should be striking. It's the most important tool we have to ensure our future well-being. That's what's supposed to create security. That's what's going to create growth in our future. Knowledge and competitiveness will give us the security we need in the future. In the EU, on the other hand, this recognition is very clear. I have been in meetings with many of my colleagues both in European Parliaments and in the European Parliament for the past few weeks. There is now an increasingly strong consensus that the road continues through competence, knowledge, technology and innovation. It's also a recognition that it's going to require clear priorities. The European Commission recently submitted proposals for the long-term budget, from 2014 to 2020. There are some strings left: it's about investing today for growth tomorrow. It is a matter of significantly strengthening education and training programmes. Research and innovation should be strengthened equally significantly. So we are going from budgets of EUR 50 billion to budgets of EUR 80 billion. What the President of the European Commission, Barroso, says so well is that investing in young people is one of the best business plans available. It's about creating global action, and it's about helping to create jobs and ideas for the future. In this picture, Norway could have taken so much better advantage of its opportunities. We could have been foremost in helping to secure our value creation, our competitiveness and our prosperity. Instead, we see that the area in which Norway is lagging behind is on innovation, on research and on knowledge. Let me say like Barroso: investing in young people is the best business plan available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2705	Siv Jensen and her party's policy is the biggest threat in Norway for my generation – not primarily because she wants to treat people in flight from dictatorships in Iran and Ethiopia as criminals until the opposite is proven, and therefore is willing to deprive them of fundamental human dignity, namely to be treated like other peoples, not primarily because she plays on dark brown strings and claims that Norway is being snuffed out. All of this is bad and deserves to be discussed thoroughly. We are many here at Stortinget who remember that it was with racist money from South Africa Anders Langes Party's first election campaign was supported, which led Carl I. Hagen on Stortinget – and the rest is history. What is bad, and which makes Siv Jensen so dangerous, is that she continues to dismiss the issue of climate change as man-made, with a slight ‘debate’. And that's right: whether climate change is man-made, debated, in the same way as it is discussed in the United States about God has created every creature on earth, or whether we have evolved as a result of evolution. I don't think there are any research environments in the world that support the theories of creationists. Remember, then, that's how the United Nations' collection of scientists, the climate panel, determines that it's 95 pst. climate change is likely to be man-made. If Siv Jensen and her party believe that 95 pst. Probably not enough, I'm glad she's not going to decide whether children get shot at the ice in winter, and whether the ice is safe. If it's 95 pst. The probability of it cracking and jerking and people falling through, and Siv Jensen chooses to say that yes, yes, but it is debated whether the ice is safe, I am more fond of kids than what Siv Jensen is. I believe the fight against dangerous climate change is my generation's most important task. But people are confused. Because if everyone says it's the most important task, why don't politicians all over the world agree on an international agreement that can solve these problems? The reason is simple and complicated: the solution to climate issues is basically about distribution – distribution of the right to pollute with CO2, because it is when energy is generated from oil, coal or gas and forest, that CO2 is formed, and that energy is what creates growth and development in poor countries as well as in Norway. It's just that Norway is one of the six countries in the world that use the most energy per capita, and we emit about three times as much CO2 as an average Chinese and eight times as much as an average Indian. And you know what, President? I don't know anyone here in the hall who dares to see a Chinese man or inside his eyes and say, "You have to stagnate your prosperity and cut the emissions in order for Norway to contaminate many, many times as much as you and have it much, much better than you." And you know what, President? I think it's quite reasonable. But are we willing to cut in Norway? The right and forward parts will not electrify the base, but will operate with oil extraction. The right and the front row are on to expand wider highways across the country, but they close their eyes completely so that it will lead to increased CO2 emissions. The Progress Party believes it is a scandal that we are not building up a lot of new industry, which will increase pollution in Norway. So we're coming up with a climate report in the spring, and it's taken a long time. But it's an exaggeration to say that we've got drag help from the right to propose concrete reductions in CO2 emissions. The climate communication needs to make drastic cuts in transport and oil extraction, which are Norway’s climate hosts. Indeed, industry has slowly but surely changed, and it will continue: new low-emission aluminium production technologies, new industrial developments in many areas, which provide opportunities to approach the zero-emission society that we all agree we need to approach. Environmental requirements and industrial development go hand in hand. And the funny thing is that one of those who showed me the best was the progress party rapporteur at Austevoll, he showed me some examples. He showed me how stricter requirements for the discharge and purification of ships in Europe have led to the development of Austevoll technology to clean the bottom of ships without the paint falling off and creating environmental problems locally. He showed how HMS requirements led to nutrient development at Austevoll, sucking up all the paint that comes with sand blasting, thus creating a new nourishment that gives growth on Austevoll. Norway is the world's luckiest country, because we have eternal hydropower and eternal wind resources, and we're going to use the opportunity to solve climate problems to develop new industries. Siv Jensen can destroy a lot for the Norwegian multicolored society and for the climate on the globe. But I say like Lars Vaular, it's just one thing she can't stand, and it's garlic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2738	There are several people here today who have talked about the international financial and debt crisis, and that is not without reason. Many countries in Europe are now struggling violently – with unemployed people, especially many young people, there is a massive cut in public welfare, and many are unable to keep their homes. On Sunday, the Greek government decided that 30,000 employees in the public sector have one year to find a new job, and that in the year they are left, they will decrease 40 pst. in wages and It's serious, because it's common people this crisis is going on. Many in Norway experience the economic turmoil as something that happens elsewhere and that it does not affect us here at home. It does. It is therefore crucial how we, as a country, deal with the situation. It is not by chance that we managed through the crisis in 2008 and 2009. It was a deliberate government policy, with targeted instruments that provided it. We're a country with an open economy, where we're dependent on exports, and we're definitely not isolated from what's happening outside the country's borders. That's why it's important that we use the tools we have to limit the negative consequences. This means, among other things: that we have to limit the use of money, and that is never popular. We've heard a lot about that today. But if we're going to be able to keep unemployment down, we have to. We have an industry that is incredibly vulnerable if the crown gets stronger and stronger. For them, the tabloids say that it is now cheaper to leave abroad, everything else a happy-replish. The fact that many countries experience a debt crisis and have to cut public welfare is in itself bad. But the strong budget cuts also have another international dimension that I think is important to say a few words about, namely the consequences of spending money on aid to the world's poorest. When a country is hit hard financially, it is easy to cut aid. We are now experiencing a drought disaster on the Horn of Africa that is escalating to massive famine, especially in South Somalia. International assistance is therefore absolutely necessary to limit the worst. I am therefore pleased that the government has decided to increase emergency aid there, and I believe that we should continue to give priority – within a tight budget – to have a high level of our overall aid effort. It's about solidarity, and it's about taking responsibility. Wars and disasters lead to many people being forced to flee their country. Some of them come to Norway. As a country with solidarity traditions, it is important that we call on the institution of asylum and that we conduct a fair refugee policy. It is also important that we pursue an integration policy that ensures that everyone is included in our society. On July 22nd, fundamental values in our country were attacked, and I notice that several representatives in this debate have spent a lot of time addressing the preparedness and situation of the police following the terrorist attacks. That, of course, is important, and I think that discussion welcomes everyone here. But I also notice that there's not as much focus on the values that were attacked that day, and especially on the fact that we have a multicultural society. I wish that was also a major issue in a debate like this. The multicultural society in Norway is a reality. I have read in blogs and reading articles both in advance and after the terror that some people make it as if there is something we can choose to have or not. My position on this is: it is not. We have the population that we have. We're a multicultural society. I believe that we in this Chamber should spend time on how to get more and better inclusion and how we can further develop our democracy. And in the case of democracy, I must allow myself to make a heart attack: I think there are many of us who were disappointed in the vote on 12 September, and that is reason for concern. Even after all that focus we've had in the summer around just using the voting rights, we felt that too many people chose not to use it. It's serious, and we should take time to think about it. All parties have a responsibility to take the debate on how to reverse that trend and change it towards the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2762	There's a lot going well in our country. The prospects and possibilities ahead are also good, if we manage them wisely. Even though Norway has managed well through the financial crisis and economic turmoil around us, we are not, however, unaffected by what is happening outside. Many countries suffer from low growth and high unemployment, while budget deficits are high and government debt is high at the same time. The most important thing we can do in such a situation is to keep order in our own houses. The crisis management during the previous financial crisis was possible because we had kept money in good times. From an international point of view, Norway has done well. The activity has continued, and the unemployment rate in us is now lower than the average for the last 20 years. Only in the four Western states have 60,000 new jobs since the red-green government started operating in 2005, and 78 pst. of these have come in the private sector. The West and the Agder counties are our most important export groups. In a election brochure for the Advance Party in Hordaland, Terje Søviknes stands out and calls for a Western uprising, the ultimate goal of which is that the Red-Green Government should be replaced in favour of a government that has ‘focused on value creation and fair distribution’. Westerners are further encouraged to show muscles through voice settings in the municipal and county options. This has been done by the voters in the West, and the results are now well known to us: the Progress Party has not made any worse choices in recent times, and the Labour Party remains the party that has the highest uprising in the West. The Westerners know, even when it comes to political choices, that if the Progress Party had implemented its policy, much of the export industry in this part of the country would have been wiped out. The enormous sums they want to spend from the pension fund, combined with giving tax cuts to the richest of nearly 90 billion. kr, would give an overheated economy close to night, with too strong a dollar price and high interest rates. And then it's exactly the jobs in the West that's gone first. In contrast to what the representative Grimstad of the Progress Party claimed a little earlier in this Chamber, the Labour Party and the Government are offensively also in the field of oil and gas industries. The working party will always let the care of value creation and jobs lead tax cuts to those who already have a lot of money. The Western economic promise is the Workers' Party's offensive 12-point programme for growth to continue with a new 40 000 jobs in the West by 2016. It will not be such that the government or the Labour Party will invent and maintain tens of thousands of new jobs in the West. It is mainly the Western countries themselves that have to stand by, but the general framework and targeted active industrial policies will greatly facilitate desired development. Investment in renewable energy, oil and gas, the leading maritime food region, common travel strategy, maritime industries, competence and education, simplification of the instrument, active state ownership, prudent framework conditions and innovation – all these are only keywords and headlines on what the Western economic promise is all about. All good teams have a very good point with a number. 10 on the theme. It has also been promised in the West: ferries-free E39 which bind together the West. Good infrastructure is fundamental to business. A free E39 will bind together the most important value-creating and export region in the country and will therefore have great value both for the West and for the country. Our clear goal is to realize a ferries-free, upgraded and traffic-proof transport corridor from Kristiansand, throughout the West and to Trondheim. Our goal is to start Rogfast as early as possible in the second part of the planning period of the national transport plan. Thereafter, the projects must be ordered as they are technologically feasible and funded. And nothing will please me more than if Hordfast will be the next major ferry settlement project on the Coastal Road. It will mean a day-free connection between the two largest metropolitan centres in the West. It would be good for all of us who live between us. And I think that both stavangers and mountainers would have a good time getting things easier to do with people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2783	First of all, I have to be allowed to say that there has been a strange debate. It has fluctuated considerably, from one extreme to the other. We've heard the head of the nutrition committee tell Stortinget that if the red-greens were not allowed to continue, it went wrong with Norway. Yes, not only did it go wrong, but it was really going to be very serious for the country. We have heard Heikki Holmås hold one of his election speeches to try to be elected as the leader of the Socialist Left Party, where he among others. a 30 to 40 year return in time, and discusses how some lots were funded, or hint about it. When it comes to such positions relating to funding, and from the point of view of an SV representative, who so many in that party, also in management, a short time ago almost had to distance themselves from their Marxist positions, I don't think it exactly is taken so seriously. What I want to talk about is just business. I want to go into part of what has been said about how great business is. Yes, a lot of business in Norway is going very well, but I don't think we politicians should take all credit for that. I actually think many of the jobs that we boast of, not necessarily have come because we politicians have done such a great job, but because the founders are out there in society. The representative of Romemetveit tells us how red Norway has become. But it hasn't actually been, neither has the West. I would ask that the representative Rommetveit not stop in Rogaland, but go a little further up in the West. The West Coast is actually relatively blue, because the creation lies there and the will to create something, create jobs. Yes, that's actually what makes us have the well-being we have in the country, that we have some entrepreneurs and some small and medium-sized enterprises that stand on every single day to make sure that we have money for the well-being we have in Norway and that we're still going to have. It's also a little interesting to have joined the media in the last few days, because we've heard about the amazing food policy of the government, and how united you are, and how important this is. Yes, that's very special, what we've seen in the last few days related to any help or purchase, as a matter of fact, by the company REC. So we have one representative from the Socialist Left Party who goes out in the media and says that here the state has to buy, we have a leader of the nutrition committee who is more in doubt, and we have a Minister of Industry who says no. It's going to be exciting to see what's going to be the final result. So this is the bad course. In the field of oil and gas operations, the working party is fortunately trying to achieve some progress and increase extraction. Then we have the Socialist Left Party, which is sitting in this government, which is going to have the same rough course, but which says that no, maybe we're going to hold back, maybe we're not going to extract this oil. The red-green government actually went in its time to choose that it should end the chaos. We have chaos almost every day when we see how the individual politicians from the different parties express themselves. Of course, some of the things that have really been the subject of debate today are Lo Leader Roar Flåthen's statements related to the property tax. I think it is commendable that the LO leader draws up that debate. I also hope the red-green politicians are willing to take that debate, and not go straight to the trenches. For small and medium-sized enterprises, this feels on the body every single day. We also have a situation where non-resident owners of enterprises do not have the same requirement as Norwegian owners. Yes, we have a way to go. But I think the red-green politicians too could go a little bit quieter in the doors. I think Norway will grow further in terms of well-being and creativity, when the change has occurred in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2800	The mismatch between what different red-green representatives have described in this debate as Right-wing policy, and what the voters perceive to be Right-wing actual policy, has increased further, if possible. It has to be a little sad situation that you from the red-green team have to caricer Right Policy in order to create some commitment around your own. Instead of taking the Right challenge of creating security through knowledge and competitiveness, there are some such small niche debates that are certainly fun at the debate-camp of red-green youth parties, but that do not take root in the debates that Erna Solberg and Right have tried to travel. Making use of all the good forces is an incredibly important part of the Norwegian model, which many representatives have been involved in, but it is the Right that has the policy: the Bergen tour attempts for the benefit of employees and the people who have been given the opportunity to take care of them. It is respect for the individual human being, and it is common and quality in care in practice. Making sure that businesses are given the opportunity to hire more, or perhaps actually survive, by removing the property tax is a contribution to more community – the Norwegian model – and to people retaining or getting a job. Turning up a school system where, unlike Finland, special education comes in too late, with too little. To get more skilled teachers, and not least to keep them through more continuing education so that they can provide students with the training they deserve, is to have respect for those who need it the most, those who do not necessarily have a resource-intensive home that can overcome the shortcomings that the school has. Community therefore is not defined by whether politicians have first taken in some tax credits and then granted further over public budgets, or passed laws. Real fellowship is when people together with others have a life they feel is good to live and have the surplus and the ability to share it with others. Then we have a welfare society and not just a welfare state. For many years we have had this in Norway in many ways, but it requires a balance between public intervention and the individual’s right of destination and the ability to take responsibility. Knowledge, quality and competitiveness also have a direct impact on justice policy, for Norwegian prisons are full of people who have fallen through the school system, who have not received enough qualified help in health care and who would certainly want a job that could have been created by making it easier to establish and operate businesses and who have the ability to create a direct impact on the amount of crime by other means. In those countries where the financial crisis is raging, it is evident that important social measures are being introduced, while the police are losing resources due to the need to balance the budgets. That could be a valuable experience. The more worrying it is that a rich country like Norway already has a police force that needs to balance ICT investment against new employment, where the darkness figures for profit crime are increasing because people are losing confidence that the police are at all capable of doing something with what they see as serious, where, in a few years, police helicopter preparedness has been halved for periods, where we see a wave of rape that causes more and more girls to be rescued, and where it is seen through the fingernails of Hell’s Angels’ lack of embezzlement because they had no resources to take it seriously. The 22nd July Commission shall make its statement. But there is also much to suggest that our preparedness did not meet our targets and that there was a disaster to get enough attention to our level of preparedness. Therefore, the Right hopes that the Justice Budget being presented will be treated in a completely different way than it has been in the last six years, with an open dialogue with the Stortinget where not everything has been hammered in stone in advance and just knocked through. In the end, I would like to stress what Mr Soreide said about the job done in the EU and beyond to combat the financial crisis. One thing is that you are against Norwegian EU membership. But I have to honestly say that parts of what has been said by the red-green, with the centre part in the head, I think it's been very hard to listen to. Some forces that you would prefer not to be associated with have very similar positions on the EU as a system to be confused. To be honest, I think we owe the countries that are doing everything they can within the EU system to create security for themselves and their citizens, a much more harsh attitude than what I think the Senter party in particular has shown today. For some of the arguments that have come, it has been directly repugnant to be a witness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2817	There's a lot of good politics in the staging hall, and there's a lot of interesting stuff to listen to. Nevertheless, where the policy is put into practice, and where it has consequences for individuals, it is not in this house, but in the individual municipality. Municipalities are the largest welfare producers in Norway. Therefore, the municipality’s budget is essential for each of its inhabitants. It is the municipalities that provide primary and kindergarten facilities, for water and sewerage, for renovation, for nursing care and for good care for the elderly, to mention something. This diversity of tasks is solved in different ways, not least because Norwegian municipalities are very different. They are different in areas, in population, in development, and not least in terms of challenges. Norwegian municipalities are different, but they have the same problems. The Generalist Municipality is a political choice in Norway. Whatever the size, the municipalities have the same responsibility. It's an expression for the Norwegian equality process. Municipalities have many tasks, but some are more important than others. Primary tasks include health and care for the elderly, school services and kindergartens. One of the primary tasks of all municipalities is to provide good care for the elderly and to be able to provide health care facilities or happy day care facilities if necessary. In order to be able to offer in line with the need, several such sites need to be built across the country. The Government has met the municipalities by increasing the grant to both nursing homes and nursing homes. The new rates for grants are NOK 890000 for a health care centre and NOK 670000 for a nursing home. This was notified in November 2010, with retroactive effect, so that the municipalities that have built up sites that have been promised after the establishment of the scheme in 2008 are paid at the new rates. Feedback from municipalities on this change is that the grants are targeted and good. Nevertheless, we must note that there are too few places built in relation to the need. The aim of the working party is that there should be full coverage of hospital or day care facilities by 2015. We're going to continue working to achieve this ambitious goal. The working party has high ambitions related to the care of the elderly. Our elderly or needy people should know that they will receive an offer if they need it. We're not going to have residents in the municipalities who fear the future. It shall be safe to age in all Norwegian municipalities, and the care of the elderly shall be dignified and with respect for the individual. We know that there is an increasing need for dementia services, and that is also a priority area for government. To achieve these objectives, we need to build on and further develop the professional environments we have. Recruitment to the field is an important task both for municipalities and government authorities. Many municipalities are reluctant to build new sites and express concern that they will manage the operation of the new sites. These concerns take the Labour Party very seriously. Of course, we cannot build new places that the municipalities are unable to operate. Each municipality is responsible for its own economy, investment, debt-building and operational levels are adapted to the income and expenditure of the municipality. There is an improvement potential in most municipalities. This space cannot be cleared centrally, it is a local task, a task that needs to be solved in cooperation with users and employees. However, the state must also contribute to increased transfers. Increased tasks shall have increased transfers. The Workers' Party will give priority to local economy in front of tax cuts. For us, a good local economy will always be a guarantee of good welfare services in all Norwegian municipalities. This priority will be firmly established.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2834	The government will strengthen, improve and renew welfare systems, while maintaining sound economic policies. Work on renewal must be systematic and continuous. The public sector shall be sound and sound. Only in this way can we avoid the drastic slime cures that we see in other countries. The labour force is becoming the scarce resource in the future. The labour force is our most important resource. It is important that public servants are well qualified and motivated to provide their best for the community. As more and more people become retired, it becomes even more important that those who work work work on what is most important. Therefore, we must replace unnecessary administrative procedures with digitised solutions. This is how we can use the country's most important resources for core tasks: good schools, care services and hospitals. Public services are for people and businesses. Users shall have a good meeting with the public. The work on Clear Language has produced good results, but there is still much to be done. But there's room for improvement. We're systematically working on that. The government will give priority to establishing more digital solutions both because many prefer it and because it can reduce costs. The government's work on digital first choice will continue to be of high priority. Investments in ICT are also important in tough times. It requires good joint solutions and at the same time efforts in individual sectors. In the debate earlier today, more have been concerned about the non-profit sector. In the healthcare sector, many NPISHs make an important contribution as service providers. These have a high level of competence and commitment, and can contribute to new solutions to the welfare challenges. The state and the municipalities depend on the efforts of these providers to ensure good services for the inhabitants. The government will further develop the interaction between the public sector, voluntary actors and non-profit institutions serving households. The non-profit sector has requested the establishment of an interaction agreement with the public sector. The Government welcomes this proposal and has already held a first meeting with voluntary organisations. The aim is to have a cooperation agreement ready during the spring of 2012. The State budget presented details this work. The bombing of the government quarter and the massacre on Utøya affects us all. The unreal became real. In 2004, the Directorate of Police carried out a risk analysis related to the safety of the government, the staff of the departments and the building stock, and recommended 197 actions. Most of the measures are in place and, on 22 July, one significant measure remained, the closure of the Grubbegata. The work on this was in progress and should have been completed in these days. The question of the safety of the government quarter has been raised by many after the bombing. It is both natural and understandable. This is a theme that the 22nd July Commission is also looking at. For those who have their daily work in the government quarter, it has been demanding weeks. Colleagues have gone away, others are badly injured. The workplace for a lot of people is blown up. In addition to the Prime Minister's office, six departments must be prepared to be located in temporary premises for many years to come. There will still be time before we can say something more about what's going to happen to the government quarter – if we're going to tear and build a new one, if we're going to repair what we can and build something new, if we're going to have the government quarter as assembled as we know it today, or spread the buildings around the Oslo center. The question of safety will play an important role in this work. We have to plan for the unmistakable. But in the work we're going to have the values of an open society. Different considerations must go hand in hand. Other factors that need to be taken into account include: functionality in modern workplaces, urban development, cultural memories and of course economy. The government goes into this work with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2869	On 18 March the Ministry announced that the Council of State was in good dialogue with the voluntary sector in connection with a meeting with Freedom Norway and non-profit organisations providing public health and welfare services. Voluntaryness Norway then made four points that they thought were the reason why voluntary organisations often came out of public supply rounds. The VAT represented by the voluntary sector is not requested. Voluntary organisations have pension obligations that new actors do not have. They do not get contracts that maintain operations regardless of fluctuations in public needs. The contracts entered into are of short duration. Governments challenge organisations to help provide documentation on several of these sites. My question is: have the voluntary organisations obtained such documentation, and what is the Council of State going to do to improve the framework conditions for the liberal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2878	As I said in my post, we have had a good meeting with representatives of the voluntary sector. We agree that we should conclude a cooperation agreement where we put some overall framework in place. We have received some documentation from non-governmental organisations on some of the issues mentioned. I agree with the voluntary organisations that it is important to put in place good systems where we can maintain the quality that voluntary organisations represent in the non-profit sector. It is important that we be able to ask for it when we make tenders. In this way, we can also value it and allow it to become a competitive advantage when voluntary organisations submit tenders to the public. Then there are some other issues that we still need to have a good dialogue with the organisations about. I feel confident that we will have a good interaction with the voluntary sector, so that they will continue to be an important partner for the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2889	It is positive that one year and three months after the Stortinget asked for it, the Council of State has now had the first meeting with voluntary and non-profit actors to look at the possibility of an agreement based on a model from Sweden. The problem is that such an agreement will not affect the way in which private volunteers and health care providers experience the bidding rounds and conditions there. These are also experiences from Sweden. The Committee therefore asked for the following: ‘In addition, the Committee considers that there is a need for the rapid establishment of a working group assessing the specific conditions of non-profit and non-profit institutions with a view to resolving the acute problems experienced by institutions.’; Now the government has spent a year doing what Stortinget thought was important in the longer term. When is the Council of State going to do what the Storting thought was urgent, and that is acute?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2900	It is not right that we have had one meeting with representatives of the voluntary organisations, we have had constant contact with them. We've had several dialogue meetings with the volunteer organizations. We agree with the non-profit organisations that it is important that we deal with the international obligations we have under the EEA Agreement and that the agreements we have with the voluntary organisations are based on the fact that we have the EEA Agreement rules at the bottom. Then we have already – and I think it is registered by several, including the voluntary organisations – started work on changing practices. Other types of agreements have been concluded in Bufetat. I have also registered that there is great satisfaction among many of the ideal actors about the changes made in Health South-East regarding the conclusion of agreements there. So the government has taken the signals that have come. We've started working on this, regardless of whether we're going to set up a cooperation agreement – which I'm sure we're going to do too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2909	Exactly a year ago, during last year's throne debate, the Christian People's Party let all its political weight – and as is well known it is not small – in just getting the majority in this Chamber to take seriously the critical situation of the ideal businesses. Since then, we have requested and requested action from the government to do the necessary grips. It has been a heavy job to put that power of action into life. Now we hear that the Council of State indicates that change has begun. When she has previously answered questions about ongoing agreements with Health South-East, she has said that there is something Health South-East itself has taken the initiative. My question is: is it now implemented a new policy by the government, so that new conditions are created for the ideal actors, or do we still have to wait and see?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2916	As I said in my main post, we have started a work to establish a cooperation agreement. In parallel with this, individual departments have reviewed their agreements. Some of those agreements have been modified. But you have to realize that there's a lot of contracts going on here. It's not just going in and doing this in the middle of a tendering period. So any changes that come, we'll see when new tenders are put out. So, as I said, it's important that this happens within the framework of the EEA Agreement. We're working on putting in good practice. It is possible to conclude agreements that have a longer duration than we have had so far. We have seen that in some of the tenders that have been put out. There are also several tenders reserved for the non-profit sector. But here there are also areas where it is not possible to reserve the ideal sector for all contracts, because there are not enough providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2923	It's fascinating to hear social democrats talk about voluntary sector, because otherwise you never hear so much blues rhetoric. This is about service providers. Here's what we're talking about competitive advantage. These are tender procedures. There is no one to mention that the voluntary sector can actually have other things to contribute than just being a service provider to the public. I think it's strange that you can't see the values that are also in it, when you look at the large tendering procedures. If you are going to have a tender in a market, it assumes that there are many operators and that they are there again the next time you have to tender. If not, any tendering round will kill any competition. Does the Council not see that the way in which this is organised actually helps to kill the other offers, so that the next time you make a tender, you relate to a market with a purely monopoly? Then you're dealing with a system where the other actors don't exist. Then no one else can actually offer anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2930	As I said in my post, I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that the ideal actors have many qualities that it is important that we take care of. Therefore, it is important that those who demand services from them have the capacity to create a competitive base that also takes advantage of what the non-profit sector has, among other things. that there are many volunteers who can contribute to health and care services that are not necessarily the ones after which they are crowned. It's among the things it's important to put in place, and for which it's important that we have good practice. Then I do not agree with the representative Skei Grande that the challenge in this area is that there will be too few actors. What has been the case lately is that there have been very many new non-governmental organisations that want to participate and compete for the public tenders that are being made. We also have to bear in mind that when someone loses in the non-profit sector, other ideals often win the same offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2937	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2940	It has been partly violent flirting with the Christian People's Party today, and it is always nice to get flirted with. But sometimes it goes a little over all the boots. I see that in our country today the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande from the Workers' Party says: «Social democracy and the Christian message are two sides of the same coin.» Then I think the representative mixes the Trinity and the tripartite cooperation, and forget that there is still a difference between the ten bids and the rule of action. A few years ago, when the Bondevik government had to go off after the 2005 election, it had a rather different sound. It is quite funny that when one is freed from the left to the Christian People’s Party, one points to poverty policy. But then the Christian People's Party has actually sat and guided the policy of poverty, along with the Left and Right. In 2005, honey was not met from the left, but from slaughter and mouth. Kristin Halvorsen went, as we know, to the frontal attack on the then Prime Minister Bondevik. She promised to remove poverty in Norway, abolish it, and said it was about political will. So we know that the result since then has not been that poverty in Norway has been eliminated, it has actually increased. So the question is, when you have realized that poverty has still increased with a red-green government, which said it was about political will, and that it could be eliminated with a pen stroke, what should you do? Should one then be tall and dark and continue to hang and say that you have also failed? Or is it actually an opportunity and an opening for a new type of poverty debate in Norway? I think the latter is the case. If we are to invest for the future and secure the Norwegian welfare state, it is crucial for the Norwegian economy and well-being, but it is also crucial if we are to manage to lift those that have fallen out of the welfare community today. But perhaps the most important reason for the important welfare measures we adopt in this Chamber is not that they maintain the well-being of those who are strong enough to stand on their own and manage themselves, but that they help to strengthen the opportunities of those who have fallen outside. I think we can get a new and better debate on poverty if we stop staring blindly at income statistics. Don't get me wrong: I think economic differences that are too big are a problem. It's a udder, and it's an injustice in countries where the economic differences are so great that someone lives without a roof over his head, while others live behind big walls. But that is not the situation in Norway today. The truth is that income statistics in Norway will vary from year to year. If there is a bad year on the stock exchange, differences in Norway are likely to decrease, but there is not one child in Norway who has had increased opportunities for this reason. It is also paradoxical that the economy in Norway is doing well, because the red-green ones – because of the way we measure poverty in Norway – have to see that at the same time, relatively, there have become several poor children in Norway. I don't think there's any point in continuing a poverty debate that's just about big slogans and not about real content. First of all, I think we need to realize that too many people who are poor in Norway – because there is a poor person in one of the richest countries in the world – are low incomes a symptom and not a cause. That is, poverty cannot only be measured by your income situation there and then. It is about drugs, it is about lack of integration, it is not least about social marginalisation, it is about mental problems, about health problems — about a whole range of issues. If we are to have a new and better poverty debate, we need to tackle the problems in a completely different way. Firstly, we need to focus on work – not just to strengthen Norway’s well-being for the future, but simply because work is the very best vaccine against poverty. Lack of labour participation and poverty are interrelated. Then we can't stick to a system where too many people in Norway are getting less money left if you go to work than if you don't go to work. It's unfair to ask people to get up in the morning if they lose money on going to work instead of being home. Point two: We need a more targeted poverty effort, targeting those who actually need it the most. This means, for example: that all municipalities in Norway should have equipment loans for poor children and quota payments, so as not to be excluded from leisure activities simply because their parents do not have income. Paragraph three: We need to address the debate on integration-poorness in a completely different way. The largest group in Norway, which is poor, is also people who have arrived recently, and this is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2964	For the Workers' Party, there is a crucial link between creating values and sharing goods. Creating and sharing are politics, short-cut down to three words. Norway’s revenues from oil and gas resources are important, but the largest proportion of its value creation is provided by Norwegian women and men. So our wealth is based on school and education for everyone and on high employment. The government has left Norway safely through the financial crisis and is equipped to face new crises. Because we spent money in good times, we had economic muscles for massive counter-cyclical measures when the crisis came. And unlike other countries, we've done this without borrowing. We have come safely through economically difficult times and today have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Employment in Norway is, in fact, at a historically high level. Oil revenues have given us great opportunities, but also new challenges. Throughout history, very many countries have had large revenues from natural resources, but not all have succeeded in creating low unemployment and good welfare services for the population. Norway also had problems with unemployment in the 1990s and early 2000s, although we had large oil revenues. Therefore, the government introduced the action rule in 2001. It has led to stability in state budgets, and Norway’s economy has become less vulnerable to short-term fluctuations in the oil price. Clock oil money policy has evened out such fluctuations, fluctuations that would otherwise create great difficulties for Norwegian families. In practice, this means that in periods of high activity and risk of price growth and high borrowing rates, we should use less. Conversely, in periods of increasing unemployment and low growth, as in the financial crisis, we are going to spend more oil money. The oil wealth has passed 3,000 billion. kr, an almost incomprehensible number, but still no more than approx. three State budgets. This means, as I said, that the largest value creation takes place in enterprises on land in Norway. That's why we need a Norwegian business that goes well and creates new jobs. Since we took over in 2005, 250,000 new jobs have been created in the country and two out of three have entered the private sector. It shows that the framework conditions for value creation are good in Norway, and the task of politicians and governments here is to facilitate by investing in knowledge and research and making it easy to start new businesses. Continued growth for Norway depends on continuing to invest in education and research. We are one of the OECD countries with the largest proportion of the population with higher education. The knowledge and skills of Norwegian men and women as a whole are the country's most important bank book, or, to use another picture, the country's largest and purest oil field. This year we'll spend 25 billion dollars. For research, Norway is the country that spends the next most money per capita on research in the world. If we go back to spring 2008, the share prices reached historic peaks both in Norway and the United States. Raw materials prices rose, and in mid-July 2008, the oil price was 150 dollars. From September 2008 the scene was a completely different one. The American authorities let Lehman Brothers go over the end of September 15, 2009. The world's stock exchanges fell, Oslo fell from a peak of 520 points in May to 180 in November. The timing and intensity of such events can never be predicted with precision. But it's alerts if we want to see them. In 2007, sub-prime loans with no coverage actually started in the United States. Today, it is unclear whether the euro zone is finding its way out of national debt crises in parts of Europe. The price for individuals is unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2979	In many speeches from the red-greens throughout the day, there have been repeated allegations that the Progress Party is responsible for irresponsible economic policies and they themselves for a responsible economic policy. Yes, it is even suggested that if we had been in power, Norway would have been a new Greece. These statements must be based on the saying that if a lie is said many enough times, it eventually becomes a truth. Well, this claim is never going to become a truth, as repeatedly confirmed by the Statistical Central Bureau, by assessing the annual budgets of the Progress Party. I think that the government parties by resorting to such claims show a low level in the debate, by trying to create a picture that they themselves know is not right. The truth is that countries like Greece are in this crisis, among other things. because they have not streamlined their services, they have failed to deregulate public services. This means that competition is largely absent, and there are monopolistic conditions in large parts of society. This makes society run inefficient and expensive. This has been, and is, a large part of the challenges in Norwegian society as well. There aren't many years since there were major discussions in this room about the conversion of the Vegvesen production department to Mesta AS. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party raced against the conversion which led to a much more efficient operation. In retrospect, they have realized that it was not so stupid to privatize Mesta, and it has not been converted into a monopoly company. Worse, there was the reorganisation of parts of the Railway Agency. Here the red-greens managed to stop a process that would give good economic results. The same applies to the use of rail tenders so that the NSB got competition, I could mention in fleet several areas. The use of oil also attacks the red-green ones. Unfortunately, the red-green difference between investments and operations is not apparent. But there is a difference between increasing the operation of a society and shifting some of the investments from shareholdings abroad to investments in, among other things. road network in Norway. Such relocation of investment funds would lead to far more efficient transport solutions, which in turn had given greater returns to business — once again a more efficient driven Norway. Here, too, we are at the great difference between the responsible economic policy of the Red-Green Party and the responsible economic policy of the Progress Party. The Progress Party wants a society that uses taxpayers' money in the most effective way possible. This means that many of the tasks that we are doing today through difficult public systems or schemes could have been carried out to the benefit of private actors. The fact that railway, nursing home or school is run by private actors does not mean that the welfare society is raking up. This, on the other hand, leads to a more effective society in which, as politicians, we can choose whether to reduce the level of taxation or improve the supply. The Progress Party has, on countless occasions, proposed the elimination of unnecessary laws. Just think of the burdens that we impose on the population through the Law on Planning and Building! Not only does the population spend so much money as it is so difficult to deal with ordinary people not being able to fill a building application, but it also makes it necessary to employ a lot of bureaucrats in the state, county and municipality. Simplification of legislation in this area and in all other areas of society could lead to a large number of bureaucrats who have to deal with, grant, reject and control different applications and concessions being able to exploit their good skills in the private sector. Such an improvement in efficiency does not, however, lead to a rapprochement of the welfare community. My contribution is to show that the responsible economic policy of the Progress Party is based on an efficient and deregulated society, where the population receives a good welfare offer with low taxes. Where the Prime Minister claims to make taxes and a well-developed welfare society incompatible, he bases the status quo, not an efficient driven society where competition and freedom of choice replace monopoly and coercion, how efficient transport solutions and tenders replace poor road standards and monopolies. So the Prime Minister has the right not to run a society with low taxes and a lot of well-being if one assumes that it should not be competition, but monopoly, coercion and not freedom of choice, inefficiency and not efficiency. But it's not such a society the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e2996	In 2011, extreme weather has been felt both in Norway and in the world, in Norway by large floods in the Gudbrand valley and in the Holtålen, internationally by drought on the Horn of Africa and by large floods with 7 million displaced persons in Pakistan – that is, exactly the kind of change that climate scientists have long said we would have. No one can say that there is a one-to-one relationship between natural disasters and climate change, but we are therefore within the very kind of change that has been predicted for a long time and that the world has to prepare for. Many countries are now taking important steps towards more climate-friendly societies, while climate negotiations are not progressing in the way we want. Step by step, however, we cannot expect in Durban in December that we will have the comprehensive climate agreement we want, with binding targets from the most important countries. Norway is involved in the Durban negotiations with three important ambitions, because that is in the three areas we can achieve. One is how to continue the Kyoto Protocol, the other is how to establish the green fund that was adopted in Cancún a year ago – Secretary of State Kjetil Lund is one of the three leaders of the Interim Committee – and the third is how to ensure that the climate negotiations now taking place in Africa address the main problems of Africa: adaptation to more extreme weather, more drought, dramatic changes and the conversion of agriculture in that way. The theme that will almost certainly be most controversial in Durban is how to continue the Kyoto Protocol. It is important to remember that the Kyoto Protocol now — with those countries that have agreed to a new commitment period, the EU and Norway — does not cover more than 15pst. of the emissions. In other words, this is an important part of emissions, it has a great symbolic significance. The Kyoto Protocol is important because the construction works located there, with market-based mechanisms, are what we are building on. At the same time, the Kyoto countries alone cannot solve the global climate problem. Norway has taken two major initiatives. Together with Australia, we have put forward a proposal that is now being discussed a great deal internationally, with the aim of ensuring that the Kyoto Protocol is maintained, but that it also takes place within a framework where we can see the way towards future binding agreements. In particular, the United States is willing to make greater commitments. That's the one lead. The second track is that we have taken the initiative to cooperate with what we can call the progressive industrialized countries. It is mainly the north-west parts of the EU, but also countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and others. There are countries with which Norway has almost identical views regarding international climate regimes. We're trying to develop common positions to use it to put pressure on the United States and other large emitters, but also to engage in dialogue with Japan and the countries that are in the Kyoto Protocol, saying they're not willing to go into a new commitment period. This is going to be difficult, and it is not possible today to see how it goes. At the same time, there is a lot of positive outside the negotiations. Some of the global initiatives, perhaps in particular the Norwegian-supported rainforest programme, are moving forward rapidly. Last week I was in Indonesia and met President Yudhoyono. But much more important: he spoke to half his government, to central business leaders, to civil society and to the media, in short, Indonesia's population, and declared that he would use the last three years of his presidential term to protect and save Indonesia's rainforests. He had also promised in passing his daughter, so this was central to him. So it was an emotional, strong speech. We're talking about the most important rainforest in the world next to Brazil, so it has fundamental significance. Other countries also do a whole lot. Australia is now introducing an allowance system, probably with one or two votes in national Parliaments, but they are going to. Germany has said to have an atomic-free society in 2021. This will lead to a drastic improvement in renewable energy technology and other areas in Germany. And China is becoming world leader in one technology after another in this area, whether it's wind power, fast and or solar cells. Norway must follow up on the same track as the countries, which have taken a lead, I have mentioned Indonesia, Australia, Germany and China in various ways. We will do this in the context of the Climate Communication presented to the Stortinget early next year, where the challenge for Norway is to make similar reductions in the four main areas we need to reduce – oil and gas, industry, transport, and building energy use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3019	The climate message has been waitin' for repeated releases. One can understand, when one observes the three parties representing the government, and the ones they play out, that it is imperative for this government to bring in the pen a common climate message. So it's going to be exciting to see what's going to be drilled into squares from this government. Is it Ola Borten Moe's war on environmental organizations, which gets criticism in its own hands, that the critical emission of the fleet is reflected in the government, or is it SV, who has more faith in China's ability to reduce emissions? How will the Minister for the Environment describe the climate message as far as one has come now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3026	The party of progress must have one – I must say – impressive belief that attack is the best defense. It is a party with a party leader who stood on the pulpit this morning and could not explain whether climate change is a real problem or not and attacks the government parties to disagree between themselves. There is no doubt that there are nuance differences between the three parties in the government, but there are much less nuance differences between the three parties in the government than there are in the Progress Party. Because in the Progress Party, some people stand up and declare that climate change is a major problem that you want to spend billions of dollars in combating it. Others say that there's no problem at all -- there's just some clothes and nonsense that socialists Erik Solheim has found, and again others that yes, maybe, on the one hand and on the other, and that there's scientific uncertainty. So let the Progress Party first settle its own house. Then they can start attacking others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3035	The President is in doubt as to whether customs and clothing are a parliamentary expression, particularly in the climate debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3038	So am I.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3043	Let me first praise Erik Solheim for his introduction and that he there had a general look and drew a good picture of what we are facing from climate change. The situation is undoubtedly serious. In Norway, we have both technology, competence and capital to be an important part of the solution to climate challenges, and we have the opportunity to demonstrate that a low-carbon society can be combined with high growth and high living standards. But we have a lack of time, and I hope that the Council of State does not defuse me with such an answer as he gave to the previous questioner, but answers me seriously. Does the Council of State believe that it is still possible to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement by 2020 with the timescale set by the government? Let me add: Does he acknowledge that it will be more difficult for every single day the government is postponing the concrete measures contained in this communication, to achieve the objectives we have shared?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3052	The answer to that is very clear. The longer it takes, the harder it becomes to achieve the climate target in 2020. At the same time, I ask for an understanding of why the climate communication is at risk. We've given one reason, and it's the true one. It is very, very difficult to keep the progress you should have in this, given the situation that has been in the government apparatus since July 22. Seven departments have had to be on a constant moving foot. My wife has moved three or four times. She's not central to this, but it illustrates the problem. And at the same time having the necessary focus on the inter-ministerial hearing as a difficult message as this is, I think everyone understands has not been possible. But we're going to do our utmost to get it out, and I share Astrup's concern: the longer it takes, the harder it gets to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3057	The Minister for the Environment gives a good overview of the challenges of international climate negotiations. It is good that the Council of State has an overview of the situation in international climate negotiations and challenges, and that we have an active Council of State and an active government in international processes. State intervention gives a good picture of the slowness of international processes in relation to the challenges we face. The question is, what do we do then, more than push those negotiations as much as we can, given that they go too slow? Well, what we have left behind is what the SV parliamentary leader was in the past today, namely cutting domestic emissions and showing the world that it is possible to go ahead, and that it is possible to do so. The question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State confirm and guarantee that when the government comes with the Climate Communication to the Stortinget, there are at least as big ambitions for domestic cuts as were in the climate agreement almost four years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3066	I can confirm, and the Prime Minister has also explicitly stated, that the government will present a big message based on the ambitions of the climate agreement. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, I would like to invite the Christian People's Party, but also the Right, to a great deal of work on how to achieve those goals. These objectives will not be easily achieved and will require significant reductions in all areas. The reality today is that we have a decline in traffic, and we have a decline in industry, while at the same time we have an increase in greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas, and unfortunately they are among those that are most difficult to do with. There we are based on decisions that the Storting has often unanimously taken, or at least by an overwhelming majority. So it's going to be hard to reach this, but the ambitions and what we're going to present, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3073	Let me first join the Council of State's reasoning where he ended now, namely that it is demanding. We fully understand that. There are many difficult balances to be made, and there are many different considerations that need to be weighed against each other in order to achieve goals. So I have a lot of understanding for that. However, we knew that when we made the climate agreement. I note that the Council of State believes that the events of July 22 have delayed the work. I cannot argue against this, but what I can say is that the climate report should have been delivered before 22 July. It would therefore be more honest for the Council of State to say that this is also due to internal contradictions within the government. But my question, which I did not get an answer to instead, is: Does the Council of State still believe that it is possible to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement by 2020 at the pace set by the government, at which, in practice, only seven years will it be possible to achieve these ambitious goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3082	There is no doubt that it is possible. Finally, there is a question of costs and political will. So yes, of course it's possible. But I have to be allowed to add, without being very polar, that it does not help if, in the meantime, one proposal is promoted after another that will lead to an increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It is clear that a decision by the Stortinget, for which the Right has agreed to start oil drilling in Lofoten and the Westålden, would increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Starting gas power plants without cleaning, whether in Hammerfest or Fränna, will increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, some of the views of the Right in the field of transport will also increase rather than reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. So difficult is the task that not only should we have them significantly down in the new year, when this comes, we also have to resist the temptation in this house to constantly propose decisions that will increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3087	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3091	There is a lot that is possible in seven years if you have political will. We can agree on that. But if the pace is what the government has led up to now – it's almost four years practically without action since the climate agreement – then it's going to be very difficult. It's always interesting to listen to the drumming debate on Stortinget. A lot of good, sensible words are said across party boundaries and from all parties. Today's debate has said a lot of good words about human cohesion and trust and the qualities it gives us as a society. But then it's interesting to ask, where is the most basic learning of caring for others, social skills and communities? It's in the interaction with our closest parents and siblings, we early in life develop the most basic qualities that enable us to live together. That is why it was strange to hear the Prime Minister’s comments, which included only as far as the family policy concerned in one sentence, and that was the conversion of the cash support, where he said, ‘These are heavy and demanding changes, but they are absolutely necessary to maintain the secure joint solutions.’ Is it in the red-green logic that there's a difference between family and community? I would like answers in the debate as to whether that is what you actually mean. I would like an answer in the debate as to whether this is in fact in line with the views of the Central Party. Is there a difference between family on the one hand and community on the other? The removal of cash support for two-year-olds gives Norwegian families with two-year-olds less freedom of choice, less flexibility and less time together. After the red-green logic, it will strengthen the common solutions. In the Russian era of my coal – a few years ago, as most people understand – one of the butchers in many festive layers was the style of Luse-Frans by Lillebjørn Nilsen. The song is about the filleter Luse-Frans, who for a few decades wandered back in the streets of Oslo and collected scrap in the mud. In the song it says: «I best remember your hat in your forehead, which the children thought hid your lice. But Mother said, "Show respect to this man! He shakes the peace between our houses." I have wondered a lot about what Little Bear Nilsen might have meant by shaking the «peace between our houses». Since life has given me some more insight into how society and the community between humans work, I guess a little bit more about what this mysterious concept could mean. Life teaches us that today I am strong, and you are vulnerable. Tomorrow's the opposite. Life teaches us that today I'm the normal one, and you're the different one. Tomorrow's the opposite. Life teaches us that a link is not stronger than its weakest link. That's why it's the way we treat the most vulnerable among us, which shows our quality as a society. That's the way we meet the most vulnerable among us, which is our everyone's insurance that we ourselves are part of the community, both today and tomorrow. That's why maybe this mother of Little Bear Nilsen's shows us some of the secret of living together. "But Mother said, "Show respect to this man! He shakes the peace between our houses." We are faced with major questions and discussions about the positive use of genetic and biotechnologies for the good of man, where we are to set up fence posts so that we avoid new class divisions and discrimination and avoid downgrading people with less or different cabin baggage than ourselves. Foetal diagnostics and surrogati are just two keywords among many more for what this discussion should contain. Human vision is being tested. Because does it matter whether we view children as something that can be ordered, or whether children are a gift? Do we make rules and laws that make it possible for people who seem to be disabled to be removed, or whether we protect their lives? It's our elections as a national assembly that decide whether we have anyone who's going to shake the peace between our houses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3117	Norwegian health care services are very, very good, said the Advancement Party Per Arne Olsen, before he correctly added a couple of supplements that nuanced the statement somewhat. His statement that treatment queues are growing is at best based on lack of knowledge. In January of this year, the average waiting time at national level was 79 days. In July, half a year later, waiting time was down for 62 days. There's a drop of over 20 pst. It's best notation. Never since you started to measure it, you've had such a short wait. I congratulate all employees and the Minister of Health and Care, and I say, "Continue like this." We who have granted more money for patient treatment this year also have every reason to be satisfied with the development. This must still be of high priority – yes, highest priority. High priority must also be given to quality and patient safety work, at all levels at all levels, political and professional. In addition to the series of measures taken by the Council of State for the longest time, the notification of this basic part of healthcare is important for increasing the safety of good and proper treatment. Interaction reform is an important reform full of opportunities, and most municipalities are committed to starting and achieving the agreed and good objectives of the reform. The country is full of pilots, often cooperating municipalities. The interaction reform, as is usually the case, also provides opportunities to problematise and focus on difficulties if you think it is a meaningful job. Once again, it is those who have the least confidence in local democracy who cry out that the state must control more and that the brakes must be turned on. This is actually a rather flexible reform. There will be a great deal to the municipalities of how and to what extent they will phase in the reform. The changes must take place in an agreed and secure manner, where municipalities and hospitals harmonise the changes to be made and implemented for the benefit of patients and users. But we shouldn't have too much of unnecessary time use. Today, the Minister of Health and Health has also launched a guide to cooperation agreements between municipalities and hospitals, which are required by law from the new year. So now it's also in place. Again: The Per Arne Olsen Progress Party spoke of its infallible belief in local democracy. Faith issues are far a private matter, but I must point out that when his party wants to centralize, consequently state, preferably privatise and thus also red tape the care of the elderly, he allows local politicians to adduce in a very important area of society. Perhaps belief in the market is so strong that it is also not intended in the long term to have special political governance at the centre. The Progress Party and the Right have a little in common – they should have. Bent Höie likes the exchange right better than the right to complain. Exchangeright also seems to sound a little bit further to the right of the Right. But that creates differences between people. I think the exchange right will be limited where the dividend option is small. The right-hand side is also enthusiastic about tenders, but they do not like the consequences of tenders – that some people logically lose their tenders. In many respects tenders are essential, but not everything must be done as it has now been. We have experienced tendering processes and results we find it difficult to understand and even accept. The need for predictability for our private partners is very important in order to ensure stable quality and required investments for the benefit of patients. I am therefore very pleased that there are now ongoing agreements with non-profit actors in the drug field in addition to what has already been done in the area of child protection. I'd like to go a little bit further. The principle of current contracts should certainly also be taken into account when renegotiations are to be made with rehabilitating institutions. More predictability is also needed here to ensure well-qualified actors without a commercial interest as good partners for the public sector. Many have quoted the LO leader. To bring in some variation I will then quote the head of the nurses' union, Lisbeth Normann: «We repeat to the tedious: only employees' wages and jobs and the number of people at work can save money on a commercial company.» That's very well said! Dignity in the service must also include those performing the services. Then the service is also done warmer and better, and I think both Flöthen and Normann agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3148	I want to start with what the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa said in a reply. When she said that the distance ATK was so good and that it reduced the accidents so strongly, I think it is okay to have the report from the Road Directorate that was submitted in January, which says that when it comes to reducing accidents, it is only possible to measure this after three to four years. It is interesting that the Council of State can go ahead and believe that it has that effect, while the report says something else – that you actually have to wait and see what the results are. The council also said that this government was investing and would develop a modern and efficient road network of 20 years. It's pretty easy, it's when the 17 150th mile by road has been sent to others, and they're asked to take the dishes without making sure that it's a detergent that actually makes it possible to do something about the bad road network. Then it's easy to say that you have to be able to clean up. Because the Council of State hoped one could at least have one minute's joy every day, I would like to say: I have a lot of joy sitting down on the four-field highway down to Vestfold and Tønsberg. Then I must say that frustration comes quite quickly as one has passed Tønsberg and goes down to Telemark and Agder and further up to Rogaland when one sees how bad the infrastructure is there. But we have far over one minute a day where we're very happy, and where it happens a lot. We are pleased, but I still have to say that we are moving at snail speed in relation to the major challenges facing us both on the national road network and not least on the huge county road network, which we have in Norway, which is in extremely poor condition. Norway is in a special position in Europe now. While other European countries are struggling with a serious debt crisis, on Friday there was a new report of joy that it actually looks as if one of the biggest oil finds has now been made on a total of 2.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent. If that's true, we're actually talking about Norway's third largest oil discovery over time. The market value is over 1 100 billion. kr. A lot of it will actually get into the state box. In any other country, people would of course rejoice over it. And in any other country, politicians had immediately begun to discuss what to spend all the money for. However, Norway is a different country, many of which have been involved. Here, it is simply assumed that all the money from the new oil fund should preferably be used to buy shares in foreign companies and not to invest in infrastructure and empowerment. I think we should have a thorough debate on what the joyous extra incomes are going to be used for. And as I said, what about investing in the future and building infrastructure, which people may have enjoyed for at least 100 years to come? Last week I had the pleasure of being on committee tour in Switzerland. It's a country we can learn an incredible amount from when it comes to transportation. There were some things we would rather not learn there too, but at least we can learn that they have created their own infrastructure fund of 20.8 billion. Swiss franc, approx. 135 B.C.E. NOK The Fund shall be directed towards investments in the main road network and bottlenecks in cities. The benefits of an infrastructure fund are quite obvious: infrastructure investments are taken out of the annual budgets. Such a fund would be able to solve the strange problem in Norway where we build ten times two kilometers of road. Maybe you should use more long and larger projects because you can finance it with infrastructure funds. Unemployment in Europe is incredibly sad for those involved. But unemployment also gives us the opportunity to pick up labour, as well as our own work resource. We can actually get help from all over Europe, and we can help the whole of Europe. We can give solidarity to people who don't have a job, because we need to build the infrastructure in our own country. With low European interest rates and high European unemployment, conditions are now well suited to the massive construction of new roads and railways in Norway. I've been a lot around the country, from Lindesnes in the south to Kirkenes in the north, and I can confirm that the need for new infrastructure is enormous. Indeed, for companies exporting fresh Norwegian fish to Europe, every hour of delay means a lot of money. That is why it is important to set up an infrastructure fund. The Progress Party has now put forward a proposal to set up an infrastructure fund of 500 billion. kr. I hope that we will have the support of several parties when we see what good results it has given, among other things. in Switzerland. Finally, yesterday, on my Facebook page, there was one who wrote, "Some people are running free." I will drive free of bombs. I actually think we in this country can afford to build proper infrastructure, without the use of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3169	The President notices that the representative Hoksrud has submitted a report here. It may be useful for others to read.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3172	The right will ensure the well-being, jobs and economy in times of insecurity. Therefore, we want to make use of the possibility of the census giving us to discuss what solutions will help to ensure our future well-being. The right will have security through knowledge and competitiveness. We guarantee well-being by creating more, not more taxes. This debate has not been much about the future, except that the Workers' Party has been concerned about who will take over the country's governance after them in 2013. The Labour Party has spent a lot of its time drawing scares of how a new government will be. The working party says they want to cooperate with private people. When we say the same thing, they call it privatisation. When the Workers' Party says that they are not opposed to changing the Working Environment Act if necessary, the Workers' Party calls it the brutalization of working life when the Right says the same. The Workers' Party says that tax cuts are well-being cuts, but they call it a welfare issue when the Workers' Party cuts the taxes for the members of the LO. The Labour Party says that it is wrong to cut the taxes on wealth, but now boasts that fewer people pay taxes on wealth. The right is concerned with safeguarding well-being by creating more, not taxing more. But our toolkit for sustainable well-being consists of more than that. Firstly, we must give priority to a healthy and stable economy. It's an important prerequisite for everyone to have a job to go to, also in the future. Secondly, we need to give priority to knowledge in schools, research, development and innovation. It is a prerequisite that each individual has the necessary prerequisites to get to work and to be able to stand on his own feet, which in turn make Norway competitive. Thirdly, we must bet on quality in care. It is a prerequisite for us to meet the welfare challenges in a good way. We must have good public services that guarantee individual freedom of choice and dignity. In order to ensure a sustainable welfare society, we need to find the best organisation for good and robust welfare services for our citizens. Together with improving the efficiency of the public sector, investment in infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax incentives, we provide the basis for ensuring well-being by creating more, not taxing more. It is especially in bad times a government shows what it is good for. That is why I am not impressed by the self-confidence of the Labour Party in this debate on growth in the number of jobs, at a time when growth in the rest of the world has also been good, and other countries have also created many jobs. It was just to be lacking that Norway was not able to do the same. What we know after six years of red-green policy is that competitiveness is weakened. The government has increased the burden on Norwegian companies to go out and compete. It can happen in good times. But when we see today that owners have to take out money from the company, money that could have helped secure jobs in difficult times, to pay a strange wealth tax that has doubled in the last six years, it is completely wrong. The right is convinced that we are creating more, among other things: through moderate and targeted tax incentives that ensure that it pays to work and create new jobs. We create more through knowledge, research, development and innovation. That is why in today’s debate – and tonight – the Right has said that we will ensure welfare through knowledge and competitiveness, by creating more, not more taxes. The government options are unclear. They're talking about what they've done, not what they're going to do. They're talking about the Right Policy, not their own policy. I hope to hear something about how the government will create more. I hope to hear something about how the government will provide more knowledge, more research and more innovation. In short, I hope to hear something more visionary than the new attacks on the Right and boast of what you've done, rather than what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3210	I thought I would say a few words about the status on the Norwegian base. There's a lot of positive happening. It's a combination of new, very valuable and great findings. There is a better use of existing and mapped resources. A continuous effort is being made to develop new technologies, including: in order to increase the rate of exploitation, and the government is facilitating the careful opening of new and interesting areas. In this way, it can be said that the government and the department are already well-informed about the follow-up to the big business message being treated in this room. One interesting thing to notice is that even mature parts, the areas that we thought we knew best on Norwegian base, provide exciting findings. In addition, large or very prospective discoveries are made in the Barents Sea. This promises good for the future in Norway. At all, I think it's fair to say that there's great optimism. I think that also points forward. I think we can get a situation with more attention, where more people will sign up to take advantage of the opportunities and help create the values that are now visible in Norway. In addition, Norwegian technology, Norwegian oil and gas-related business, succeeds internationally. Next to oil and gas and next to fish, this is becoming one of our biggest export industries. It's positive. Norway is not alone in having rich access to natural resources. The key to our success lies in the way we have managed this wealth. As with the water, one has managed this in a way that has benefited the community. You've used the opportunity to lift the whole community up and down. Now it is our turn to bring this legacy further into new times, because this could provide rich opportunities for the development of jobs, for business development and employment, and for technology development across the country. One of the main challenges is to attract employment and value creation north as new resources are discovered. It's of great importance to me and to the government. Although the world needs more energy, Norway needs more green energy. Norway needs to transform into a more sustainable energy system, into a more climate-friendly society – simply a greener society. This means that significant resources, significant resources, are also invested within the renewable energy cluster. The main measure is, of course, the establishment of the Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market, which will be in place from 1 January 2012. It will represent a paradigm shift in the rate of expansion of renewable energy. Over the next nine years, 26.4 TWh will be expanded. It corresponds to about one fifth of what Norway has so far spent 130 years expanding. In addition, there will be large investments in the central and underlying networks. It requires infrastructure to transport electricity from the manufacturer to the consumer; it requires infrastructure to correct imbalances between the different parts of the country. In short, we are now building the future of those who come after us. I also think it is reasonable to say that we will now go from focusing on framework conditions in green energy production to discussing the concession policy. Norway is in the midst of a boom, really in the counterphase to large parts of the Western world, to many of our important trading partners. It should be good back to wear good times. It should remind us all that soberness in fiscal policy will be important, especially in times like this. It is now time to push ourselves further, to deliver good competitiveness, to maintain competitiveness in other industries and in export industries, and to lay the foundations for continued development and growth, including in non-public industries, which are not energy-related business networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3236	Today's debate on oil money has been a part of the debate, often with reference to my party. It has also been about the welfare level now and in the future. I would like to remind you that the welfare level of the future is not primarily about how we manage the financial capital of the petroleum fund. It is primarily about how we manage human capital in the population. The majority of the jobs to ensure the well-being of the future are not yet created, and I recall – as the government tends to forget when it comes to budgetary negotiations, but as they are otherwise keen to remember – that human capital is worth more than five times as much as our financial and oil capital combined. If Norwegian welfare is to be financed by the petroleum fund in the future, it simply becomes ‘knagre’ times. I do not belong to a party that believes that the business life of the future is created by decisions in the Stortinget. However, it is certain that the maintenance of today's welfare level in the future requires action for the benefit of human capital today. Then I want to be so rude – would I say – that I read out a little pass from the State Pension Fund Act, which is to ‘support long-term considerations in the use of State petroleum revenues’. What could be more long-term than spending some more of the petroleum revenues on strengthening human capital – through the creation of new research infrastructures, through the strengthening of higher education and not least through school investment? Let me start by saying a few words about school. Both Norwegian and international school research show that the competence of teachers is the greatest contribution to the learning of students, and that increasing teacher competence is the most effective measure a country or another school owner can take to increase learning outcomes. That is why I was disappointed last autumn when the government in the budget made only funds available to 2 500 teachers in the continuing training programme. But then I'm disappointed not only with the National Assembly, but also with the municipalities, which only accommodated 1,500 teachers. At this rate it takes 40 years for all teachers in theory to be offered continuing training. And you can imagine that some of the teachers have left in the next 40 years. My hope is that this year's negotiations will lead to a stronger national commitment to increased efforts for the further training of teachers. Then I also hope that today's debate and later debates will help to increase the focus on this with how good it is with five-year teacher and further education, instead of the four-year teacher training we have today. My point is that increased investment in the skills of teachers is good investment in future welfare and value creation. State Council Borten Moe has been found by Aldous and Avaldsnes in the North Sea. Some people have said that it's a shame today. No, it's not about luck, it's about a result of human capital, technology and Norwegian competence. But the expansion also causes some problems, which I will come back to. We have also heard in recent months that the Minister of Fisheries will increase the production of farmed salmon and have increased further processing of the salmon we already produce. The Minister of Health and Health will build new hospitals. The Minister of Transport wants to build, not so much, but just as fully build new roads, bridges and railways. All these ambitions to the various governments have in common that they require technological competence. Already today, this country lacks 4 000 technologists. The Aldous-Avaldsnes extension will only require 400-700 technologists in the deployment phase. Therefore, it is my hope that we will do exactly what the State Council, Mr. Borten Moe says, facilitate future value creation, also in the oil sector and in other industries in Norway, by getting a stake in and a boost for technology training in Norway. There is a fundamental need. I'm thinking that at noon. 21 or what it is, in the evening it's allowed to be a little bit local in the debate as well. And then I want to remind the local government councils and government representatives that one of the things we need to educate more technologists is infrastructure, especially new technology building at the University of Southern Trøndelag, which I hope we get the chance to discuss when the budget is presented. I also want to say right away that during this year there will be two major expansions – one at the University of Oslo, Life Science Centre, and one at NTNU, the Ocean Space Centre, both of which can provide the basis for future growth and value creation if we are able to implement these key infrastructures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3264	The actual census held Prime Minister Stoltenberg at the National Government Meeting of the Workers' Party on 27 September. There, according to the Evening Post, he announced: ‘There will be protests against the State budget in the autumn and there will be a high demand to spend more money.’ That is why the government, and in particular the head – the prime minister of the Workers' Party – plays the «Security Card». He says, still according to the Evening Post: ‘We have to hold back the use of money for jobs, interest rates and mortgages. It is most important.’» But there is hardly any crisis in the Norwegian economy as to the quality of care for the elderly gets better. But life will be better for a very many needy elderly people. There will probably be no crisis in the Norwegian economy if Norwegian hospitals get a little better. If more people return to work more quickly, it actually strengthens their competitiveness. There will be no crisis in the Norwegian economy if the police are better able to perform basic police tasks, but there will be better security. It's actually a good economy if newly-trained policemen can get a job in the police, and if police officers who work in the police continue to work in the police. Nor will there be a crisis in the Norwegian economy if the pressure on immigration is reduced if Norway practices a stricter regime for reception, a stricter regime for clarification, a stricter regime for return and a stricter regime for possible residence in Norway. And to be honest, there will be no crisis in the Norwegian economy if the local People's Government is strengthened, if local politicians gain more power, if statesmen, state agencies and ministries gain less power, and if people in the municipalities are allowed to decide more even through the active use of binding referendums, as the Progress Party wants. Not least: there will be neither a crisis nor a disorder in the Norwegian economy if we invest more in Norway's own transport sector, especially in roads that still carry the large volume of transport in Norway. If, in order to ensure future generations, we invest more from an oil wealth that now seems to be even larger, more from an oil wealth in tangible and secure real values in our own country rather than in uncertain financial values abroad, it will continue to be order in the economy – not just order, but it will actually be strengthened competitiveness. Good roads are a good tool – important for growth capacity and for value creation in the years to come. Good transport solutions in a long and sleekly populated country on the outskirts of Europe are important – important to ensure that distance and transport needs are not an additional disadvantage for Norwegian industry and for the Norwegian economy. Much is good in Norwegian economy, but we also have weaknesses. We have a high cost level. Norway has the worst tribal roads in Europe. Measured on the road between some of the largest cities in a number of European countries, Norway now has a sovereign last place, clearly turned off by Europe’s poor cousins, Albania. Norway also has a major urban problem with road traffic queues. It costs 10 billion to Norwegian industry. kr every year. Therefore, Norway now needs an investment commitment for the road network, and there is a lifting Norway can and should do without using tolls. A large part of what is built by new roads is, unfortunately, financed by extra transport taxes. From 2005 to today, it amounts to a total of 98 billion. kr – extra tax from a government that says that the taxes have not increased. The economy is getting better with more road construction. The competitiveness is improved. There will be no crisis in the economy if we build better roads without tolls, nor will it be disorderly in the economy. Arguments about crisis and disorder are used by those who for good reason are afraid of losing power. Therefore, the «Security Card» appears as a political card.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3302	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3305	The terror that struck Norway on July 22 has become part of our close history. Every day is here for most people. For many, however, life is not like before. For those who lost a child, a colleague, one of their loved ones, or for those of us who are related to someone who was seriously injured, or for the parents of young people who are now struggling with psychological aftereffects and perhaps not yet getting out of their parents' bed, for those young people who are now leaving school – for us, terror is not history, but still characterizes a large part of our daily lives. I am a great representative and at the same time a relative of one who was seriously injured on Utøya. I have a social mandate to manage. I've been thinking a lot about what I want to use the experience and what we should use it for. Let me start with the basics: values. Positive values are only worth something because we end up with them. The values that characterize a society are formed every day. Openness, tolerance, love, solidarity is what we choose. That doesn't mean, of course, that it's not allowed to feel anger and hate. On the contrary, it is human, but the hate cannot take over. Transferred to politics: we need to become even clearer on value issues, become even more open and inclusive in our actions. Values and attitudes should become a more conversational theme at work and around the dinner table. We all have a responsibility there. Constructive criticism brings us forward. Children and young people must learn source criticism and critical thinking. Only through confrontation and arguments can extreme attitudes be combated. Only through self-criticism can public institutions improve. We need to have room for the system criticism after July 22nd, but we also need to take care of the employees who risked their lives and who did a job with the resources and equipment they had. The terrorist attack showed that there were weaknesses in coordination and overall preparedness in Norway. It's a political responsibility, including my own. At the same time, I am not convinced that the answer is always more money for the floors. We have to be smarter than that. Norway is a multicultural society. I have to say that I am disappointed, but not surprised that Siv Jensen here today, as the leader of the largest opposition party in this room, does not take the opportunity to distance himself from clear misinformation about immigration and statements to some of his colleagues. But the debate is not yet over. Siv Jensen still has a chance. The terrorist act that hit Norway on 22 July calls for political self-research. Although we are to wait for the Commission's report, it is obvious that we have made too poor demands for operational preparedness. Personally, I also believe that the defence resources must be better used in a crisis. The answer is not generally more monitoring and control. Most people in Norway are not potential terrorists, nor should they be treated afterwards. We need resources and competences in the PST so that they can do a good preventive job. My conclusion is that the most important political heritage of July 22 is to promote knowledge-rich, curious and tolerant people who jointly and independently take responsibility for shaping what Norway we are all happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3323	Many people have said – and there was a lot of focus on it at the beginning of this debate as well – that after 22 July and the upheavals that occurred then, Norway has been permanently changed and that we as individuals have been permanently changed. We're talking less bad about each other, and we're accusing each other too much less than what we did before. I must say that there have not been many bad words in the debate today, but there have been many ugly accusations, in my opinion. One of them goes on some of the things I disagree with. There is a lot we agree on, and we have a lot of good here in Norway, and one of the things that Stoltenberg focused on today is that jobs are important. Yes, I very much agree with that. Now there are few jobs adopted, they are created by creative people around the whole of Norway. Once created, the Labour Party would like them to be taxed as much as possible. There has been a lot of focus on wealth taxes today. To me, it's completely incomprehensible that the Prime Minister says we can't change it. That is, we should always give priority to foreign ownership. It's such a clear difference, and it's really incomprehensible to me. On the other hand, decisions in bureaucracy create jobs. There's another side to which we disagree, because there's been such a lot of central bank over-management in Norway that local democracy is starting to falter. There are a lot of people around Norway who say it's uninteresting to be involved in local politics because you're being overrun anyway. Clearly, for democracy it is a cross of thought when you know that it is where democracy really is created. If you don't have a local democracy, you have trouble getting a democracy on a national basis, too. The right is accused of being privatized all over the line. That's absolutely not true. That's a bad accusation. Right is very satisfied with the public school, with a lot of public jobs, but we believe that there should be an alternative that should be a correct one, and that they should be able to learn from each other and thereby profit from it. That doesn't mean we're going to privatize throughout the public sector. Another thing that bureaucracy brings with it is that it gets hard to be in the districts. It is difficult to get young people to move back to the districts when it is that it is central management of most things. If we can't do anything about it, there'll be more and more people moving from the countryside. And then there'll be even more people coming along here, and then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3336	Politics is about what kind of societies we want for the future. Then it's important that we focus on our own policies, but also on the differences between the parties, and not try to misplace them. In this way, the right is seen as the fog prince of the policy. It looks like the strategy is to sit still and not talk about the consequences of large parts of its policy and of its party program. It is understandable that the Right does not want to talk about its social tax cuts that will result in welfare cuts. It is understandable that the Right will not talk about the consequences of privatising the welfare community step by step. It is understandable that the Right will not talk about how they intend to weaken the rights of ordinary people in working life. The political debate in the future should be much more about political differences. Then all parties have to bear in mind that unpleasant questions are posed about their policies and their consequences. I feel confident that the Labour Party's policy in this way is good – a policy that turns out to create growth and new jobs, a policy for fair distribution, a policy for well-being for all. Differences in the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy are clear, but they may have become a little more difficult to see because the right-hand side has changed the rhetoric. But the right has not changed the policy. We have a common responsibility to clarify the differences for the voters. In the end, I want to focus a little on the part of the country I come from, South. We are experiencing violent growth, but at the same time we are seeing how vulnerable we are to international economic unrest as much of the industry is export oriented. Then it's important to have a government that keeps the economy in order. A lot of positive has happened to us in the South during the last decades. We are a part of the country in positive development. Unfortunately, we also have our challenges, especially in relation to living conditions. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that is up - to - date in South Africa, including the United States. ensure that there is an extra focus on how to move forward. The newly appointed Southern Committee is thus an important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3349	The debate today, and to the extent that the previous speeches, show little that there is a nuance, or at least a definition of the debate, dealing with the right side to the left – social versus social. I want to comment on some of those points, because I would say that the picture is not as black-and-white as mentioned. So you could say that some of us are concerned about the third way and the center as an alternative, and that there are just a lot of the good solutions there. In such a debate as we have today – the debate on the throne – it is the visions that are being promised. I have to say that much of what has come out from both sides has been good. The visions for Norway, and not least the theme ‘work for all’, have been the review theme of most members of the government parties. And all credit for that, because here you need a lift. Here, perhaps, too, is my main objection to being so social, all the policies being pursued. A key is that ‘poverty’ was not mentioned in the census. Poverty is one of our greatest challenges in a society that goes so well. There are over 70,000 poor children, and there are even more. The fact that you grow up in a country that goes so well, and that as a child you have to feel poor, is one of the toughest things you can be exposed to. One of the most important ways out of poverty is work. Today, we are lucky and have a well-functioning business life, with a good functioning labour market and with Europe's lowest unemployment rate. There are 65 000 unemployed in Norway. At the same time, 220,000 people are in the «decreased» category who are on redundancy pay. And there's a group that I think the Storting and the government must be much more concerned about, because in this group there's a large proportion of people who are going to end up in social security because the welfare community doesn't work well enough. Nav has to work. Today we only have labour market measures, places that can help these people get back into work, to approx. 50 000 to 60 000 out of 220 000. The definition of ‘decreased working capacity’ – or that you get a job redundancy, a job performance assessment of Nav – is precisely that you need help to get back to work, and we do not give them that help. In the summer, the management of Nav itself was out there warning that if there were no increase in the 2012 budget, even more people would end up in social security. When we discuss whether society is going in a social or unsocial direction, we have to look at how things are going today. I believe that what is presented as very social, is not, because we do not help the people who can come back to work, precisely because we do not give them the necessary action places.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3360	There is a lot that has happened this last year, which has made it clear how fundamental it is that the police act works well. On the one hand, everything from the most extreme acts of terrorism, electoral waves, grossly-elected and unimaginable abuses against children and women to mobile profit crime, on the other hand, which makes people unsafe where they should be safest, simply in their own home. And we have financial crime that weakens the foundation of the welfare state. There is a great deal of tension in the work that the police have to do. And they're going to do a good job across the country. The police can't be anywhere at any time, but if they're well-managed and well-organized at all stages, they can be more often. The aim must be to enable the police to prevent, detect and detect crime in order to make the whole community safer. Many months before the terrorist acts in July of this year, the government announced a major announcement of a performance reform in the police in the spring of 2012. We need to find ways to get the best possible results for the resources available at any time in the police action. This is a work and a debate that we in the Center Party will take an active part in. A good preparedness in the central strata must not be set up against the needs of the districts, in my opinion, because everything is linked to everything. We have to look at what can and should change, and what works well already. We know that there is a screaming need for the police to invest in ICT, and we will follow suit. When it comes to the structure, I'll warn you against believing that setting up a lot of loner offices will make the police better equipped for the future. At the same time, we are not going to maintain offices for each price. The offer of the inhabitants is important, and some places can be a few more if one changes the structure. Good local processes are what have to be attributed to any changes, not blind belief in centralisation, which, unfortunately, in many cases at different levels prove to be expensive and make the quality of services worse. In time after terrorist attacks in July this year, the debate has gone on about the need for more monitoring and control. It is not surprising that many call for strict measures, but it is uplifting that so many Norwegians actually say that they do not want to do so. A free society is hardly free of human beings who live there, not free. Without privacy, we are not. It is difficult to make decisions in the fight against terrorism and against serious crime, but I believe, in general, that Norwegian society has been – and is – on the right track. That being said, the hour of thought has come after so many lost their lives in the government quarter and on the Utøya. Did everything work well enough? Could more have been done, if so what? This is going through a thorough review, and the debate is already in full swing. We're going to learn from what went well, and what went wrong, and make the necessary changes as soon as possible. But in the middle of this, we must not forget that a hateful human being with the will and will to take many lives can get to this about whatever kind of action we had to take. It says itself, but it's worth it, my dear. The size should work on the well-known performance reform in 2012. It's a work that we all have to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3381	Voluntary efforts are also value creation. It's primarily about close human values. The statistical central agency has calculated what the value creation of the non-profit and voluntary organisations stands for, in dollars and cents. In 2008, it was 92 billion. kr. It equals the value of 21 Bjørvika operations per year. Community and voluntary action cannot be adopted by politicians. It must be created by the people and civil society. But politicians can provide a good framework so that voluntary work is possible. Voluntary initiatives and non-profit institutions must have sound support schemes and secure framework conditions. Our welfare community is built on traditions of virtue and participation. Much of the well-being that is now being funded jointly, such as care and help for the poor, was previously driven exclusively by voluntary fires. Today, voluntary sector and private ideal offers are an important complement to the public welfare offer. That is why our government has extended the system of VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations. We're going to escalate the appropriations by 1 billion. kr by 2014. We also prioritise non-profit institutions when announcing child protection missions. We do the same in drug care, and we want to work to ensure more predictable framework conditions in general. The private ideal offers are important. They are located between the welfare Member State providing welfare and the market capable of delivering goods and services. In the gap between public and market governance, there is a lot of creativity and good growth for social entrepreneurship. There are sprouts, ideas and innovations that our society will need even more at a time when the welfare society is under pressure because of demographic change, while technological progress gives skyrocketing expectations of what is to be delivered. There are two major threats to volunteering and the private ideal actors. If the responsibility becomes too heavy, the burden on the individual may also become too heavy. Then you give up. The second threat is to be overcome by market mechanisms that provide benefits to commercial and profit-driven operators. We will prevent that. Therefore, we will not blindly let go of profit-driven actors as welfare providers. Therefore, we will give priority to the private ideal actors. They're driven by commitment, not by the desire for profit. They compete for quality, not price. They bring innovation, not market thinking, into the welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3396	As a mother, I am concerned that everyone should be able to travel safely in traffic, and that there is no need to worry about what can happen on Norwegian roads. Many parents live daily in fear of what can happen to their children on the school road. Some places can be so dangerous that sending children to school can feel like terror. E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal is such a deadly, narrow road without pitfalls, where accidents often occur, including fatal front collisions. At the top of it all, schoolchildren have to cross the trafficked E18 to get to school. It is tragic when you know that it is fully possible to build roads with zero meeting accidents, for example. with pitfalls for soft road users. In Sweden, they had a long way to go on such a route as Tvedestrand–Arendal, but in the oil country Norway, road safety is not a priority for large and small. Now, the Prime Minister boasted earlier today that there was a lot to boast about in the future budget, so it's allowed to hope for a recovery. Of course, I am glad that at least the planning of the new E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal has started, but I fear that it will take many years before the road is in place. It is unsustainable if you have to wait until 2019 before we get a safe path, because here you should have been doing well many years ago. The same applies to other dangerous routes on the European road network, such as: E6 in Gudbrandsdalen. Safety on the road is also about safe cars. New cars sold today have a completely different safety profile than old cars. Old cars can be in such a bad condition that they are directly dangerous to traffic. Unfortunately, many Norwegian families with children cannot afford to buy safe cars for themselves and their own. The progress party will lower the car charges, but will be met with a cold shoulder each time we take this up. The government has announced the conversion of car charges in the state budget for 2012, but unfortunately I have little faith that safer cars will be cheaper than before. Torp airport outside Sandfjord has been a huge success, and many in my own state choose to fly from there instead of from Kjevik. One of the reasons Sandefjord Airport Torp has succeeded is that the airport is not owned by the state and that they have found their own low price. I think it's a market for more such airports in Norway. In East Agder we have the plans ready for Arendal Airport Gullknob. The runway is already in place with safety zones and good expansion possibilities on its own land. An extended regulatory plan was also adopted by the municipality of Fromand last Thursday, and in 2012 we are well in the process. Sole Proprietors in the South have faith in the Gold Button, and they bet their money there. This will be a useful — privately operated — aerodrome for the South. We do not ask for state money to Arendal Airport Goldknob, but we hope that the government will be able to contribute gradually to the highway connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3413	The Labour Party will defend a safe and sound financial management of the country, even if a person gets criticism not to bet more on all good purposes. For us in the Labour Party, work for everyone is absolutely fundamental, and we do not risk the workplaces of populist budgeting or promises of 100 billion. kr in tax cuts. For it is not right, as the representative Siv Jensen said before today, that we are a few on a responsible economic policy. The Labour Party knows that if we don't exercise our policy in a responsible way, it will go against those who have the least in society. There is no working party policy. The Labour Party is a family party. As the representative Syversen of the Christian People's Party said before today, families are important in a welfare society. We want a good babysitting, we want a good babysitting for everyone, we want a good common ground that ensures all equal opportunities, but where one can be different, and we want a good and inclusive working life. It's important for the welfare community, and it's important for families. A society that is good for kids to grow up in is good to live in for everyone. The Labour Party has in government contributed to a strengthening of child protection, but we are not in target. We believe that child protection is essentially a public task, where non-profits are going to play a greater role in the future. We have a lot to be proud of, but we also have challenges that we have to take on behalf of the kids. I want to be one of the people who is elected also for those who do not have the right to vote – the smallest. We have to think big about the little ones. Today's debate has undoubtedly revealed that work for all is the main issue of the Labour Party. It is also important family policy. For work, it's not just about individuals or tax revenues, it's about a safe and good family economy and a good family life. Having a job gives people the opportunity to buy a dwelling. It gives parents the right to parental leave. It provides them with the ability to combine work and care. An important requirement for both parents, or single parents, to be at work is today child care facilities and good leave arrangements, which the government has strongly invested in. The parental quota and a more equal parental leave are important for families and for women in work, and is something I'm very proud of. I've talked a lot about the Workers' Party's policy in this article. I thought that a lot of workers' party representatives have done that today, despite the fact that the representatives from the Right seem to be indignant that we haven't. Nevertheless, I notice that the representative of Hofstad Helleland is probably calling the Labour Party more often in his posts than I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3428	The Soria Moria Declaration stresses that the main task of the government is to prevent. If events and crises occur, the aim is to deal quickly and efficiently with them through the use of national resources. Good preparedness creates security. Then the question becomes whether we will plan to implement measures that give us 100 percent protection against any conceivable and unimaginable disaster or terrorist action. In that case, it will provide us with a monitoring society that will result in great restrictions on the individual's freedom and rights. With experience from other countries, the estimate of the government quarter might have been a risk assessment scenario, but the raid on the AUFs on Utøya was not a sensible one to predict. There was an unparalleled act of terror. One lesson must be taken with us in future preparedness planning: it is that the evil of terrorists is endless. These are the challenges that Norwegian municipalities, national authorities and businesses will face in their future preparedness work. In other words, if we're going to have the opportunity to prevent that kind of terrorist attack, we have to think and plan for the unmistakable. We're good at getting ready in Norway, but we can get better. An important element of our rescue work is the efforts of volunteers, often in cooperation with municipal and state response groups. And so it was on July 22nd and in the days that followed. The Norwegian volunteer is a glue in any community. Voluntary participation increases the preparedness of both society and individual citizens. Taking care of volunteering is making society safer and the community wider. Voluntary organisations, through their commitment, play an important role in our Norwegian welfare model. Politically, we have a responsibility to facilitate voluntary actors to play their roles as equivalent rescue resources when serious incidents hit the country. Also in a large majority of municipalities in the country, volunteering is essential for people's security. About two thirds of the country's municipalities have part-time fire brigade staffed with volunteers. These are there when we need them, not only when it burns, but also when major accidents occur. So is the Civil Defense. In everyday life, we do not see them, but they are also there when we need them. They are an important part of the security network, they are our security and the state's main response force when crises occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3439	In the Common Era, it was said that the government should work for good well-being. I ask the question: is there going to be good welfare across the country, or is it just the most popular part of the country to have good welfare and health? During the six years we have now had a red-green regime in this country, they have traveled around the country and the beach and told us that no local hospital functions should be reduced. This applies to both red-green policymakers and government members, up to the Prime Minister. So what do we see happening around the country? Yes, health professionals, both regional and local, continue to remove functions from well-functioning local hospitals, without intervention by health authorities and stopping the degradation and depopulation of many local hospitals. I draw the conclusion that the double communication we have seen in this election campaign when it comes to the functions of local hospitals is only made to attract voters. We have registered that red-green individual representatives have made strong promises to clean up the local hospital in Nordfjordeid. In this context, I would like to refer to the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Lundteigen and Toppe for their announcements as local guides in Nordfjord and at several election meetings in the same district. We are now recording that the promises mentioned have no value, because the healthcare company operates in the same way as it has done in the past, and removes important functions and pursues the follow-up to the additions, which also fight to ensure that the local hospital is composed in the form determined by the national health plan. I refer to the Progress Party's proposal to stop the degradation of the local hospitals to which we are witnessing, and I expect the major politicians who traveled the country and the beach and made strong promises to maintain full local hospitals to support our proposal, so that we can stop the decline. If not, I'll put a big question mark on the morals of these representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3452	Yesterday I had a visit by two young ladies as guests to the opening of the Stortinget. They were excited and happy. After the ceremony, they were glowing and happy to have attended such a big and important event. Both of them were very satisfied with the number of thrones and the plans the government has for 2012. So one of them said, «Does the king listen to what he would have said if Frp sat in government? Perhaps something like the government has removed taxes and taxes on alcohol — and the number of alcohol-related accidents, injuries and health problems in people most rise in the weather. Or, the government has lifted the speed limits of our motorways – which has led to a dramatic increase in traffic accidents.» This was of course caricature statements from this young lady, but it still says that if the Advance Party comes into government, society will change. For example, we know that a more liberal alcohol policy will pose major problems both for individuals and for society. I am concerned about the development and consequences of increased alcohol consumption and the use of drugs. I am therefore pleased that the government will present its own report on drug policy. It is not possible to undermine the fact that both prevention and treatment and rehabilitation services can be improved. I am particularly concerned about the response chain from motivation to detoxification and further to treatment and rehabilitation. Today, more people feel that this treatment chain is too fragmented. And it's heartwarming to hear about people who either crack and start rushing again, or in the worst case, overdoses die because they have to wait too long until they get the next offer in the chain of measures. Although a good deal of action has been taken by the government in the field of drug care, many do not think it is enough. Drug users as well as relatives, health professionals and organisations tell about sad and evil people because of drug abuse and a treatment offer that does not extend to them. We have to do something about this. The Stoltenberg Committee presented its report on drugs in 2010. The sample points to many important areas that need to be improved and renewed, which will be the subject of considerable attention in the notified notification. I look forward to the announcement being addressed to the Stortinget, and I both hope, believe and expect that this important political work will lead to a more conscious drug policy and a better treatment provision for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3470	Our way of creating and sharing and living has created the society we have today, with high employment, good welfare arrangements and good redistribution. I think this is one of the reasons why we got through the disaster on July 22nd and the days after in a good way. But it's not natural for it to continue like that. It's a result of community building, of political choices. There are dramatic times in the European economy. The financial crisis and its management led to an even greater deficit and additional problems for many of the European countries that had already experienced a large budget deficit. Many countries have become very vulnerable. Many countries will have little to tell if the world economy is facing even greater problems. Then we can face new crises and new riots. It's all because of political elections. In Norway, it is easy to think that this cannot happen to us, that we will not be affected. That's not true. The Norwegian economy is strong, yet open and vulnerable to economic fluctuations. Thus, a manageable EU and a well-functioning internal market also mean a great deal to Norwegian jobs and our well-being. We depend on Europe to succeed, because the countries of Europe are our main trading partners. In fact, the Norwegian authorities cannot protect industry and business against what is happening internationally. That is why Europe's response to the challenges of the financial crisis directly affects us. That is why long-term solutions need to be found that ensure a sustainable economy internationally. High participation in the labour market and low sick leave provide us with income to make school even better and to make a worthwhile care provision for the elderly. There are no other instruments in the policy that are stronger than this: keeping people in work. Then we get tax revenue, and then we keep the social security costs down. That's how we can afford to carry out the things we're concerned with, from spending time at school and the elderly to care and child protection, roads and culture. When we succeed with the most important thing, we also succeed with the rest. When we get people to work, we succeed in other goals like equality, integration and social cohesion. When we get the seniors to want to work longer, we get a sustainable pension scheme. And when values are created, we get income into the community through taxes. All of this happens because we put in all our strength and strength to keep people at work. Everything is political choice that brings consequences. Low unemployment is important for the economy, but it is also important for individuals. Our goal is that as many as possible will experience waking up in the morning and rejoicing to go to work, to earn their own money, to be part of a social community and to contribute to the creation of value in our country. The continuation of the construction work through the strengthening of the community in the Norwegian model has proved to be a good prevention against insecurity and unrest. It is a deliberate political choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3484	Business policy will not be forward-looking if one does not create competent jobs. If we are to meet the challenges in the future, high knowledge-based value creation is the best means of both preserving and strengthening our welfare society. The maritime cluster is a good example of how important it is to see the link between general framework conditions, skills development and good cooperation between suppliers and customers. This cluster is just one example of how important qualified labour is. When I have traveled around in the election campaign and talked to company managers and employees in companies, the need for competence and skilled labour is something that is drawn out by the vast majority of people. This is one of the really big challenges. Norway lacks skilled labour. This applies whether the enterprises are large or small. In Norway, nine out of ten enterprises have fewer than 20 employees, according to figures from the Statistical Centre. Lack of skilled labour is the main obstacle to further growth in small enterprises too — not only large enterprises lacking labour. In the 2011 NHO Small Business Survey, among other things: that each third enterprise experiences labour shortages as the main obstacle to further growth. The same survey shows that six out of ten enterprises consider training to be a very important framework condition. Only reduced taxes and reduced form fields are higher on the company priority list. To meet the needs of industry for skills depends on an education system that meets the needs of the labour market for skilled labour. I can use the vocational schools as an example of an important link between the needs of the labour market for skills and the responses of society to this need. That's why colleges are so important. Vocational schools are different and different funding models are required. Some specialised schools require more expensive equipment than others. Example of this is within the maritime training. This requires both more and more expensive equipment to provide good training in mechanical, nautical and marine engineering than is the case in other professional fields. We need to invest much more in and further develop the vocational schools, which are an important offer for young people who choose practical subjects. This is a win-win thing. Young people are trained in what they are interested in and the labour market is given the skills that the labour market needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3503	For too long, too little money was spent on transportation. In 2005, the trend was reversed. No government has invested more in transport than the red-green, and Norway now grants more money than any other country in the Nordic region. Good transport opportunities are important for the whole of Norway. Upgrading infrastructure makes everyday life easier for people, it improves the environment, society becomes more inclusive, and it strengthens the competitiveness of business. There is a lot of construction activity on Norwegian roads at the moment. In the last big session, green light was given to start 15 major national road projects. In addition, many major road projects are under way. Between 2006 and 2010, 46 major road projects were opened and the growth of the maintenance lag has been halted following a sharp increase in the maintenance budget. Despite a modest population, Norway has a widespread settlement. Mountain, fjords and valleys place considerable demands on investment and maintenance in the transport sector. In comparison, Sweden has a population of twice as large, which in return is much more concentrated in those parts of the country where nature provides room for relatively low development costs. It is therefore wrong to compare Norwegian and Swedish road standards. Our scale is Norway, and our government has ambitions to pursue an ambitious district policy, including in the field of transport. In the case of railway, there is also a lot going on. Two recent examples are the maintenance of Oslo S and the opening of the new double track from Lysaker to Sandvika. The focus is on road safety, which has produced results. The number of fatalities and injuries in traffic goes down. We have to go all the way back to 1954 to find corresponding low numbers, despite a multiple in traffic. In maritime transport, a new agreement has now been concluded with Hurtigruten, and in aviation, Terminal 2 is now being built on the Gardermoen. We focus on the environment and climate, and public transport is a field of activity. These are just a few pieces of taste in the field of transportation, so those who claim that it is not put on transportation in this country can't possibly follow in the hour, cf. The party of progress. But we have some challenges in terms of cost development and the planning tool in particular on the way. We must have a strong searchlight on this. We need to have shorter planning times, sustainable calculations and better cost control. We have behind us a period when the functional contracts somehow increased by over 100 pst. and gave less maintenance. So it must be allowed to ask whether the competitive outsourcing of operations and maintenance is the best way to organise this work, and whether it gives us better cost control. Let me say to Sortevik, who says that road construction is a safer investment than shares and bonds: this is wrong, and another good example of why we should be happy that the Progress Party does not control Norway. So to Hoksrud, which is a little stated that Norway is ‘other country’. When we look at what's happening in large parts of the world, we're going to be happy that we're exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3526	The smile of excellence lies thick over some red-green representatives, and it is faith in its own excellence. A lot is good in Norway, and it's allowed to hit the chest for it, but at the same time it's a paradox that Norwegian competitiveness is falling. It's in the good times that we've been through, you should lay the foundation for the worse we know is coming. In addition, it is paradoxical when prominent red-green representatives almost hope that the European Union and the monetary union will go badly. There's good reason to remind you that over 80 pst. Norwegian exports are just going to the EU. Now that the European Union is experiencing financial difficulties, we will also experience financial difficulties. We will have weaker growth due to poorer European growth. We will experience lower demand than we would otherwise have, because growth in Europe is worse, and therefore also the demand for our goods. But it's after the crisis we can really measure the government's policy. When we see that Norwegian competitiveness has fallen every year since 2005, there is good reason to ask ourselves: what does it mean for Norwegian jobs? Most likely a lot. We are going to experience that the Norwegian competitive industry is going to find it even more difficult to export its goods, because the Norwegian wage growth has been higher than elsewhere in Europe, because the efficiency growth in Norway is not in line with the wage growth, because we are experiencing a Norwegian krone price that is again becoming unmanageable, and because the Norwegian tax level is higher than in many other countries we compare with. We have the opportunity to do something fundamentally with Norwegian competitiveness and competitiveness through the policy we are now involved in. But then it is primarily the use of knowledge, research, development and innovation that will provide the basis for whether we are going to be a competitive nation in the future as well. It is about having the best minds, and thus also the best solutions to tomorrow's problems. But at the same time, we have to look into the fact that without an infrastructure that enables us to get goods to the market quickly and efficiently, Norwegian companies do with the same competitive disadvantage that they have today. It is also about using the possibilities offered by the tax system to contribute to growth-promoting tax relief. And that's where the Prime Minister is fundamentally wrong when he says that tax relief is irresponsible. No, we need security through knowledge and through increased competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3541	Sometimes we talk about the culture of society, and what attitudes we all have. I think July 22 showed us as a nation that we have at least two strong moves, and that's that we're broken, and we're solidarity. In a number of countries, failure and self-interested solidarity are not as strong as the value of society and as a guide to practical policies as they do in Norway. In these countries, the fundamental elements for everyone to have a reasonably good opportunity in life and a solid platform for exercising their freedom, namely kindergartens, schools, hospitals, care for the elderly and a safety net when one loses work or becomes ill, are privileges reserved to the few. The shaky solidarity that materialized on 22 July is good qualities when we face a new financial turmoil. We see that many countries are in a great mess. They have high unemployment rates, high fixed costs for the Treasury and high debts. And when they're going to use Keynes as a textbook and a guide, and cash into the economy to get the wheels going, they have no money to spend. Money is not saved, and tax cuts are given. So the financial crisis shows how cheap we are development internationally, but it's also a guide to how much we can do ourselves by keeping order in our own house, and by engaging in our values internationally. When Jens Stoltenberg now announces a tight budget, it should be listened to and it should be supported. No one should imagine that we are not facing enormous challenges in the future as a result of developments in the international economy. Not least, we need to be in the forefront to ensure that the Norwegian export industry outside the oil sector maintains its competitiveness. We have shown that a society with a high level of well-being and taxation is viable, even in times of economic turmoil. In fact, the level of taxation and our public goods makes us equipped to meet what we now see in the international economy. We are looking for improvements on a totally wrong basis if we do not see that Norwegian social democracy has been very successful in dealing with the current crisis in the world, and is incredibly well equipped to do the same in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3559	Many words have been used in the last two months about the cruel and inexplicable events in Oslo and Utja on July 22nd – a targeted attack that still hit randomly, a designated target, but which still affected and referred to us all. A lot has also been said about the good relationship that was shown in time after July 22. One of my strongest moments was at the funeral of Bano Rashid on the Nesodden, a Christian ceremony in the Nesodden Church with a Muslim ceremony at the graveyard outside. When we followed Bano to the grave, the priest and imam went out of the church, side by side. Norway won't be the same after July 22nd, we say. Let's really hope and believe that the relationship we've seen in the last few months is a lasting change in how we treat each other as citizens of Norway and act against each other. Today's debate on 22 July has almost exclusively concerned preparedness and handling. That debate is absolutely essential for us to take. I am proud to be part of a party with a Prime Minister and a Minister of Justice who stands up in the way they do and who also takes responsibility. The debate on preparedness must be taken, but there are also other debates that we need to debate in the wake of 22 July. Prevention is important, and prevention is not only about more resources for the police and for the PST, but also about the political attitudes expressed in public vocabulary. We have the same challenges now as before July 22nd, says Siv Jensen. I have the same points of appeal against the Advance Party now that I had before July 22. The party of progress is a party which has deliberately played on foreign fear and which builds up a picture of ‘we’ and ‘them’ — a rhetoric that creates distance rather than connecting. The debate after 22 July must also deal with what attitudes we want to shape Norwegian society, and with tolerance, cohesion and more democracy becoming more than words right after the horrific events.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3574	This debate is the first one in Stortinget after 22 July. The Prime Minister and the government, the state apparatus and the political leaders have been well-deserved of thanks. ‘Agencycrat’ should hereinafter be an honorary designation. Thank you! But not least I want to thank the youth. My 2 1⁄2-year-old granddaughter says, "Come on! When he wants me to come on the floor and play. Coming was the unique answer from the youth. Come on, face up to terror with dialogue, conversation, democracy and openness. Come on! We are so far alone in the goal of the government parties on the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The Workers' Party's instruments are about everyday life for people: fair taxation, regulatory simplification, interaction, pension and disability reform are sustainable instruments for Norway to meet in the future. Arild Theimann from Sandefjord Arbeiderparti said: For public enterprises, the services are the target and the money is the instrument. For private enterprises, the money is the target and the services it provides. I want the money to go to services, not to share dividends for private owners. This is the Norwegian model. The citizens' quaking against a possible bourgeois government is accompanied by interest. First, on questions, the Supreme Prime Minister’s candidate commented on the financial crisis. The right is approaching the Progress Party. We see it in the gift debate: more police are now also right-wing answers to complex and complex problems. The rhetoric about tax policy is no to property taxes — point — without reasoning about consequences or impacts. Right argues that the rich will work more if they get richer, as opposed to ordinary people, who want to work more, get up sooner if they get less. After six years in opposition, the property tax they were to take was the position of – after six years! The annual tax impact in the budgets of the Progress Party and the Right for 2011 has been calculated to give them revenues of less than DKK 400000 up to NOK 2000 in tax cuts. 600 is bills of wealth tax. The ones with over 3 million. kr in income is paid up to NOK 113 000, almost NOK 59 000 is taxes on wealth. FINN.no had on 15 June for sale a Honda Jazz 2006 model for NOK 113 000. Those with income above 3 million. NOK can buy the car after one year. Those with revenues less than 400000 kroner have to save for 56,5 years before they can buy the same car. One day with reports of Greece’s possible bankruptcy, stock exchange fall, oil price falls and major social unrest in Europe, we are tempted by policies that enable us to buy a used car after 56,5 years. I am looking forward to a campaign for a new red-green government in 2013!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3595	The President will note – so late in the evening – that it may be a poor campaign car...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3598	An oil smurf Norway and a large political consensus on sensible use of money regardless of government in recent years are the reasons why Norway, as a nation, is not as hard hit by the economic crisis as Europe and the rest of the world are struggling with. Nevertheless, we are very vulnerable, especially export-oriented businesses and the tourism industry. It has already become much tougher for Norwegian business, with a high cost and strong crown, and we now experience that business is adjusting its expectations. We also see that travel businesses in the districts are particularly affected. Last night, in the Sunnmørsposten, you could read that the district hotels are trapped in a vicious circle, that they are the losers in the fight for the guests all year round. A demanding economic situation in the world and a record Norwegian currency have contributed to a weakening of Norwegian exports. It has become more expensive for foreign tourists to come here. And it's gotten even cheaper for the North to leave abroad. In the Common Era, the government says that it will pursue an active enterprise policy across the country, and they reiterate the promise to develop new strategies for the tourism industry. When Norwegian travel lives are to continue the development of Norwegian travel life products in order for Norwegian operators to assert themselves in an increasingly tougher international competition, the hotel industry will be a very important player. I am not talking about city and airport hotels, which are often run by large international chains. No, I aim especially at generation-driven district hotels – historic gems that are often protected or protected and located in the heart of our many scenic fjords along the coast. The Special Property Tax and Inheritance Tax are today the biggest enemies of these companies in terms of investment for innovation and further development to meet current market challenges, both nationally and internationally. Today, LO leader Roar Flöthen again called for the removal of the strange wealth tax on working capital. I do not expect anything from SV, but I hope and ask that the Workers' Party and the Centre take responsibility, that they see the value of facilitating the devastating tax burden imposed on Norwegian-owned companies, including the historical generation companies in our travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3617	The census confirms what we know: Norway is a good country to live in. The prospects and opportunities ahead are good if we manage them wisely. And that's what we and this government have done now. The idea of a strong community and solidarity has stood up well at a time of increasing globalisation, economically difficult times around us, not least when our democracy was most cruelly affected by terror in the government quarter and on the island of Utøla on 22 July. The right-hand side and parts of the centre remain after the sale, outsourcing and privatisation of public services. This debate came seriously on the agenda and intensified under the Adecco scandal and when it became known that the NHO Service sent candidates to the right-hand side on a sales and outsourcing course. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure good public services, a good offer to users and a good and serious job for employees. The Adecco case illustrated a point The Workers' Party and our partners have long pointed out, namely that in the care services the only option is to cut the employee's terms. That's where the potential for profit is compared to the public sector. Extensive privatisation of public services will lead to pressure on the working conditions of employees and a lower daily rate for them. Another case under the same heading is the sale of municipal power plants, which have been involved in the right-hand side in several municipalities. I'm excited about what's now happening in the right-hand-dominated municipalities with a bourgeois majority. I expect them to fulfill their election promises. Then I also think you'll see another working day. A well-functioning maritime and land transport system is important for increasing value creation and quality of life and for putting the whole country into use. Following up on the NTP, the government and we will work red-green at Stortinget to achieve the objectives of a safe and environmentally friendly transport system that is accessible to all. The government will conduct an active enterprise policy across the country and bet on areas where we have special prerequisites to create these values. No government has put more emphasis on commerce than the red-green one. This applies in general in the country. The red-green government knows that good infrastructure is essential for people to live and work across the country. I'll do an example. The fast route is important in this infrastructure. That is why I am very pleased that this government has put in place an agreement that ensures daily departures throughout the year from 34 ports. Investments in the road and track have suffered for many years from a lack of maintenance and underfinancing. In 2005, the red-green government reversed the trend. Since 2005, the appropriations for road and rail have increased by 51 pst. Norway allocates the most money to all Nordic countries, regardless of the size of the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3638	It has been difficult to find any red thread or an overall message from the right parties so far in this debate. It's too early to sum up, of course, but it would surprise me if it turns out that the bourgeois parties are getting closer together as the night falls on. It doesn't bother me very much. I will not stand here and claim any kind of concern about how things stand with the bourgeois bloc of Norwegian politics. But for the electors, it actually begins to be in place that there will be a clarification not only on what kind of alternative government constellation the bourgeois side will go to, but also on what kind of alternative project they will be chosen for. The closest thing to this debate is a common civil concern about Norwegian competitiveness and conditions for Norwegian enterprises. It's good things to be concerned about, but the descriptions from the right are almost absurd when we see Norway from the outside in a European context. It is almost so that one can suspect them not to understand the seriousness of the crisis that is surrounding us, and the reasons why it has arisen. A few weeks ago, the best seller ‘The Spirit Level’ came out in Norwegian under the name ‘Price of inequality’. It is a book that shows in a very striking way how those countries that have the least differences are also the countries that have the best economic performance. After reaching a certain level of development, statistics clearly show that it is not the growth rate itself that is most important, but how growth is distributed. The right-hand side has met that book and that debate, not with an ideological debate on the model of society, but with a technical debate on the statistical method. That book is by no means a Bible. And I'm going to be the first one to admit that the economic context can sometimes be more complicated than what the authors give the impression of. But the main findings cannot be denied. It's just looking around the world. Who's doing well? Who hasn't? The countries that are able to provide social security for their citizens and where the inequalities are small are also the countries where the population is productive, where the confidence is highest and the economy in the strongest growth. It's a very intuitive context. And then you can always discuss how to make the best possible use of taxes. A lot has been about property taxes here today. The changes that have already been made in the taxes on wealth, I think, are of no avail. But the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party are not about working capital. They will simply remove the entire wealth tax, without any other interference. It's a proposal that will reduce the income of the city that I represent, Oslo, by almost 2 billion. kr. Thus, the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises needs to be improved by increasing income disparities and cutting welfare. Therefore, it is reasonable that we are now gradually getting a response from the civil society on what kind of alternative projects they plan to go to the elections on. The old term ‘Look to Norway’ has gained new relevance through the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3660	Very many of the speakers of the Labour Party have used Greece as an input into their description of economic policy. It is understandable, in the sense that Greece illustrates how it can work if you drive as they have. But especially longer, this example does not extend, except as such an illustration. Using it as a starting point to describe Norway’s starting point, and what should be good economic policy for Norway, will soon be wrong. During this day and this debate we have heard a lot of fine objectives described by the representatives of the Labour Party. The objectives are in and of themselves easy to join. What has been less of this is how to achieve these objectives – the new policy to be pursued in the future in a changing world, in order to ensure well-being and employment in the future. The right recipe for this is to strengthen the value creation that lies at the bottom of society. It is based on the initiative and growth capacity of private actors. We want a greater share of the capital to remain in the companies, that we get a more accurate investment in that way. We want to strengthen research and innovation, and we want an efficient public sector that provides good jobs and that provides an effective use of the means to get what is really a warm society. The Labour Party has had full employment as an important review in this debate. I do not have a problematisation on the issue of proper recruitment, because it is the case that, in the private sector, if employment is weakened, it is not known that unemployment is possible to enter the public sector. So there's no communication between it. We can quickly get into a situation where we have unemployment in certain areas and lack of labour on others. It hasn't been many years since we had it as a very topical problem. This is an important issue in the future, both in terms of pressures in the economy and in order to solve key tasks. I miss in the debate a problematisation about this and an instruction on a policy that will show in the future when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3669	The previous speaker asked important questions. That's why it means who's in charge of school and education policy. This government has a lot to be proud of, because while many in the opposition have been most concerned about putting an end to fruity brain food, the government has delivered in a number of areas. We've stopped a massive privatisation of the school. The PISA tests show that the decline in professional outcomes has turned to recovery. The great discordant level of conflict in the school debate is history. Not least we have delivered full child care coverage, which means that more people get the best starting point for success in school. The government also has a strong response to high school dropout through the New GIV and through a new high school report. There are, among other things, sorrows. in order to raise the weakest of the 10th stage, so that they are better equipped for higher education. We're going to do more professional work. English exams should no longer be centralized, which means that each state in each subject can find the best way to train students. We will assess whether some of the professions have become too broad and too taste-bit-oriented. Now, together with the parties, we're also going to get into a social contract to ensure that those who want to do so can complete their education by hand. Experience from participation in international professional competitions also shows that Norwegian skilled workers are at a very high level. Further efforts on competitions such as World Skills and Occupations-NM will provide more motivation to increase quality and professional joy. The society where only those who choose an academic starting point get to the top is about to disappear. The labour market is already asking for workers with a practical background and theoretical knowledge. The working life of the future is not static. Our willingness to cooperate with the parties is important in order to facilitate this development. We need to discuss how we can break down the distinctions between our different education systems and between education and other knowledge and skills. The European Qualifications Framework signals that this is the future. It must also be reflected in our own national qualifications framework. Today, a large part of the building of competences and training takes place in Norwegian workplaces. That's why we also need a system to categorize and quantify this, so that we can equate this knowledge with other knowledge, like knowledge from higher education institutions. In addition, we need a proper system of continuing training. If we succeed in this, we succeed in creating a strong foundation for Norwegian working life, so that we can continue to be one of the most productive countries in the world, and so that in the future we will also be able to have one of the most competent and resilient working classes in the world with the most resilient workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3690	There was no record high selection listing this year. The emergence of community participation through voluntary teams and organisations, sport and public debate in the media is greater in Norway than the election process. It shows that the Norwegian people care about each other and want to develop a society that is good to be in for the most around them. Unfortunately, the choice channel does not appear to be an adequate tool to achieve it. Because people don't forget to vote. There are some people who are not going to the polling room, who are not free or who do not know that they have the right to vote, with the very few. What is highlighted as the main reason for joining the sofa party is that you feel that your voice is not counting, or that politics is not important enough, especially in local elections. It is a democratic, structural problem in which it is our responsibility for politicians to clean up – and it is traced. The sense of counting and meaning something and the fact that one thinks something is important to what society is going to look like, and we have to mobilize with every single person with the right to vote in Norway. That democracy is not used to a greater extent in a time when we need what is hurting is dangerous. Then we need all local government and Stortinget to discuss what we can do to make it easier to change it. That's exactly why I want a national effort with politicians and the press to make politics clearer, the dividing lines clearer, the budget more conservative and our working closer to those we represent, so that everyone can participate in democracy on equal terms. One of the most important steps we can take is to stop political squabbling. There must be a discussion of what each batch will do after the selection. We've got to figure out the dividing lines. We in the Labour Party must talk about why we believe that our Community solutions are more important than the individual solutions of the Right, and vice versa. We need to talk about each other's project, and we need to talk about our own. But we can't have any more single case debates with promises of concrete actions that are not being carried out. Unfortunately, there is not a single party that can throw a stone in this glass house. One of the most serious violations of democratic gamblers in election fighting and political activity in modern times can be found in my own town, Bergen. The Right Party and the Advance Party ran a tough election fight with the promise to remove the property tax. They wouldn't even discuss how today's Right system turns out unfair. That was not necessary, because the Right would remove the property tax anyway. Disagreement on the use of property taxes as a means of resolving welfare tasks is an entirely honest matter. But it's not an honest matter of the Right and the Progress Party weeks after the election to present a budget that is staggered by property taxes. It's dishonest, and it's dangerous for the democracy we own together. The voters should feel that they get what they vote on, and politicians should promote political participation, not harm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3707	As a district representative, I see the need to talk about the police force we have around the country. My opinion is that in recent years there has been a significant distance between the Right in opposition and the sitting government on the reality out in the police districts. Let me briefly refer to several questions I have asked Minister of Justice Knut Storberget: In Document No. 15:487 for 2007-2008 and in Document No 15:504 for 2009–2010 I asked the Council of State if he would contribute to the policing and county council in More and Romesdal having the framework conditions to employ qualified professionals in vacant positions, while at the same time providing the necessary investment resources to upgrade the car park and worn-out equipment. In Document No: 15:1449 for 2008-2009 I asked if the Council of State would look at figures from the Police Directorate that clearly show that the police districts of Sunnmøre and in North Moravia and Romesdal are getting less of the overall framework than the national average. The background to the question was that the county had 1.12 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants, towards the national average, which was 1.8, and towards the goal of the Storting, which is 2 per 1 000 inhabitants. During these years more money has been allocated to the police. Despite this, the Right has received several concerns that the challenges for the police are still, and are growing in part, in our state. The answers I received to my questions were not due to the fact that the Stoltenberg administration has seen cause for concern. I realize that the tragedy of July 22 might be a paradigm shift. I fervently ask that there will not be an increase only to the PST and Oslo districts. Because in a reading in the Sunnmørsposten on July 16, the local team leader writes in the Police Joint Association for Sunnmøre, Jan Magnar Sandvik, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Sunny police districts continue to have the same police staff in 2010 as in 2006.’ He further states: ‘If Jens and Knut do not show action, the 2012 budget will be a copy of the 2011 budget. Sunmers will experience yet another fiscal year in which we will not be compensated for wage and price increases, with the consequences this will have.' Does the Minister of Justice and the Government see that there is greater cause for concern about Norwegian police force than the government has previously stated? And does Jens and Knut take the call from the police trustees at Sunnmøre to show the necessary action there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3730	I will start by sharing the concern of the representative Jette Christensen about the electoral participation in this year's municipal and county elections. After the politically motivated terrorist attacks against the government quarter and against the AUF on the Utah, we were many who hoped, and who fervently called for election participation and going and voting to be the answer. We did not have that hope fulfilled. Election attendance only went up marginally. This year's election round continues to provide the basis for looking for the necessary changes to increase participation in future elections. It is crucial for the legitimacy of the People's Rule that the electoral process is high enough. Another important prerequisite for local self-government is the framework conditions. It must be seen as interesting, with real opportunities to make political choices for those who make elections in municipal governments and county councils around the country, and it must be seen as real choices for the inhabitants of the municipalities. Keeping order in your own economy is a prerequisite for prioritizing, making choices. And just as the government controls the country, the municipalities have to conduct a responsible budgetary policy. The government’s contribution to improving the framework conditions is primarily to strengthen the income of municipalities significantly during the period. The annual free revenues of municipalities have been increased by about 48 B.C.E. kr since 2005. This gives municipalities the opportunity to strengthen child protection, give priority to schools or upgrade care for the elderly, in line with the local priorities and needs of the elected representatives. The responses of the right-wing parties are less discretionary and poorer framework conditions for municipalities. When they themselves sat with government powers, tax cuts were prioritised, rather than more money for municipalities to improve school and health and care services. Now we hear the right parties claim that there will be more money for the municipalities if they get government, and so each year they add a few billion more to the government budget. But there's only one part of the calculation, because they'll at the same time take away the property tax, which ensures Norwegian municipalities 7 billion. kr in revenue in 2011. Cut in taxes on wealth, we've heard today, is still the most important issue in economic policy, but we haven't heard any of the people who have been in charge of removing taxes on wealth, say something about how the 9 billion. The municipalities are to be covered. The Right Party and the Advance Party will also have a different distribution of the tax between municipalities, which ensures an increase in the budget for 77 municipalities. But no one says anything about the back of the medal, which is the 353 municipalities that are losing on such a conversion. The fact that local elected representatives have a decisive influence on kindergarten, primary school, health care and care and care is a value in itself for the Workers' Party. If you were to be taboo, it might be tempting to say that with the economic policies of the right parties for the municipalities, the role of the elected representatives is primarily to decide which offers are to be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3743	There are a lot of issues you can talk about in a throne debate, and it also reflects this debate today. There are big and small things that affect us, either individually or as a nation. As both party politicians from the district and member of the business committee, industrial policy and transport policy are something that concerns me very much. In order for us to have viable districts, we need a comprehensive business life, where freedom for individuals must be present – the freedom to establish new businesses and opportunities to succeed as well as possibly fail. It is a failure if the market does not demand the goods or services you offer. What can be positive is that you've tried. Maybe someone else can take over and succeed later, or maybe you've got new ideas that can be tried out, and thus maybe succeed. If you succeed, you will be able to pay for the services of the community, but the individual's tax and tax burdens must be proportionate to what each enterprise can do, without the company feeling that this is too burdensome. But taxes on wealth and inheritance must be something that should be removed as soon as possible. In order for business to be in the districts, we need a transport network to meet business needs. On my innumerable company visits around the country, as it were, every time bad roads have been a topic that goes on again – either the road is too narrow, has too poor axle loads, there is a lack of maintenance, etc. Goods and services are to be both in and out of the districts, and distances are often large. It is therefore essential for enterprises to maintain the road network and not least to expand it. The same applies to housing in the districts. Those living in the districts must have a good transport offer in order for their everyday lives — challenges, among other things. work travel and transport of children – shall work. It is also about road safety for individuals. Speaking of road safety: Many carjackers have had busy days this week, as it is paid NOK 1000 extra for the delivery of old cars. This should be reflected in the state budget by increasing the wreckage. We have a very old car park, which both pollutes more and is more dangerous than the new cars are. Finally, I would like to talk about new rv. 3/25 through Elverum and Loot. With a toll ratio of 93 pst. It goes without saying that this would be an excessive burden both on business and on private cars. We need new roads, but tolls are the wrong way to fund this. To that end, the state has enough financial resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3758	We have behind us a local election with a wonderful opening up on Right's policy. Around the whole country, the Right has had a fantastic progress, and there have become many Right-Presidents who are now ready to set their blue color on their everyday lives in the Municipality of Norway. It's a good backstop for this persuasion debate. Consumers want better education policies, better care and an optimistic focus on industrial development and trade. It's obvious that there's now a powerful right-wing wave going on, and we also see that here today, with a red-green government that uses a lot of power to try to control this. Right looks forward to a working year at Stortinget where we're going to use the forces to show the difference between red-green policy and right their clear options. As in the election campaign, we're going to talk about our own policies, not spending time and energy criticising hopeless red-green policies. Right has waged a campaign with dignity and has given way to political opponents. We have taken seriously the desire for a government based on respect and tolerance. That's why it's sad when the red-green government parties use this persuasion debate to spread untruth and rake down on Right's policy. It's quite embarrassing to right-wing representative Terje Aasland's claim that right-wing policy will tear down the Norwegian model. It is regrettable that the Prime Minister and others continue to repeat their false claims about what they call their right-wing irresponsible tax policy with tens of billions in tax cuts – which they claim will destroy the possibilities for creating well-being. History shows that if one reduces taxes on business and people most, the growth will be higher. Business is more likely to create profits and profits. It gives up more jobs and increases tax revenue to the country. Right wants to pursue a policy that creates more, not taxes anymore. Right will pursue a policy that facilitates a strong business life, which creates values and guarantees well-being. Knowledge and competitiveness are the key to it. Right will pursue a policy that provides knowledge in school, where students get the very best basis to cope with the rest of their lives, and where the teacher is the most important input to achieve it. Right will pursue a policy of quality in care, where strengthening the competences of individuals added is the key to achieving it. Right wants to let go of all good forces to strengthen well-being. It's incredible that the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party do not see that ideal and private institutions and voluntary organizations create a lot of well-being for the inhabitants of our country. I want to challenge these parties to answer why they actively oppose those who thus want to be involved in further developing the welfare of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3779	All of us human beings are unique, irreplaceable and equally worth. Each of us should have the opportunity to realize his dream of a good life. We believe that social democracy best achieves this goal. We want a society that's going to take care of those who aren't doing it on their own, and make sure they can live a good life. Solidarity between people is a prerequisite for creating such a society. The most important resource we have in this country is we who live here. Without people working, no values are created. And without value creation, there will be no good to distribute either. I was very pleased that the content of the throne had focused on the areas in which this government wants to bet. I'm from Northland. There we have great natural resources in the form of fish, minerals, oil, gas, hydropower and great nature. Further development of these resources in my country and elsewhere is important. That's why I'm very pleased that the government is adding up to an active enterprise policy for the whole country and will bet on areas where we have special prerequisites for creating values. The northern regions are such an area. This area will remain the main strategic focus of the government and will be further strengthened, in line with the Communication to be submitted to the Size of the harvest. In addition, tourism and mineral strategies are being pursued. The government will also help to further develop the role of the maritime food industry as value creations along our coast. Oil and gas exploration activities shall be maintained. Provision shall be made to enable the oil industry to have access to interesting exploration areas. In his contribution, Right Elisabeth Aspaker produced what if this government has not invested in knowledge and research. I agree that this area is essential to succeed in the future. That's why we have great ambitions in this area. Under the red-green government, the appropriations for this purpose had a real growth of 27 pst. Aspacer also gave the impression that the basic industries are struggling. I'm assuming that the seafood industry is in that picture. Then Aspaker could not have realized that the export of Norwegian seafood sets one record after another, and is the second largest export industry after oil. Not enough with that, a short time ago we could read on the NRK that fishermen along the coast have had a good year and fished for 5.3 billion. kr. This is good news. There are great values that benefit local business. And as he said, Managing Director of Nordland County's Fiskarlag: ‘When fisheries are doing well, local communities are also doing very well.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3799	The debate today has shown that there is a great deal of disagreement between the government and the opposition in the area of property taxes. This will be one of the important themes ahead of the 2013 elections. The government will tax working capital, such as goods, machinery and equipment, while in the Progress Party we will eliminate the property tax. The private sector depends on investment. If investments are to be made, there must be someone in this country who has money and who is willing to invest them in the development of businesses and the creation of jobs. The state is entirely dependent on the private sector, that investments are made, and that Norwegian companies have capital, goods, equipment and machinery for their business. The State cannot live alone by levying taxes and contributions from its own employees. Therefore, the private sector is so important. Abolition of taxes on wealth is therefore an important measure to ensure Norwegian jobs, secure production, growth, development and prosperity in Norway. It therefore seems a little serious when the Prime Minister earlier today fell for the temptation to call this to give tax relief to what he called the richest percentage of the population. Honestly, I thought this was a rhetoric that was not used outside the ideological seminars of the Socialist Left Party. This is a vocabulary that reminds us of old-fashioned class struggles, the time when fighting the rich capitalists was a valid policy. Today, we know that investors, business owners and business leaders are absolutely essential for the value-creating, private, self-financing sector in society to function properly, not only for its own part, but to enable the Workers' Party and the Government to finance all kinds of public welfare measures. Therefore, it is not to grant subsidies to the 1 pst to remove the taxes on wealth. richest – that’s wise and gives more and safer jobs to ordinary employees. The representative No Marte Thorkildsen of the Socialist Left Party was asked today in the Dagsrevy whether she was able to see that the wealth tax could lead to job losses. She replied that yes, that might happen, but it's more important with a fair tax system. Then we know that – in the Socialist Left Party you think it's perfectly okay that people lose their jobs, only it happens in a fair way. From a joke to a serious one: that representatives of the Socialist Left hate to see that someone is using their savings to invest in businesses, production and community construction, we're used to it. The fact that the Prime Minister is being lured into the same type of rhetoric, on the other hand, is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3816	Being born in Norway is like having won in Lotto initially. The Trontals were also characterised by many alert responses as well as by both strategies and outreach messages. This is in stark contrast to similar discussions in Europe, where there is only talk of downsizing. The representative of Solberg said in his speech earlier today that Norway falls on all barometers that measure competitiveness and innovation. Right’s background material is an investigation conducted by the Swiss Commercial Hedge, IMD, where Norway falls from 9th to 13th place on the ranking of best competitive countries in the world, and the main cause is Norway’s high wage growth. Furthermore, we have a complicated tax system, high taxes and a slightly flexible labour market. In these areas, the Right Party and the Labour Party have completely different policies. There are probably also other rankings that the Right will take in income for the black paint of the situation of the enterprises in this country. There are actually a number of indicators in the different ratings. For the Labour Party, it is and will be more important to call on the welfare state and workers' rights and to have a fair tax system than to be ranked at the top of such statistics. I would like to draw up two indices which show that Norway is at the forefront in terms of competitiveness and innovation. In the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ report for 2011, Norway is ranked number 8 out of 183 countries. At the World Economic Forum, Norway is also the number 14 of 134 countries in the year. Norway is the world’s best country to live year after year, while Norway is one of the best countries in the world to do business. This combination is quite unique; you can't find it in other countries, but this is not commented by the Right in a word - not one word. Norway has a significantly stronger growth in the private sector, in private enterprises, now than under the Right-Hand-Government. This is the best indicator that Norway is doing well. The Right Party will change the Norwegian model to have a small public sector with private providers also within schools and health services – but paid by the State. So the Norwegian tax credits should be able to go to private profit. And then we're going to have American tax levels. Both in our country and in the rest of Europe, the right-wing party has its political practices and rhetoric influenced by the illusion that lower taxes and a smaller public sector are a driving force for economic growth. But relatively high taxes contribute to redistribution from those who have much to those who have less, and it guarantees the state income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3835	In today's debate, various attempts have been made to identify and concreteise the political differences between the Right and the Labour Party. Some precise and some more imprecise attempts have been made. The representative of Kolberg's trial contained so many actual errors and was then until those degrees detached from reality that it qualified for a separate post from our side. The worker party's definitions of some economic concepts are, first of all, after corrections. Secondly, if they get attached, they're a danger to the well-being we're going to develop. When Kolberg accuses Right of being afraid of a strong state, our automatic follow-up question is whether there is a limit to how big and strong a state should be. Can it be, we think, that an overly strong state can be a danger to the creation of value and thus threaten the well-being? Yes, of course, the vast majority of people who are interested in the question – but not Kolberg. We believe it is important to look for the balance between the power of state and the power of a competitive business to safeguard welfare systems. So to the debate on competitiveness and what the term might contain. Both the Prime Minister and Martin Kolberg live in the error that competitiveness means high employment. It's wrong -- fundamentally wrong. High employment is a result of many things. It may also result from good and high competitiveness. If high employment was equivalent to the ability of Norwegian industry to compete internationally, we would not discuss the problems of the company REC in these days. If high employment was high competitiveness, we wouldn't have seen a single Norwegian job being moved out of the country. Unfortunately, the reality is not like that. Nor is competitiveness a prime minister travelling in door factories, or a prime minister promoting Swedish footscrapers during the election campaign in Tromsø. Competitive force is measured, inter alia: the cost of producing a product, idea or project in the quality that the customer will have compared to the costs of competitors in other countries. Competitiveness is measured in the ability of Norwegian industry to innovate in order to compensate for a higher level of wages, taxes and charges. Competitiveness can be measured in innovation, so that Norwegian businesses have the ability to adapt strongly enough to make the necessary changes as competition outside the world changes. It is this competitiveness that has weakened. That is what we from the Right have said and tried to call for warning. It is this scenario that causes the right to be concerned with Norwegian business framework conditions, including tax pressures. A feared image of high employment that has taken place can be explained quickly by politicians who did not allow conditions to create a competitive business, thus distorting the basis for our well-being. Security of well-being requires a highly competitive business. That security is created through Right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3857	We're going into a time of increasing economic uncertainty. Let me say it's thoughtful that so many of the representatives of the government parties spend so much time and are so concerned with any new possible government constellations in what is today the opposition. It can almost seem as if you have started the grieving process in advance of a possible election defeat in 2013! There would have been reason to hope that more from the majority of the Storting had given their answers on how to increase security and reduce uncertainty in the time we go into it. Take, for example: Nord-Trøndelag. There we hear from the forestry industry that there are fears of closures of sawn farming in the northern Trendelag forest district, one of the largest forest areas in the country. Why do you fear funerals there? It's not because of economic uncertainty. It's not because of increased costs. No, it's because you don't get enough timber – in the forest district of Nord-Trøndelag! The county has 65 pst. of the operational resources of the so-called non-interventional natural areas. When the forest industry in Nord-Trøndelag told the responsible state council, Environment Minister Erik Solheim, what answer does he give on behalf of the government? Yes, the forest industry is exaggerating! It does not create safety and security for neither jobs nor industrial development. The right will enable us to get a value creation also based on the mainland's natural resources. Then we need to build that value creation, trust landowners, small businesses and family businesses across the country, which enable us to use the natural resources and remove many of the obstacles that we are experiencing today to create uncertainty, with reference to the example of Nord-Trøndelag. We need to ensure that municipalities are given greater autonomy and away from state overgovernments, which also restrict the ability of municipalities to play a part in economic development. If we had done that, we would have created economic development and security to a greater extent than what we experience with the government's policies today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3866	What characterizes our little country? Yes, we are a proud and peaceful people who greatly appreciate values such as cohesion, love and fellowship. This experienced an entire nation after July 22nd. We are a people who understand the importance of creating to be able to distribute. The Norwegian welfare model is based on this – that we, as individuals, can contribute back to the welfare society through a solidarity of taxation policies, a tax policy in which those who serve the most contribute the most. This is income to enable young children’s parents to be at home with their newborns for more than one year of income so that we have full child care coverage, so that parents can combine family and work life, and that our children have a safe place to be in a good and instructive community income so that our children and young people have a common school, where tolerance, inclusion and integration are important carriers in addition to good professional education income that ensures individuals’ income from sickness, unemployment or disability income that continues to ensure new and better health services throughout the country, health services of high quality and proximity to the individual. income to benefit from a good and dignified care for the elderly, where the elderly have the freedom to choose whether to live at home or if they want a place in a nursing home or in a nursing home, should income be necessary to ensure that current and future pensioners receive a pension from which they can live; In order for our small country to remain a safe and good port, I am convinced that having good order in its own economy is absolutely essential. The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have, for six years, by a majority behind them in the Stortinget and a red-green government has governed the country through various crises with great wit and has created great peace and security in society. That's why it's important, as we point out here, to know which other government option is going to be stacked on its legs. What is the policy of the second government option? Are they able to lead this country with the security and solidarity shown over these years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3895	In various newspapers and media, we have recently, and most recently today, read that the minister of the church is rattling with the shackles and threatens to break the church settlement, which means that the church will be free to hire its own leaders. The reason for these opinions should appear to be low turnout in church elections, even though the turnout increased. The Church's choice has been made as a preference, which gives voters a very great opportunity to influence the election result, so democracy was very well maintained in this respect. It is just that the form of the election is clearly not well known among the voters, which led to the rejection of many votes. Both central and local church leaders have gone out several days ago and have been asked to change the electoral system in consultation with magnificence and government. However, when one sees, day after day, posts where the minister of the church sowed doubts about the church settlement, which by the way does not have as one of his criteria that a certain percentage of the members are going to participate in the election, I really expected the minister to include this in his intervention in this important debate. So it wasn't done. The Minister's statements in the media may indicate and be seen as not a supporter of the Church's decision in her own country. This is an important matter that concerns a lot of people. Many have done a lot of work to get candidates to stand on lists, as well as spending a lot of their time in church elections. Then it may seem both sad and disrespectful to so doubt the conciliation, especially when the Church itself is concerned about getting hopefully good advice from the magnificence and government to settle the election in a better way. It would have been very good to find out if this is something the whole government is talking about, or if it's a solo game from the minister of the church. The question is then: will the Minister use this opportunity to clarify the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3906	«Employers», «thinking seas», «taking responsibility», «practical professions», «authorised persons» are good words of honor. As a farmer, I am privileged because I have had to deal with different situations and demands, make decisions and bear the consequences of my own choice. This is how the profession is so important, because it requires that one is versatile. You are forced to make decisions that relate to very different situations. In today's society, there is too much detail management and control from the overall level. The job and motivation come from the fact that people get to use their seas and take responsibility, be met with confidence and not with retail systems. Officials have the greatest control in themselves, not in the form of overall control. Our health professionals will focus on the meeting between patients and treating staff, not on training in DRG encoding. Our teachers will focus on the conversation in the classroom and the learning environment, not on the reporting of screening tests. It is a person with better health and greater knowledge of the realities of life that is the whole point. I wonder about today's society, which has too little as a model for the seagoing, authoritative human being with respect for the understanding of others at all levels of society. Only then, when we understand that others have insight into their situation and good reasons for their decisions and choices, it is natural to show respect for others. It is on this human basis that equality in society is created, a level playing field that then needs to be continuously followed up by a red-green policy, which creates more equivalent economic conditions among people. There is a major focus in Norway today on unspecified cultural diversity and human rights, and it must be defended. But what I'm talking about is too low a course. We need to encourage more the formation of legitimate people and train young people in it. The great tragedy of Utøya and the central administration of Oslo has once again reminded me of the need for a society of many such people who, in difficult situations, take responsibility. There are many of us who have a lot to learn from skilled professionals in the practical professions. All work is a subject. As political leaders, I hope several of us can show increased respect for the work hands in the assignment, education and in the paid and unpaid working life. There are many such good examples for young people. Let's get them out in our language. New public systems can never replace responsible and responsible people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3919	Today many have said very well about 22 July, and about the cohesion and sorrow in Norway afterwards. For me, it's also impossible to start any other place than there. I think the German journalist Anna Reimann wrote the finest thing I've ever read about it in Der Spiegel. She writes, among other things:: Even in his deepest sorrow, the nordics do not become hysterical. They oppose the hatred. It's great to see how politicians and the whole country react. They are sad to the deepest thread of their soul. They cry with dignity. But no one swears to take revenge. Instead, they will have even more humanity and democracy. It is one of the most remarkable forces of this small country. I think one of the reasons why it was at all possible for us to react this way as a nation was that we are a society of small differences. Small differences mean a community built on community, equality, freedom, brotherhood and sisterhood. What we saw after July 22 showed just how strong that community can be — both the community of people, and the strength of the efforts of a number of public officials in the police, the ambulance service, the hospitals and the fire department showed us. Many have thanked the Prime Minister today. I will, too, but I would also like to thank the army of those who did the difficult job of being a politician, an ambulance driver and a fireman that day. Many of the opposition have today called for a better, stronger and stronger public sector crisis response. It's basically affordable. But I have to point out that these are exactly the same right parties that the rest of the year are in line to build up public welfare and to give tax relief to those who have the most from before. For years, the right-hand side has told us that the welfare state is a barrier to the development of a better society, that it doesn't matter how big the differences in society are, as long as we raise the poorest. But I believe that the July 22 experience shows that they are wrong. That shows the opposite. Many people have mentioned The Spirit Level today – both the representative Marthinsen and the representative Thorkildsen – a book that summarises 30 years of research, and the result is unambiguous: great differences are married to society. Society with small differences has higher life expectancy, less child mortality, better mental health, and even more so for the population. And not least in this context: we who live in societies with small differences have greater trust in each other. We know the recipe for the equality society in this room. It is that everyone contributes to the community through taxes — everyone, including through taxes on wealth. It's trade unions, and it's good, universal welfare solutions for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3936	Europe is the framework of major economic challenges. The challenges are many places of such a nature as to be able to call them the major national crises. The unemployed and failing prospects are particularly evident for young people in many countries. This has serious consequences for families and communities. Here at home we have formed the embrace «Norwegian model». These are not just joke words, but a targeted policy direction – a policy direction in which work for all is an overarching goal because our largest resource is actually future work. The working party wants an active enterprise policy. We're going to use natural advantage and our competence to give business good conditions for development. Norway should be a stable and good country to operate in. Then we must ensure good governance and framework conditions both for businesses and for workers. In addition, by ensuring relatively small differences compared to other countries, we create communities that can be important to build on when global unrest also reaches Norway. We're not going to use over capacity. We're not going to waste the billions of oil. The generation contract ensures that future generations will also benefit from the resources we currently manage in the North Sea. Norway has so far been able not to fall into temptation for over-exploitation, which in turn can create over-heating in the economy and weaken competitiveness. We're different, we've been told before tonight. Yes, in fact, we can say that we are different in a positive sense. Clock control has given us Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have good, strong public services, and we have a well-functioning tripartite work in the world of work, where, through their different roles, the parties show responsibility for the development of society. Furthermore, through the targeted use of public resources, we have strengthened equality and today can boast of great professional participation from both sexes. This is not random. It is a targeted construction of the ‘Norwegian model’, or, if you like, call it the analogue country. Because when it comes to political direction, few things are as important as securing high levels of professional participation and low unemployment. It ensures well-being and good prospects for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3949	There has been a lot of talk about taxes and industrial policy here today. But I think the opposition makes business a bear service if it reduces and reduces industrial policy to a tax issue. Reducing the level of taxation in industrial policy is a strategy that suits low-cost countries, and not countries such as Norway, which need to invest in competition within quality and competence. Some time ago, a major survey was carried out among enterprises in the largest cities of Norway. The companies were asked what they meant was important for their company in the long term. Without comparison with other things, competence came to the fore. It turned out that when companies were asked what was important, they do not answer taxes – they respond to competences. When I'm out traveling and visiting businesses, large and small businesses, it's all the time that what they're most concerned about, is access to skilled labour and being able to hold on to skilled labour. Therefore, it is important to invest in competence at all levels of the enterprise. The best competitive force Norway has is that we have skilled labour at all levels, from the operator to the researcher. Therefore, this government is committed to competence at all levels. We're investing in further education to avoid non-response. We are investing in vocational training, and vocational training is actually very important to many companies in Norway. There are very few people who have talked about this before today. Furthermore, it is important to bet on research. Some people are trying to make a myth about what's happening to research in Norway today. One should probably learn to read a time series, because it's simply that this government has invested 27 pst. more on research than the former government, as the opposition did. It's not, like some people, especially from the Left, trying to talk about, a hump. It is also the case that it is not enough to obtain research and competence in education and research institutions. We're going to have to have that to business. It is therefore unlikely to be important to build networks between universities, colleges, colleges and small and medium-sized enterprises. We have some programmes in Norway that do, within what is called the NCE, the National Centre of Expertise and the Arena programme. It's program that the opposition, at least in the previous state budget, would cut. So I'm really excited to see if they want to do it this time as well. It's just the type of application that makes the competence come out to those who really need it in business. I'm going to stop saying that there are a lot of people who talk about indices of innovation and creativity here today. There are a lot of ways to read indexes, but the fact is that Norway is among the top ten on very many of the important indices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3964	I'm going to continue in a lot of ways where the previous speaker was relaxed, but it might be random. It is possible in the future that the state council of Tora Aasland has the government's most important job. She is the Minister of Research who will ensure that we in Norway develop the knowledge that gives our industry our innovative capacity, our society our innovative capacity and competitiveness in the future, and it is the competitiveness of industry that will ensure the well-being of the future. Norway never comes into the situation that we can compete at price, and I think that was the case with the previous speeches. The Tora Aasland Council was reported for today's debate, but she disappeared from the list of speakers, uncertainly for what reason, and perhaps it's a little symptomatic of what the government's research effort is currently. Unlike the previous speaker, I believe that it is not a myth that this government is not paying enough for research. What should Tora Aasland have said in this debate? Would she talk about the government's powerful commitment to the future? We remember earlier slicing. So the 2011 budget contained a real decline in the research budget – a real decline – and there is no myth either. Then it's interesting to look at other countries. Around us, both in Europe and in the world, there is a massive investment in research, and this is happening at a time when most countries, except Norway, are almost completely out of business, and in Norway we do not take advantage of this opportunity to bet ambitiously and massively. In the United Kingdom, they have cut public budgets. I think the cut is approx. 20 pst., and it creates a lot of raids and a lot of pain. One budget was not cut this year, and that was the research budget. It was the British Finance Minister who gave the reason why you didn't cut. He said: Our expenditure on science and research is the key to our future economic success – the key to our future economic success. Compared to this, then, the Norwegian government's Stoltenberg government's investment in research into the future, on the knowledge of the future, becomes strange. In this respect, it is not certain that the Minister of Research could have brought so much into this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3975	The red-green government started fresh six years ago with a promise that it would eliminate poverty. Four years later, it had moderated somewhat; it was to reduce and prevent poverty. Today, poverty reduction is not mentioned in one word – not because it does not exist, but perhaps because the government has failed. More and more children are growing up in poor families. We also see that more and more young people live by social security benefits. Most recently today we could hear that more and more immigrants who have completed the introduction programme are out of work. The Government is now notifying that there will be a better integration message. That message will not help anything unless much better measures are put in place to integrate all those from other cultures that have come to the country and now live on different social security benefits. Very many of the poor children live in these families. The way the government now meets the poor families is by increasing the food tax. Families who depend on a car, most of them, are being met with increasing toll costs, and more and more municipalities are introducing property taxes, which affect everyone. Even tenants get increased housing costs. Working for everyone is the main goal, says the government – everyone comes along. But there's a large group standing outside. The little leak that has come is that the government will now be investing in young people who are out of work. A lot of them are young people with mild mental disorders. In other words, a large group of other types of disability will not get the same bet. I look forward to Thursday and hope that I am wrong, because there are a lot of people who need much better measures than the government has come to. The HVPU reform has also not been followed up, and there are at least 10,000 long-term job vacancies for people with developmental disabilities. The interaction reform is at the door, and the municipalities are little prepared for what is coming. I can't understand how the Prime Minister should be able to fulfill his election promise from the election campaign on sick place to everyone, as long as there's not a big stake with earmarked funds to the municipalities. It's not that far, and it's disappointing. It helps little to stand and promise something in an election campaign on behalf of the state, if the state does not follow up with the necessary money, because there is a lot that is missing today. The interaction reform can have quite tragic consequences if it is not followed up in a completely different way from what the government intends to do. I hope there will be more on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e3992	Norway has a strong economy, which gives us freedom of action, and Norway has a low unemployment rate, which gives us security – unlike many European countries, which are struggling with high levels of government debt and high unemployment. Let us not forget that such a dream position as Norway has can easily be abused. We can easily be misled into believing that everything is growing into heaven. Nothing can grow into heaven. Without oil money, Norway had been in a completely different situation. We're not going to stop thinking in the present – it's important to act here and now – but without a clear strategy for where we're going, it's fast going wrong. For Norway, it is about using our financial autonomy to create long-term sustainability and security for both work and family. This is achieved through investment in infrastructure, with many direct roads, through knowledge at school, with the best teachers, and through predictable and good framework conditions for enterprises in Norway. A sustainable growth strategy will ensure well-being. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party appear without a clear overall strategy, and an appropriate description of them is Seneca the Ancient's statement: «Ignorantian quem portum petat nullus suus ventus est!» – «For those who do not know which port he is looking for, no wind is favorable!» We constantly see that there are many captains in the government. We are constantly seeing government councils that are not in agreement with each other, and we just have to state that the government's lack of port search is becoming more and more evident in various state councils' opinions, for example. climate policy, hospital policy and oil extraction in the north. That's when you don't know where to go. Seneca the older person’s statement ‘for those who do not know which port he is seeking, no wind is favourable’ is as tailor-made for this government. In the right we know where we're going: we're going to rust Norway for the future by creating more. A healthy and stable economy is the main prerequisite for everyone having a job to go to in the future. We ensure lasting well-being by creating more, not more taxes. We ensure lasting well-being by rewarding those who create jobs, not punishing them. Knowledge in school, research, development and innovation is a prerequisite for each of us to have the necessary prerequisites to get us into work and to be able to stand on our own feet. This restores Norway’s competitiveness. Right-wing investment in infrastructure, knowledge of school and good conditions for innovation ensure lasting well-being, and make it clear that we in the Right are using the most favourable wind to bring Norway there!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4017	The government states in the throne that care services are to be expanded and that the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left is to be followed up. And from 1 January, the cooperation reform begins. It aims to provide patients or residents with a better offer where they live. That's good. I also believe that the municipalities are doing well under certain conditions to meet this challenge. It is now boasted that the municipalities have gotten so infinitely many millions more to walk with. That's right. However, no one in the government says how much they have left for new measures when wage and price increases have taken place and new legal requirements have been followed up, such as for example. full childcare coverage and several school hours in primary school. Then the municipalities do not have much left for other measures. They do not have the funds for many new posts, as the Cooperation Reform will require. It is now three months before the Interaction Reform begins, and many municipalities are planning and expanding. It shall be in place on 1 January 2012. Then we're going to be able to accept an early outsourced patient. It's supposed to be professionals who accept, and this costs. We will certainly get what is promised, in Thursday's budget. But is that enough? Nope. The Prime Minister has all promised us no. I know that many municipalities now strongly consider imposing property taxes, or increasing them, in order to implement the reform. There are also many clear signals from statesmen that the allocation of discretionary funds depends on municipalities having put their full potential into practice in terms of revenue. Property tax is a tax without a social profile. It is a pity that local authorities are not given the opportunity to take any account of the payer's ability to pay. It is not easy to introduce a tax into the municipality that one knows affects them hard with the least ability to pay. When local politicians are given the opportunity to print property taxes, and to weigh the size of them, they should also have the opportunity to assess whether someone should drop a little cheaper. For example, the possibility of exempting minimum pensioners and others with a correspondingly low income and no wealth other than owner-occupied dwellings should be improved. Now that the Prime Minister promises us a tighter economy, and many municipalities think they have to introduce or increase the property tax, we should have a law that takes them into account with the least ability to pay. A fairer tax would facilitate the implementation of the scheme by municipalities. It will also be perceived as more just by the inhabitants of the municipalities. That is why the Christian People's Party – and I hope the government does – wants to consider amending Section 28 of the Property Tax Act, so that municipalities can introduce rules for the relaxation of property tax for special social reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4032	Today, hundreds of thousands of annual shifts in the care sector are carried out by relatives and voluntary organisations. Family-based care is currently a sector of the same size as the specialist services and a sector of the same size as the municipal care service, measured in the number of annual works carried out. Family-based care gets little attention and is not respected. Family care is barely recorded in the processing, statistics and public distribution. Family care is almost absent as a theme of political change. In its country-wide investigation in 2010, the Health Authority found that Norwegian municipalities ‘did not cartel and assessed the burden of care, the situation and the need for relief’, and that the handling of requests for relief was inadequate. Family care has been called the invisible care. But it's much more happening despite the system than because of the system. The report Innovation in Care was handed over to the government in June. It describes a good society as a society characterized by solidarity between generations, not just by transfers of money through taxes and taxes – solidarity by younger people making up for the elderly with their time and effort. The report calls for an indication of the tendency of recent years to make health and care services something that people should only stick to as consumers and consumers. One-sided consumer and consumer focus can help to stimulate discontent and undermine confidence in the community's systems. We also risk losing our own powers of action in relation to being able to take care of ourselves and others, when an overseen care becomes more and more professional. The Central Party will be a driver for the development of a clearer national policy for the many relatives with heavy care tasks. Today, many do not get enough relief. The studies of relatives of people with dementia show that up to 50 pst. self-developing health problems. Many people also have a difficult financial situation. We should consider extending the right to leave for care and care for close relatives and strengthening care pay to the level of care allowance. The combination of work and care needs to be facilitated, and we need to ensure more comprehensive and flexible relief mechanisms. At a time when we are faced with a high and increasing personnel need in the health sector, this assembly should be at least as busy with schemes to ensure recruitment to voluntary and family-based care, as with schemes to ensure recruitment to the more visible and ordinary public health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4047	It was the change of line after the Prime Minister's speech that led me to sign this debate. The chord shift focused on the possibilities of creating the jobs that we're going to live on in the future, and here I also have some reflections. This is about much more than property taxes. The representative Svein Flätten also had an almost endless misdemeanor description of the Norwegian business environment, so I allow myself to complement the proposal by pointing out that the World Bank ranks Norway as one of the world's best countries to do business. I don't think it's that bad. Then the image becomes a little bit more nuanced. In my view, there is no reason to hang so to those degrees with your head. I am proud of the action this government has taken to meet the business needs of simplification and red tape: exemption from audit obligations for small enterprises and reduced capital requirements at the start of the enterprise, to mention two important measures. The census highlights, among other things, two policy areas to which I would like to make some comments. A new strategy for the tourism industry, or a revised strategy, is to be put forward. I think that's good. A great deal of resources is being used to promote Norway. I think there is a reason to go through this resource use and make sure that the funds that public funds contribute have a satisfactory effect and promote a positive development in the industry. Then it is very gratifying that the census is clear that the government will develop a national strategy for the mineral industry. The Storting adopted a new mineral law in the spring of 2009. It is a little strange to think that the mining industry, which was the basis and engine of industrial development in Norway from the mid-19th century, has never been accommodated with a national policy paper. Here we go. The need for the mineral industry and the need for national policies are obvious. China and the EU are now looking towards Scandinavia to secure desirable mineral resources. It is important to develop a policy in this area to ensure that resources are monitored and developed in a sustainable way. The whole country should be given a better monitoring status. We're running now in North Norway. In my view, we should learn from oil and gas policy. The link between incentives to stimulate exploration and prospecting and taxation in order to ensure that a fair share of the value added benefits the country will, in my view, be a key point in a national strategy for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4062	In Norway, we can refer to high employment and low unemployment, but if we look at the figures, the picture is not as pink as at first sight. 800000 people of working age are out of work in whole or in part. 600000 of these are in health-related social security schemes. Employment is significantly lower among people with disabilities than it is for all others. Many of them are fully capable of working if work or tasks can be arranged for them. A good example is what we've seen at Telenor, at the Open Mind project. Despite the fact that inclusion of people with disabilities has been one of the three main objectives of the IA agreement – an agreement we have now had for eight years – little has been done to increase the number of people in work and job creation. The right is a society with opportunities for everyone, where everyone should be given the opportunity to be as self-employed as possible, to participate in employment and to participate in the development of wealth. This is why the Right has developed an employment strategy for people with disabilities, where we refer to several good measures that can help disabled people to function in the workplace. We just have to admit that in our welfare society we have not done enough to employ those who need a little extra organisation in a work situation. Recently, I have met several people who tell me about their experiences with the auxiliaries. They tell us that they are struggling with Nav, and they tell us about time-consuming search procedures for different arrangements, which are often not well-known in the case of permanent practitioners and employers. Sometimes they're actually not much known in Nav. I have to say it is simply sad to hear stories about young people with disabilities who are offered disability benefits in 18-year-old Nav. Rather, it should be that when a young disabled person contacts Nav for assistance and assistance in relation to the labour market, Nav’s assistance should be creative, targeted, accurate, rapid and effective. I feel that the government parties are constantly pointing out how happy they are with the high employment rate in this country and the seemingly low unemployment rate. But when we know that almost 80,000 disabled people are waiting for assistance and organization to get into work, we can't be satisfied with the state of things. We must use all good forces. Norway simply cannot afford to leave so many people out of the labour market involuntarily. Right-wing calls for more offensive government policies to facilitate the entry of disabled people into normal working life. We expect the notified action plan for people with disabilities to address this issue properly and to be followed up with sufficient resources. We are probably a little worried about this with the announced tight budget to be submitted on Thursday. Getting people to work is an important investment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4079	In the throne, it was announced that the government, on the basis of the church agreement, would contribute to the Norwegian Church's continuing to be a living and open people's church. This was the objective of a wide-ranging settlement on the Stortinget in 2008. For the Central Party, it was a clear premise for the State-Church settlement that the opening up of the church elections had to be considerably greater, and that we should get what can be called a democratic church, before any change in the state-Church relationship would happen. The election results from 2009 and 2011 show that this has not happened. The attendance of the Bishops' Council in 2011 was 10.59 p.m. The total attendance, if we count both the Council of Ministers and the Council of Bishops, was 13.47 p.m. by the persons entitled to vote. Even if we base the highest participation, I find it difficult to see that some will call this a major election participation and that a satisfactory democratic reform has been achieved in the Church. I am at least very pleased that Minister of the Church, Rigmor Aasrud, has given a clear signal that the election result should be taken seriously. Because if you're going to take the church settlement seriously, you can't separate the question of a low turnout and the further process. Election participation and democracy in the Church are precisely the prerequisite for a possible change in the state-to- church relationship. The appointment of bishops in the Church Council of State touches on the very core of the Church of State system, and I believe that that system is crucial to ensuring the diversity of the Episcopal College, which further reflects the multiplicity of the Church of the People. In order to ensure an open and living people's church, it is important that the government sees the seriousness of the low turnout, and that this will have consequences for the further process. Another broad settlement in the Storting is the agreement of predators. There have been many expectations, and many look forward to seeing the outcome of the changes proposed. This is an area that has generated great frustration over many years, and there has been a good picture of how conflicts are increasing when the distance between those who rule and those who are being controlled becomes too great. Now it is important that these changes are followed up in line with what is communicated from Stortinget. Those who live with this on their bodies must not take up the battle with the bureaucracy about how the Greatness settlement is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4094	In the Common Era, knowledge policy was, in effect, absent. At the same time, there are now many newly elected politicians who are ready to address their local challenges. For many of the representatives of the Right, this is just about school. Through the debate today, several red-green representatives have called for the Right Solutions to the challenges of the future. We've given the answers many times, but it's maybe not everyone wants to listen to them. More knowledge in school is one of the answers our representatives have given to meet the challenges they will face in the coming years. We have not only given it the answer in the debate today, but over very many years. If Norway is to succeed as a nation, business will increase its competitiveness, or if the individual growing up will be allowed to realize himself and his plans, there is no alternative but to invest more in the school. A good school policy cannot be chiseled out in its entirety centrally. A good school is created where the students live, and then it must be largely created by our local elected representatives – if the majority of the population gives them that opportunity. They don't do that today. The municipal minister was earlier today about local self-government, and she was surprisingly satisfied with the state. The central party I know is talking about local democracy, but the government of the state council is a member of, delivers the opposite in the area by area. The Ministry of Knowledge plans to send a proposal for a State standard for teachers at the hearing. That's the true opposite of local self-government. Today we lack teachers, and it is very doubtful whether such a standard will provide more teachers, but it will certainly lead to more bureaucrats writing and granting applications for exemptions. But the main reason for being skeptical about this proposal is that many municipalities need completely different priorities to provide their students with better training than today. It's kind of like the state school fruit scheme, but now with teachers instead of apples in the basket. Much is good in Norwegian school today, but we also have many challenges. The biggest challenge in very many municipalities is learning skills. Therefore, municipalities must be allowed to give priority to this. In other municipalities, they are struggling to finance time-consuming learning materials or modern ICT equipment, and they must then be allowed to give priority to this. In some places they lack teachers, but they do not come served in a dish, even if there is a standard of manpower from the state. If the government is serious when it talks about local democracy and that they are betting at school, they must also show this in practice and give local elected people the opportunity to conduct a school policy for the best of the students without the government having a foot on the brake and both hands on the wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4115	Today's debate on the throne has shown a touching consensus from the right on how important it is to listen to LO leader Roar Flöthen. As a trade union organization in the Joint Union, and therefore in the LO, this is of course very pleasing to hear. Erna Solberg even asked: ‘Why will the Prime Minister not listen to the LO leader?’ This time, it was Flöthen's play that he wanted a review of the property tax, which had clearly excited the representatives of the right-hand side. As far as I have registered, Roar Flåthen still believes that tax is an important part of the financing of our common well-being. He was also aware that he did not want changes that weaken the state's income. Nor shall such a review lead to a reduction in the tax burden on the wealthiest in society. Fleethen states that what characterises countries that do not have taxes on wealth is that they often have much higher taxes on property. Is it possible to assume that the Right Party and the Advance Party want the Prime Minister to listen to these parts of the fleet's play as well? SV leader Kristin Halvorsen tried a few weeks ago to raise a tax debate. This playback received a lot of countermeasures very quickly. Why, believe? Tax policy is also a policy of sharing. In large parts of Europe and elsewhere, there is a financial crisis. Most people experience very tough limitations in their well-being. In the United States, President Obama has announced that he will increase the taxes for the richest, thus improving well-being. In Norway, the level of taxation has been so high that it is decided to keep it at the level of 2004. What we call the property tax strange is a truth with certain modifications. In this case, it is also strange that property taxes in Norway are well below the average in Europe, and lower than in our neighbouring countries. In several articles today, the right has said that they want to remove what they call the strange wealth tax. Then the question is, would the Right go in to increase the strangely low property tax as well? In today's meeting, the Progress Party promoted a proposal that Siv Jensen said was identical to what Fleethen is proposing. Then I allow myself to ask if it is such that the Progress Party supports all the elements of the fleet's play. It would be of great interest if the Right Party and the Advance Party could clarify this to Stortinget. There are many in Norway who become very rich in doing business, so it can't be very bad. It is a fact that the wealth tax we have today provides a good social cohesion and distribution profile. The fact that approx. 2.5 pst. of the country's richest pay more than half of this, suggesting that it hits quite well. SV has nothing against a discussion about taxes, but then the Right Party and the Advance Party must stop picking out just the pieces that fit into their own ideological puzzles. Everyone wants well-being, but well-being is also to be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4136	September is the month of committee travel. The Church, Education and Research Committee has been in Scotland, Edinburgh, and we have got an insight into the Scottish training system as it works both in theory and practice. We were looking in particular for points of the work on the Storing Message that we are doing in the case of high school. There is also a big message that we are going to debate and subsequently adopt in the autumn winter here in this Chamber. The joy of having your own thoughts and ideas confirmed is difficult to overestimate. And yes, I was very happy throughout my stay in Edinburgh. It was more than because I had an opportunity to fly in the city park in shorts at 25 degrees. The first thing I want to draw out is that in meeting both practitioners and people from the administration, they were so obviously proud and value-based when it was all about what they were doing in the field of education. Keywords, or should we rather call it a keyword, which went on again, was wisdom, justice, empathy, commitment, integrity. Schools should be something far more than – let's say – the narrow, the instrumental. They had a concept of knowledge that went far beyond that. Knowledge and basic reading and writing skills are of course important, but a school must be something far more in a modern society. That underscored everyone we met. The next thing that hit me, and that's going to happen, is that this whole value base that they laid down was that they were very concerned that the students were going to learn together, and they were going to learn to live together while they were going to school. At the same time, it was very important both to see and to make positive expectations of individual life in collaboration with parents. There was a lot of talk about school being a community. It was supposed to be a community. And what I, as an SV, think was particularly interesting was that they were still stressing how essential it was that there was joy, humor and warmth in this school community. It was crucial for learning. At home, ‘cosy school’ has been used almost as a ridiculous concept from right-wing politicians. In Edinburgh, kos was actually a necessary element in a modern school. One last point that particularly impressed me was that they had mandatory elements of community work, that the students should go out and participate in volunteer work. It could be among young people. It could be among the elderly, and it could be related to drug prevention, etc. Then it's probably unnecessary to say that it was seaworthy to serve food at such a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4155	In these days, we can enjoy the new discovery of oil in the North Sea. It can be concluded with caution that Norway, as a nation, has made reasonable reliance on this important industry. Now there is once again a trace of optimism in the industry. Operators, subcontractors, employees and not least the State can enjoy new billions of revenue. Doubts have been raised as to whether this is a forward-looking industry. The government has spent unnecessary years reporting a petroleum message. New search areas have been in and out of prison, and there has been a conflict. The way climate issues have been discussed has helped to damage the reputation of the industry. One would like to be left with the impression that this is an industry that goes into the sunset. The latest findings show that Norway will be a significant oil nation for many years to come, with all the benefits it will bring us. What has made this possible? Is the current arrangements for the petroleum industry the cause? No, no, no. It is research programmes, developed in the 1990s, that gave us new search technologies and that resulted in new findings. It shows how important an organisation and not least a continuity in the building of competences is. Then it is necessary to focus on petroleum-related research. Since 2006, funding for this research has been reduced by 30 pst. When we see what challenges this industry is facing, it is incomprehensible. We want to drill at larger depths. We want a greater exploitation of existing findings. We will make less findings driving, and we will not least minimise the risk of accidents and environmental challenges. Then, of course, it is unacceptable that one does not share in prioritising funds for research, a research that can ensure that we too can enjoy new findings in 2030. It is very important that Norway stands out as a nation that prioritises this important industry. The government must then be involved in building up the reputation of the industry, which means that our young people are choosing to take up education in the petroleum industry. The University of Stavanger currently has a significant overweight of foreign students in petroleum-related studies. I am not concerned that foreigners give priority to education in Norway. But it's the absence of Norwegian students in these studies that worries me. I hope, therefore, that we will see a government budget in which the government rates on this industry, rates on studies and rates of petroleum-related research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4170	We've just put behind us a different local election fight. There has been a greater focus on local issues and candidates than before, and there has been a youth choice. Young people answered terror with commitment. The interesting question is whether the joyous increase in youth exposure we have seen over the past few weeks will last. The center party thinks we can get to it if we actually give young people power and opportunities. We need to develop and expand youth democracy. A State Council from the Centre Party had to be carried out before the trial project with the right to vote for 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds was carried out. The results show that they're about as good at going and voting as the rest of the population. It will be exciting to follow the evaluation of the project and the debate on reducing the age of voting rights will come to an end. I tend to be too, but at the same time it is important that the debate on youth exposure is about more than two years' coal and one day every two years. The centre party will give young people power and opportunities every day. Norway is, after the election, full of young, local people elected to ensure a more representative local democracy. I'm talking about experience. Kommune-Norge has many impatient young people with visions for their communities. Many municipalities adorn themselves with a youth council. At the same time we know that far from all works well. I am therefore pleased that the municipal minister has challenged the municipalities so clearly to give the youth councils more power. A sustainable youth exposure requires a continued commitment to volunteering. We are still not in the target of simplification and of giving the volunteer space to be a co-player in key societal areas. To put it this way, the government still has to put trust in row and row, so that volunteering doesn't fall between them. The next milestone for voluntary Norway will be youth OL in 2016 – one that was handed over to the Stortinget earlier today. In addition to sport, culture and education are at the heart of the event, and we all have opportunities to engage widely. Young people’s Olympics need to interact with public, private and voluntary actors at local, regional, national and not least international levels. We're going to have high ambitions, and we're going to fulfill and show the world the best Youth Olympic Games ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4187	The event on July 22 has seen tracks with all of us, we feel with all of them involved. I want to use this opportunity to send a great thank you to the Prime Minister for a dignified and powerful presence in a difficult time. I hope that all those involved will be well cared for in the face of life – because that is where the major challenges will come. Right after this event, I was contacted by a father who lost his love on July 22nd. The son died suddenly in an accident, but not on the island or in the government quarter. With this I want to focus on that many lose someone one is happy in under other circumstances. These also have a demand for help in a difficult time. He sat there in loneliness and didn't quite know what to do – everything was just chaos. Then he said, "Maybe it would have been better if my son had also died on the island, because then the help offices had automatically been connected, while I now have to look to find out for myself. These were tough words to hear, but there were also words to think about, that we must never forget that everyone has the same rights to help and support, and that we must never go empty of humanity in heavy times. Work for everyone – says the Prime Minister – is important. One of the most important things is that our youth must get the best start to get through education and beyond into the labour market. It's not like that for everyone, someone falls from the way. The decline in further education is a major challenge. We know that a lot of projects in this case are on track and can show good results. But we always have to focus on this important area. This is fortifying our youth. The fact that we also get more young people disabled is also frightening. One needs all the workers you can get, and one cannot accept that young people will be disabled without having to try in different areas – and perhaps avoid becoming disabled. That's it. That's it. We forget that there's a lot more to it than finding any residual working capacity in a human being, about a struggle with the physical or the mental, or maybe both. How does a person actually go about finding out? Is it perhaps easiest to declare yourself unfit because it is easier for the system? It can't be like that. One I talked to in the election campaign, said this: there was no one on Nav who cared about what I could, wanted or wanted. The fact that I have a mental diagnosis was clearly not something that was on the agenda to find a potential working capacity. Unfortunately, more young people have become disabled, and this is not the way it should be. There is destruction of resources, as the Minister of Labour has also said. Maybe it's time to get a special section of Nav that's just going to work with younger people. There may be a solution to getting young people into a future working life. We don't have the right to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4205	On the way up to the pulpit, I suddenly got a grueling feeling that the president was seriously wondering what this representative was going to say, the one coming from the state with the best school results, with the least unemployment, with the most fertile women and with the least social challenges in the country. In short, we're at the top of the good statistics, and we're at the bottom of the bad statistics. Well, I shouldn't claim to be a mind reader, but I can verify all the good statistics. With the background of these statistics, I can also confirm that the people of Sogn and Fjordane have strong expectations for the government of the country. When I meet people who are engaged in travel, in power-processing industry, in fish food production, in the engineering industry, in short, much of our working life, I get a clear signal – I even get a index finger on my face: keep order in the economy. Because of the international debt crisis, the purchasing power around us is under strong pressure. So, for everything in the world, we need to avoid too strong a dollar price and a high interest rate. There is a fine balance between uncontrolled use of our oil revenues and the consequences for countless jobs. Norwegian business is well equipped to compete internationally. It's not like the right-hand side says that today's tax level is the biggest threat to our jobs, but a well-meaning and uncontrolled use of oil revenue is the threat when it's important to be sober. The Norwegian economy is in the midst of a competitive upturn in unemployment. Then it's bad policy to give economic gas. During the financial crisis a few years ago, the situation was quite different. When an expansive fiscal policy dampened the economic downturn, but at the same time led the use of oil revenues to a high level, above the adopted policy of 4 pst. the return. It was the right policy that time. Now the situation is very different. Therefore, it is an important and correct policy for value creation, for our cost level and for our jobs. The Labour Party's financial policy is thus suited to the challenges. My humble prayer, at the end of the day, is a little wish that the entire right side can adapt the oil use to the challenges. It is not that more use of oil money is the answer to all the questions, both in adversity and in demise, which are the Progress Party's medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4218	The representative Bente Thorsen challenged me in his post to clarify what I actually thought about the church settlement. Let me just remind you of some figures: at the council meeting, 416 000 people voted. In the Diocese Council, 310,000 persons voted. 7 000 of these were entitled to vote between 15 and 18 years of age. Yes, I have said that I was somewhat disappointed by the attendance at the church elections, although there was a slight progress from the previous elections. With the massive uprising we saw about the Norwegian Church after the tragic events in the government quarter and on Ut Island, I had actually thought that more people would participate in church democracy, although I am also aware that the numbers we are now operating with are 300 pst. higher than when we made the elections in the old way, and that we still have elections in Norway that are above what the Swedish model has, even though the church has its own tax law. But what I'm most disappointed about church elections is that 30,000 votes were rejected. So there were 30,000 people who used their voting rights, but that voice didn't count. When we then know that the agreement in Stortinget requires that we carry out an evaluation of the church elections, and that the electoral system is a central part of it, I think it is strange that someone is already sure that everything is all right. At least I will wait until the evaluation report is available so that we can assess it before drawing the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4229	It's a shame to have to use speaking time to fix a mistake so late at night, but there are up to several speakers here today who have claimed that the promises of research and development went down from 2010 to 2011. That's not correct. NIFU has carried out a budgetary analysis, and they conclude that in 2011 the research appropriations are at the same level as in 2010. And well, notice, we both have the top ages playing 27 pst. in real value above what the civil government has ever been able to achieve during its period of government. It's okay with fun rhetoric, but the facts must be at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4236	I'd like to clarify some facts, in the extension of the previous speaker's posts. Clearly, when you see developments in budgets over many years, all budgets will increase in nominal terms. There are no budgets that go down over time. The research budget has also increased over many years, but it has fallen in real terms in the current year. It's a little negative number, but it's the negative that kind of says something about a lack of ambition and a lack of bet from this government. It is that investment in research – if anyone is in doubt about it – is an investment in future value creation and innovation, and the two things are interrelated. It is the competitiveness of industry in the future that will safeguard future well-being. So this is actually pretty important. Therefore, it is very sad to see that Norway’s competitiveness and innovation capacity has been steadily declining in international measurements and indicators throughout the reign of the Stoltenberg government. But of course I can say something positive about research today. In fact, there is one sentence in the Common Era of Research. I have to say, unfortunately, that my own party leader, Erna Solberg, who said that there was no statement about knowledge, was a little wrong, because there is one sentence about research, and it reads as follows: ‘The government will focus on quality and will continue to focus on the results of research efforts.’ It's probably not the most ambitious sentence in this year's census. But that's a progress from last year, because then it was absolutely nothing. In the past there was nothing at all either. And besides, these thrones have been chemically free of important words and concepts such as innovation, research and development, innovation, etc., etc. Unfortunately, I think it says something about what is the priority of the current government. If there's something in the record that's going on today, and I think the NRC is going to confirm in the morning, that the government in the state budget that comes on Thursday is proposing to wind up the entire Research Fund, it's unfortunately a new example of a lack of investment. It is an unfortunate signal to send to an incredibly important sector for future Norway. That is the opposite of what is happening around us in the world, in the EU and in many other countries. It is an incredibly poor way to warn that the predictability of the research budget and the research sector has been removed during these years when the Research Fund has been built up, a work that started under the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4252	It's been a long day with lots of interesting articles. A throne speech is a little bit of lobster and canary, and it's very interesting that has emerged in the course of the discussion. Sometimes you can draw some reflections about the context of the attacks that meet a party. I've been attacked today because I'm talking too little about taxes, and I've been attacked because I'm talking about taxes, about taxes on wealth. It's a little bit like "damned if you don't, and damned if you do". It's the same thing anyway, it's obviously not appropriate whatever you're talking about. I want to make a small recommendation. Initially, I said a few words about what was important after July 22nd when it came to maintaining the consensus. I think it's important to make politics relevant, to make politics important enough for people, but the basic thing is actually not to suspect the motives of others – at any time try to find out that what you're talking about, not what you mean, when you mean something completely different. It does not benefit the political activity, it does not benefit us as politicians, nor is it political dividing lines, which some have been concerned about saying. No, there's an attempt to make policy less than it is. Politics is actually quite important, democracy is important, and I thought that after July 22nd, we too had to stand for it. I'm not going to comment on all of those speeches that have been said very strangely about Right Policy. We're probably going to have to discuss them very many times later. But I'll give you an explanation of vote. On the right, the principle holds that it is better for proposals to be dealt with in the Storting – so that the parties’ premises for why they vote for proposals, and why they vote against, are taken as a basis – than that we vote on many issues in the context of the debates on the throne. That's why we've always been reluctant to go into suggestions directly in the hall. That is why we will also be restrained in this debate by going into part of those proposals – some because we do not agree with them. Some of the proposals we agree with, but on our premises, and so we don't think it's right to vote for them regardless of the premises. We would rather have been a little better with regard to taking them up to full proceedings. So to proposal No. 5: It's a while until we get the oil revenues from Avaldsnes, and I'm absolutely sure the politicians who sit in the Stortinget in the 2020s will have the pleasure of evaluating how the revenues can best be used for infrastructure as well. I have so much confidence in a Right-led big thing in 2020 that it's going fine! We intend to vote in favour of proposal No. 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9 and 11, from the Christian People's Party. When we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 10, it's not because we're opposed to an action plan against poverty, but we think it's a kind of thing that should have been proposed in the Storting in a way where there could be premises related to this. The same applies to proposal No. 2, from the Left, that the government will return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a case concerning the phase-in of five-year primary school teacher training. We're for it, but we think there's one thing that could be treated in a better way than just taking it over the table here. So with this explanation of vote, I just want to say that these are the proposals we are voting for. – I can either draw another drawing or I can also give an explanation of vote on the proposal that goes on 22 July. I've used up my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4269	The President then believes that the representative should have the floor again, because there may be things in the posts that still remain, which may be worth commenting on. The President then perceived that the Right said that they would support the proposal No. 7, 9 and 11. Is that correct? - That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4274	It's been a day when we've had a lot of good debates. It's fun to be running again and testing each other a little bit, and I think it's been especially enjoyable for the government parties. It was at the beginning of today's almost a strange experience that the government parties needed to use four lines on the opposition leader of the Storting to get her to clarify what is now the strategy in relation to government participation, and to get the Advance Party to clarify who is their Prime Minister's candidate. That we had to use four pieces, four laps, to get that answer, shows us that we have a party that is partly out of balance, and that delights us in the government parties. I think it was a bit strange experience with the other strong women on the opposition side that we had to use several lines to clarify the Right EU position and the euro position. But it also says a little bit about the Right a day, for all the points of view that are a little controversial, they won't talk so loud about, because they might run into someone. Now one is just going to be in float mode, make sure that one doesn't say any things that offend anyone, because then one is going to win the election in two years. I think that strategy is going to fail, because politics is about to take a stand, is about to stand still and dry for the positions you take. But the third thing that pleases me a lot is the community you've seen between SV, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in many important things. Of the issues that have been debated today, it is alcohol policy, aid policy, we see it in district policy, we see it in the policy of distribution. It's a clear community of values that goes through the middle of the Storting, but it also goes across at the opposition parties. So for us in the three government parties it's been a good day. It has been a good start to a new year of work, and it makes me optimistic before the 2013 elections when you have to use so many lines to clarify the most elementary things in the largest opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4285	I am also very pleased that the Stortinget has started again, because I have missed the representative Battle Violence Vedum a lot, and finally we can have a change of words from this pulpit again. But I think the representative is enjoying himself a little too soon, and what this debate has shown, above all, is an amazing ability to self-scratch from the side of the red-green parties – very little ability to self-search, very little ability to take on that maybe not everything is as it should be, very little ability to listen to signals coming from both the opposition and far from people living out there in the real world. But self-criticism should be listened to, it comes from the heart, and then I think I shall leave the comments on this debate with it. I'll give you an explanation of vote. The Progress Party will support proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande and left. We will support all the proposals to the Christian People's Party, i.e. the proposals No. 9, 10 and 11. As regards proposal No: 11, we support it primarily because it is an investigation proposal. The Progress Party believes that the entire wealth tax should be abolished, but we do not see any reason to vote against an investigation proposal, and that is why we are voting in favour of those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4292	I would like to thank you for a long and committed debate. Then I just have a little comment for the representative, Solberg. Of course, I agree with her that we should not suspect each other's motives, but I hope she did not mean that we should cover up the ideological differences. These I think it's very important to get in the hall. At least we have tried from the Labour Party to find out today. We still want to focus on that. If we're going to take a joint responsibility to increase the turnout, it's a point that we show the voters what they have to choose from when to go to the polls next time. Then I will also give an explanation of vote. It concerns proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, which is about the ideal actors, which we've discussed many times in the hall here before, and will certainly come back to. We are going to vote against the proposal of the Christian People's Party, but we are in favour of the proposal. The reason why we vote no is that we would have wanted to take a little more of a reservation in relation to all actors providing health and social services. As State Council Aasrud has explained earlier this evening, the government intends to establish a cooperation agreement with HSH and Freedom Norway in 2012 on the interaction between the public sector and the non-profit service providers. The municipalities will be encouraged to do the same in the areas for which the municipalities are responsible. As you know, current agreements have now been concluded in the area of health in the south-east and the type of agreements which will be considered in order to conclude new agreements in other areas as well. So there are also many other things you want to do and evaluate along the way. We're going to have to get back to that. But I just wanted to be very clear that we share the Christian People's Party's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4307	I too would like to thank you for a long and timely debate. I would also like to thank you for your considerable support for the proposals we have made in this Chamber, even though the representative Helga Pedersen now had to explain why you are voting against something that you really are in favour of. Now I was not so very surprised, all the time the Prime Minister has announced that it will be a virtue to say no from the government. So it was probably in the cards that there was also a no to a proposal that, as Helga Pedersen said, was actually for. So it was the Social Battle Force Vedum, who was pleased with the community of values between the Red-Green and Christian Peoples. I will acknowledge this: we have noted with interest the great interest it has been for the Christian People's Party in this long debate. That so many parties, both to the right and to the left, feel a community of values with the Christian People's Party, we seem very positive, and it promises well to get a yellow stamp on politics. Finally, a explanation of vote: we are voting in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Left, and proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4316	I would also like to thank you for the debate that I have nothing wrong to say about. This is interesting for us at times. This is my second throne debate, and it has struck me both during the first and the second that it would be interesting to discuss the format of this debate at a later stage. I'll be up early with kids tomorrow, so I'll leave it now! So a short explanation of vote. Both proposal No. 9 and proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party, has a lot of meaning in itself. However, we are going to vote against putting forward our own plan for the fight against poverty in Norway now, firstly because I believe that there is a whole different scope and complexity in the measures to combat poverty than just to put forward a plan. The same applies to proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox The proposal makes a lot of sense, but I also believe that the tools to which it refers are more and more different than just ‘fastest to make sure’. It is also relevant for many more areas than health and social services. But this is both of the themes that we want to work on, with the Christian People's Party and everyone else who wants to contribute, and which the government will also have to pay attention to further. The same is true in so far as proposal No. 1, from the left, which is a very important theme that we're going to have to come back to. But we're going to vote against all the proposals from the opposition party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4326	To reflect, since we have used part of the debate today to discuss Greece, and how close Greece's and Norway's solutions are: sometimes you should listen a little to the politicians who have been involved in taking responsibility in Greece. One of them, the former socialist finance minister from the beginning of the last decade, has recently even reflected on this and said that one of Greece's problems was that he too little carried out privatisation in his period to contribute to a better balance between public and private. He might be closer to it. I don’t think it’s necessarily as topical as a contribution to Norway, but a little respect and a little humility for what is debate in other countries – that it’s not that easy to pass it on. I have addressed the question and discussion about an independent review of the situation in PST earlier today. The situation in PST has been a topic that we've had to discuss several times in the last year, regardless of July 22. But it is a fact that the Storting does not have knowledge of the real capacity and therefore, in my opinion, cannot exercise its control authority properly or take budgetary decisions on a sound enough basis. There has also been a discussion in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence today on the basis of an initiative by the Right. Our desire for an independent sample that reviews this situation and informs the Storting about it is firm. But I think it's going to happen regardless of the work of the 22nd July Commission and the actual situation around the terrorist attack on Norway at that time. We wrote in response to the fact that we also addressed this matter a letter that the Minister of Justice has today promised to give a formal response to the right and the Stortinget, about such a selection and the review of it, and because we are in a positive dialogue around it, I do not feel the need to vote in favour of proposal No. 4, rather, encourage us to make changes to the text so that it is more consistent with what the Right has meant. So we think there's a need for an independent sample, but it's not going to go the same way as the July 22 Commission, because it's going to be fully aware of the decisions that PST has made around July 22nd. That is why I assume that what I experienced has been the Minister of Justice's detailed response to the opposition's wishes in this matter, and that is also what is leading the government party's position on this. That is why we will not vote in favour of it, but we will therefore point out that this proposal can come up again if we do not reach an agreement in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4333	Now it is so late in the night that as a peppermeal I would like to be in the situation of Hans Olav Syversen: to pinch away freer a little late in the evening. [[Laughter]] But I haven't heard anyone, so then it just gets going. This probably means that the results of the local elections have not said well enough about the assembly, so you just have to wait two years. But I would like to take the opportunity to make an explanation of vote. Left wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. We are not voting in favour of proposal No. 4, and we're behind Solberg's explanation of why Right doesn't do that either, as a basis for not voting for it. Then we vote in favour of the proposal No. 9, 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4340	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4348	Then the President believes that he has registered that we are ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4356	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 3-8, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9-11, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Before we start voting, the president will draw attention to one thing: our new voting system makes it possible to put voting in Stortinget online. Now in the harvest session we are within a probationary period, and from the New Year it must be available to anyone who wishes to check how each representative has voted. The voting we carry out in the harvest will be part of what becomes publicly available information from next year. There may therefore be reason to be extra tightened when we press the button, so that in the future we will not explain dissatisfaction with the voters that yes, I voted like that, but actually I just pressed the wrong button. There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case concerning the amendment of foreign law so that children’s rights in expulsion cases are respected in line with decisions of the European Court of Human Rights’. The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4391	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a case for phase-in of five-year primary school teacher training.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4407	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 to 6 and proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an infrastructure fund of 500 billion. krones. The annual return is used to finance infrastructure investments.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy of Great Britain is asked to set up an independent committee to examine and assess the efforts of the Police Security Service before, during and after the attack on Norway 22.7.2011.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in connection with the large oil discovery of Avaldsnes to present a case on how, among other things, the additional revenues of the State can be used to improve Norwegian infrastructure and to speed up the improvement of the maintenance run in society.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close all terminations of functions in Norwegian hospitals leading to reduced capacity until a significant reduction in waiting times and patient queues has been achieved.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to make Norway a leading country in energy research and market competence. The case shall address industrial research and technology testing, stimulate academic work to make the Norwegian university environment attractive to Norwegian and foreign students and researchers, develop professional environments for analysis and business assessments of current and future energy needs and access, etc.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4445	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the negative impact of the property tax on Norwegian ownership, Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs and to file a case for the Stortinge in the context of the revised budget in 2012.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4462	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9 and 11, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that ideal actors providing health and social services have a long-term and good framework.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to examine different models in order to eliminate the taxes on wealth on working capital.» The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4486	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a poverty reduction plan in Norway.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-04.ana.ud1228e4503	The President will propose that the address of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 156th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
