ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e45	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Sverre Myrli and Tore Nordtun, there are applications for leave from 27 May to 30 May, all to attend the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Varna, Bulgaria. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For the Province of Rogaland: Laila Thorsen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e83	Anita Orlund, Kari Storstrand and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat. The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e88	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Abid Q. Raja and myself, I am delighted to propose a comprehensive tendering strategy there, but among other things. shall achieve more innovation and supplier development and strengthen consumer interests by introducing an independent competition topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e93	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e96	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and I signed, I am delighted to make suggestions to open trials with oral grades in the seventh grade at the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e101	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e115	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e124	Let me first start with a good news. The number from the Coordinate Recording shows that this year it is 35 pst. several first choice applicants for maritime higher education compared to last year. It is very gratifying that more and more young people look forward to a career in the maritime sector. Ensuring good access to skilled labour is crucial for us to continue to be a maritime power. Norway has long and proud traditions of shipping, shipbuilding, equipment production and other maritime service provision. In a world that is becoming more and more globalised, we need to work actively to ensure that competitiveness is renewed through conversion, innovation and innovation across the maritime sector. We should never compete on low wages or the weight of job protection. Norway, on the other hand, must be a world leader in knowledge, technology and smart solutions. In this way, we can take the maritime industry adventure into the future. This government has great ambitions for the knowledge nation, even when it comes to the maritime challenges. The effort has produced good results so far: Recruitment to maritime challenges is in full swing. Through the Støn kurs strategy, the government has seen more than 115 million since 2007. to strengthen maritime education. The revised national budget adds 18.5 million. kr in fresh funds for MARKOM 2020, so that the four higher challenge institutions offering maritime challenge can cooperate to deliver this competence in a world-class way. The SAK project, which is intended to contribute to better cooperation, division of labour and concentration, involves a number of ‘gilts’ to stimulate challenge institutions to follow up the recommendations of the working group led by Petter Aasen. I notice that the opposition is eager for a separate big message about maritime challenge. I am myself more busy with the concrete results we are continuously delivering to the industry. The comments from the opposition may also indicate a desire for Size to control the structure of the maritime challenges. I would therefore like to remind you of the university and university spheres, which clearly point out that the institutions themselves decide what challenge they want to offer. The counties own and carry out further training. The administrative reform means that the county councils have also been given strategic responsibility for the trade unions. In other words, the size does not allow us to place any guidance on structure or content here. However, maritime challenge providers should note the objections of parts of the industry to the fact that the supply is too fragmented and the professional environment too small. Norway is a small country, and it is crucial that the environment of competence is robust and holistic. The sector may therefore itself consider whether aggregation, better division of labour or larger units are necessary to meet the needs of the future. The goal should be a world-class, seamless maritime challenge, starting with further training and continuing through the academic, academic and university spheres and resulting in lifelong learning. A separate POP message is not required to do this. Rather, let us discuss the means of action and offensive measures. The Labour Party is confident that the maritime challenges will work closely with the business community and with each other. We will help to implement measures that strengthen quality and ensure better work sharing and specialisation. In this way, the sector can define its own challenges and opportunities. I have great faith that we will end up with this strategy. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and the proposers for putting an important issue on the agenda of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e163	We have challenges with both the voting system and the ability of representatives to register electronically. We're going to have to use the old method -- we're going to do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e166	I could have talked well and for a long time about the maritime sector's importance in Norway. The case spokesperson was also involved. I'm going to let it lie down today and focus on what this case is about, that's the maritime education course. It is such that the Aasen Committee has presented a report that is quite clear on how to improve maritime education in total. Then it's about having more thoughts in your head at once. Because we have many ways of training skills to enter maritime business, within today's education system. The important thing is that when a government has created a bad course, for which the government should be honored, it does not help if one does not actually follow it up through concrete actions. Therefore, it is necessary to have a separate big message, as the Right has taken the initiative in this proposal for a representative, and to which the Progress Party is more than willing to join. Why is that? The file manager insists that the search engine count is higher than ever before - an increase of 35 pst. and it's affordable – but as long as the funding system doesn't actually take the height of these going into school, which requires enormous competence, which requires huge technology, and is therefore also extremely expensive, it won't help with more applicants if one actually doesn't have the ability to finance the education lines. That's why the professional balls are important, for 80 pst. of those who will work tomorrow in the business world, come through the college course. Then everyone could say as the case spokesman has done: the story cannot decide it, we have to encourage the states to do it. But there will be no more seafarers in business in the future if we do not take this situation seriously. Therefore, it is decisive that the Storting actually gives a clear signal that we must have a sensible structure that means that we not only have maritime education but that means that the maritime education actually has the necessary means at our disposal to meet tomorrow's technological challenges, so that students are aware of the same technological equipment they encounter when they go back to business. That's why you have to do something about the college structure, and that's why Storting has to have a qualified opinion of this. Everything else is disclaimer. So you might want to say that this is a bet on the marbles. Yeah, that's right. On the last 20 pst. Make the government a lift now. Nevertheless, it is decisive that we can strengthen the competences of the higher spheres we already have, and that we must make them cooperate more closely with the academic spheres. Should a few be assigned to it, the policy must be confined to colleges and colleges to a greater extent than it is today. When one then boasts that one now gets a larger search engine number, and at the same time underfinances the professional balls based on search engine numbers two years back in time, when one transfers money to the state, then this is not related. This industry is one of the most important things we have in Norway. This industry requires a competence and technology that few other industries need, early in the training cycle. Therefore, these education needs to be strengthened. So the government has made a bad course. Let me do it first: it's not just the opposition that's so clear about what has to happen to those maritime educations. It's also a whole business. A whole business life sees the need for a new academic structure, and a whole business life sees the need to strengthen these education systems. But when you've created a bad course, it's affordable. I have the impression, on the same line as many in business, that they in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade are good at following up Støn kurs. Nevertheless, when you don't look at the funding models, which determine whether a thing is recruiting people into these educations, and giving them a lift of skills while they're inside that business needs, you can ask yourself if the commitment in the Ministry of Knowledge is the same. Therefore, it is decisive that we are clear here that one is required to work better even across departments in this matter. It may be natural when you have your own Minister of Coordination, that you can use that Council of State in such matters. I should have also said a lot about the y-way, which is absolutely crucial because we're able to bring in people who disappear into business early on, and give them a lift of competence later. There's no room for this. But I still want to address the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e181	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e184	Sometimes it's almost fun when technology fails. Then we are made aware of how dependent we are on it. The more strictly this matter is, the more technology-intensive we have than most people are aware of, and who are increasingly in need of skills development and the recruitment of highly skilled labour. Like the previous speaker, I too would like to say on behalf of the Right that there is something a little bit strange and takes over the government's policy when it comes to maritime education. The previous speakers pointed out that the industry itself had been very clear in its analysis and in its requirements for the education sector in the maritime industries, but that has also been the government itself. The government has given a very clear and good analysis, I think, of the maritime education offer in Stø kurs, which is the government's strategy for growth in the maritime industries. I'll quote the following sections: ‘There are few who choose a maritime educational and career path. Dissemination of educational services with little cooperation, lack of teaching skills and major challenges in relation to the flow of candidates indicates that neither the structure nor the quality of the services are good enough. The situation of maritime education and the expected need for future labour suggests that the focus must be on quality and cooperation between educational institutions. The Government will investigate how to improve the quality and future structure of maritime education with a view to increasing the number of students to choose and implement such training.’ It's a very clear analysis that comes out of the promise that the government will explore the future structure and quality. This has puzzled us when, in the meantime – from last year until today – we have dealt with the great message about the education line, where, in fact, maritime education, despite what I just quoted, was not mentioned with a single word. We took this up from the Right in comments to the same big message. We have later addressed this issue here in Stortinget in questions, in interpellations — even to several different state councils — and yet have been met with a somewhat unintelligible backward attitude, we might say. It might be tempting to say that the government has flagged this case, but it might be a bit too cheap a word game. So that's why this representative proposal from the Right, where we are asking for a big message. In our opinion, a big message will be a natural and effective consequence of the government's own work so far. The government has done a lot. Stylish courses have been followed, funds have been allocated, and SAC funds have been allocated for cooperation between educational institutions – and we also agree that this is important from the Right. However, in the case of the slightly larger grips, where, in fact, some people have to sit in the driver’s seat and take the heavy initiatives – the important initiatives – the government refuses to do so. So we're talking about an industry that employs approx. 100 000 annual works in Norway. It's an industry that's just now emerging at the great Nor-Shipping fair, and which undoubtedly has a great, great national significance. It is probably one of two industries that are considered to have a cluster large enough to be world leaders in the international context. So this is a high-tech industry, an industry with high recruitment and competence requirements. Only the recruitment needs have been strongly adjusted in recent years, and that means that even though there has been a lot of positive progress since the Stø kurst was written, the needs have also increased, perhaps even more so than the government has managed to do. So the question has to be about this industry and about this part of the education sector deserves its own big message. We're serious. We think it's nice that the government doesn't see it. It would be natural for the government to take the consequences of its own work and its own analyses and put such a message before the Storting, so that we could discuss together the relatively large steps that the industry deserves, and that we politicians here in the Storting must be willing to take on behalf of an important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e202	Norway is one of the world's leading maritime nations. We're one of the few countries in the world, if not the only one, that has such a complete maritime food cluster. Our task as authorities is to facilitate this development to continue, so that the industry can evolve so that Norway retains its unique position in the global landscape. Therefore, a proactive approach and a strong focus on maritime education are also needed to ensure that this development continues. MARUT was initiated by the Bondevik II government and an arena for cooperation between the maritime cluster and the authorities. As MARUT has also pointed out, we have different structural challenges. In particular, I would like to highlight the situation of the vocational schools. In recent years there has been a development in which the vocational school has become more accepted as a vocational higher education now than it has been in the past. For those students who opt for a maritime profession in secondary school, the vocational school is a natural career choice. That's good, and we'll back that up. It is important to harmonise the professional plans and regulations of the colleges and colleges, so that students can easily go from a specialised school and beyond to a maritime college. At the same time, there is also a balance, because it is important that the vocational education itself – getting a professional letter – is also a full-fledged education. It is also important that the teaching of maritime vocational schools extends beyond the minimum requirements for obtaining a certificate. The maritime industry is concerned about the decline that is taking place today after the counties assumed responsibility for the vocational schools. We believe that although the vocational schools are below the county councils, it must be the government that takes responsibility for an overall assessment of the structure, as the Marut working group has also proposed. In Norway, we want to provide students with the best maritime education in the world, and the maritime industry also depends on winning the competition for the young talents in the future. Today, despite the fact that we have seen an increase in recent years, the situation is that there are too few young people who choose a maritime educational and career path. We need to have increased recruitment for real science, maritime vocational education, maritime colleges and master's degree studies. Maritime Forum has had a very successful campaign in recent years, called ‘Not for All’, where the focus is not least on the exclusive and special by investing in a maritime industry. We need more of those campaigns. We need to look forward. We need to organise education provision according to the needs we see that industry needs in the future. As a former project manager in MARUT at an early stage, I have seen closely the value of an interaction between the industry itself, the shipping industry, industry, the research and competence environments and the authorities, that you can sit around the same table and discuss the overall challenges and point the course forward. Norway’s unique maritime position is linked to the fact that we have been better than many others to look into the future and choose the solutions that actually win in the future. There has gradually been an image of an international division of labour where activity requiring low labour costs has been developed in other countries, while skills and innovation based on technology and high levels of competence have taken place in, among others. Norway. It's also an image that's being developed. It's important to bring it with you. Today we see that, for example. in China, many times more engineers are trained every year than Norway has students at all. The countries that used to do simple work based on their low labour costs are now developing a competence that is gradually competing with the competence of the Norwegian maritime industry. It requires even more of us in the future. It requires an increased focus on Norwegian maritime competence. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for its own announcement of a stronger maritime education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e228	The government's vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation, and that we should deliver the most innovative and environmentally friendly solutions for the future. Of course, the level of ambition demands maritime education: it must be relevant, forward-looking, high-quality and must enable candidates to have knowledge meeting the needs of the maritime industry. The level of ambition also requires recruitment. Both the profession and education must be attractive and interesting, so that young people want to choose a career in the maritime industry. So on to the representatives' proposals: this refers to the report made by a working group set up by MARUT in 2009. The group was led by Vice-Chancellor Petter Aasen and would make recommendations on the national action and priorities needed to meet the challenges and meet the requirements for forward-looking maritime vocational training. The working group recommended that the number of specialised schools should be significantly reduced. Different types of training, recruitment, national framework plan, cooperation and division of labour, development of competences, infrastructure and increased attention to research-based education were among the proposals. In the draft representative, the government is asked to follow up the position of the Marut and the Aasen Committee. Many of the measures proposed by the working group are followed up in the general government policy on higher education, such as cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, and differentiated and profiled training provision. I have great faith that the best thing is whether the sector itself takes on professional responsibility and works towards good solutions to the challenges facing maritime education. At the same time, the Ministry has a clear role to play. Through dialogue, clear political signals and economic incentives, I put considerable pressure on the institutions to work precisely with cooperation, work sharing and professional concentration. The four higher education institutions providing maritime education – the Vestfold High School, the Stord/Haugesund High School, the Ålesund High School and the University of Tromsø – are now working closely together in MARKOM2020. This is a maritime competence development project in which the overall objective is to raise education to a higher and more specialised level and to provide world-class education. The aim of the MARKOM2020 project is to follow up the MARUT report. This year, the Ministry of Finance supports the MARKOM2020 project with 13.6 million. NOK 4,9 million. will focus on measures to enhance the competence of teachers in maritime education at the vocational school level and on measures to increase the exchange of experience and cooperation between vocational schools and with colleges. In the last four years, the government's strategy for environmentally friendly growth in the maritime industries, Støn kurs, has been set by approx. 115 million. kr to strengthen maritime education — both at the post-secondary level and in the right-hand education. The funds include: training measures for teachers, the adaptation of Bachelor and Master degrees, the organisation of increased use of Professor II and Lecturer II positions, scholarship schemes for recruiting foreign students and for increased exchange of experience and cooperation. Most of the funds have been used for the promotion of professional and higher education. Twenty-five million. the provision of new equipment and the upgrading of infrastructure by maritime training institutions. So here it's wagered, as several of the speakers have also been. According to the proposers, maritime training should be more centralised than at present. Under the law of higher education and higher education, higher education institutions themselves decide which education they want to provide. So I can't control these processes, but I see with pleasure that the four university and university institutions are now working closely together. The MARUT report also recommends that there should be four higher regional education centres, and I do not see the basis for concentrating maritime higher education in fewer institutions than today. In the case of specialised schools and secondary education, these are subject to the county council. The government cannot control the structure or the resource effort in this area. However, I have great faith that professional cooperation, division of labour and concentration will have positive effects in the field of vocational education, and I expect the vocational schools in dialogue with the working life they serve to look at which structures are most suitable for providing quality vocational education. I am also aware that the higher education institutions are working on developing cooperation with the vocational schools. The proposers point out that the maritime professional training courses do not have a national framework plan or a national council that creates a common arena for professional discussion, cooperation and professional development. It is an objective in MARKOM2020 that a national qualification framework for higher maritime education, approved in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs, will be in place by 2015. This shall require professional requirements that go beyond the certification requirements of maritime organisations, the so-called STCW Convention, in order to give our candidates the best possible competence. In short, the government has, through Stø kurs, had a lot of attention on maritime education and action in many of the areas proposed by the proposers, and maritime education is at the heart of good development. I therefore believe that there is no need for a notification, as the representatives suggest, but that maritime education is best served by the government supporting the good processes that have been set in motion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e254	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e257	The fact that the Council of State is meeting with opposition reprisals, I believe that the Council of State can live with it. But can the state councils equally live on the fact that the state is dissatisfied and the business community is dissatisfied with government policy, especially linked to the trade unions? That's what's interesting. The Council of State would like to boast of the efforts made, but when it does not want to provide full funding for the vocational schools, so that they are able to invest in technological equipment, and will not take responsibility for the structure, as both the Council of State and the President of the case are here, how can industry and the counties be pleased? So my question is, is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that business is dissatisfied with the fact that a not willing to act in this area, like the opposition is doing through this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e267	It is possible that some parts of the business community may express such dissatisfaction as the representative here explains, but my main impression is that the industry is very satisfied with the government's efforts in terms of both poor courses and maritime education. We have stood here – this representative and I – and discussed the subject schools, and I have to say that I am surprised that from the progress party team in More and Romesdal you are so dissatisfied with the possibilities of your county municipality – which you actually have – to be in charge of the vocational schools. This is a decision Stortinget has taken. Here we invite to a very special and good cooperation between the vocational education of the individual state and higher education institutions, which are the four we have mentioned especially in this matter. This should all facilitate good interaction between working life, vocational schools and colleges in order to ensure the best possible maritime education in the future. We've got the recruiter. The funding system is there – there we disagree. It is fully funded, as the government has proposed and the Stortinge has joined and adopted, so here we have a good basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e274	In the case of technical school funding, which has also been raised in previous questions by the Right, there are significant challenges. I think the council itself is very aware of that. But I will go back to that government itself promised in the sty course: ‘The government will investigate how to improve the quality and future structure of maritime education with a view to increasing the number of students to choose and implement such education.’ This structural change is also something that the Aasen Committee has been concerned about and recommended. So my questions to the Council of State are: Has the government done this investigation of future quality and structure of maritime education? And what shows in the case of that investigation, if the government has carried this out, as it promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e288	The government put down the Aasen Committee, which has gone through the needs of this industry for education and maritime education. This is the selection's setting, for example: is the basis for the work that we are doing now, and which I have explained in my speech, and which is certainly also the basis for the draft representative in this debate. As I said in my post, in parallel with this investigation by the Aasen Committee, the government has been focusing on a process that we call SAK, i.e. collaboration, division of labour and professional concentration, which is entirely in line with the needs that are being explained also in terms of maritime education. So here we see, happily, that four higher education institutions cooperate on this, and that it itself provides motivation for cooperation both with colleges and with business. So that's how many of the desires and requirements for this education are met. We are also providing financial resources for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e295	When, in February of this year, I put maritime education on the agenda through an interpellation with the Minister of Industry, I have to say that I was surprised at the Minister of Industry's focus. He looked almost like a question mark during the entire interpellation debate, and he did not know why he was in the hall. There was a proposal from me and some colleagues in the Right to do something about maritime education. So that's how maritime education actually needs a national agenda and a national focus, and it doesn't want the government. Then it becomes a little strange that Tora Aasland comes to the main hall without coordinating it with the Minister of Knowledge or with the Minister of Industry. The vacuum that this government has in terms of maritime education shows the whole point that a maritime education survey is in place. When the Council of State talks about maritime education in relation to colleges, she says that they should not be centralised, but the focus of the proposal is actually in the colleges and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e304	We need maritime education at both post-secondary and post-secondary level. I am very pleased with the cooperation that has been started between the universities and the University of Tromsø and also the colleges. I have been confirmed by these colleges that they have cooperated with the colleges as an important part of the whole. So I actually think I know more about the government's contacts between the state councils than the representative Kambe knows. At least I know that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, the Minister of Knowledge and I have good contact with these matters. There were representatives from both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Knowledge in Westfold a little while ago when we presented our common thoughts and visions about this education and its future. So here there's no need for an intermediary with other state councils, like other representatives, here we have good contact. Both from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and from the Ministry of Knowledge want to continue the good processes that are in progress, both the follow-up to the Support Course and the efforts we are now making at maritime education in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e311	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e316	We are now dealing with a matter of education in the maritime sector. It is the second largest industry in Norway, and it is of great importance to more or less all parts of the country. In Haugaland and Sunnhordland, the maritime sector stands for 35 p.m. of the compensation of employees. This says a lot about what a good education service means. I have to say that I have problems understanding the government's lack of willingness to conduct policies in this area. Here, therefore, the government through various departments has helped to support the preparation of the MARUT report. Once this has been completed and the recommendations on the national measures that need to be taken to meet the challenges are presented, the government toolbox is empty. And the responsibility for finding good solutions is left to the sector itself and to the ministry. This concerns the country's second largest industry, and I have to say that the government does not want to have a hand on the steering wheel in order to maintain the quality of maritime education, even if the industry asks for it. Nor does this stand in the sense that Norway aims to be a world-leading maritime nation. When the government parties say that the ministry in general needs to facilitate and stimulate working on the challenges in the sector, I wonder which department they are looking for. The challenges facing the industry are precisely that they have more professional committees and departments to deal with. This proposal for a representative shows that there is also great political uncertainty about who is dealing with what is happening in maritime education. This case was recently promoted to the Minister of Industry, who indicated that the case had been sent to the wrong address; he would have nothing to do with the matter. The need to cooperate across different political disciplines and at departmental level is fully understandable. It is positive that it has been set of 115 million government dollars to strengthen the maritime sector in the last five years. In comparison, the industry itself has paid 390 million since 2004. through the Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation for various purposes and measures to strengthen industry and Norwegian maritime competence. It shows that the industry contributes large amounts to ensuring recruitment and competence. In connection with the Maritime Forum event Nor-Shipping Campus earlier this week, the following questions were asked: Can Norway afford not to bet on the vocational schools? For the Progress Party, the answer is no. We therefore support the proposal in the matter. The Progress Party believes that the industry must be free to invest in establishment, but the State must invest in training in Norway's second largest industry in cooperation with the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e333	Norwegian maritime professional training and Norwegian sea officers have a very good reputation and have had it for a very long time. The need for maritime competence in Norway is increasing. The industry needs thousands of employees in the future, precisely because shipping will increase in the pact of globalisation, world trade and population growth, and also a goal from this house and this hall for a transition from road to sea in terms of transport. I think both this debate and the interpellation debate in which I challenged Giske reveals one thing: the government is simply taken out on the bed when it comes to the matter of maritime education. You haven't had focus at all. And then the spinal cord reflex happens the red-green government unfortunately has in all things in this room, that you tune it down on principle. It's the smallness of the worst sort when in the kind of things that this is going to affect those who are going to be officers on our Norwegian ships in the future. That's very regrettable. In Norway today – and this is what the Council of State has to note, not that there are four colleges, because that was actually not the point of the proposal – there are 21 secondary schools offering maritime education, there are 15 maritime colleges, and then there are the four universities in Tønsberg, Haugesund, Ålesund and Tromsø. Today’s system will in the future offer too poor, simply because the student mass in each school is too small, the equipment is too old, and the new equipment that needs to be in place becomes too expensive. All statistics also show that the labour force there either chooses to work on board the boats, in the shipping companies, in the coastal works, in the Maritime Directorate or in the Norwegian Veritas. There are better paid jobs than teaching maritime personnel for the future. Therefore, it is very disappointing to read the setting, because the government does not understand and does not seem to want to want to do anything with the challenge that is there – neither from the Ministry of Knowledge, from the Ministry of Industry or from the Council of State responsible for higher education – and it shows that this is clearly a fragmented responsibility. What happens when responsibility is fragmented is that there will be no political regime, no political governance. An overall nutrition, the Maritime Forum, the Shipping Association, the Maritime Training Office, the Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation, who it might be at the hearing, said that this proposal should be adopted. And then it's strange that the government is as paralysed in this case as they are unfortunately here. The cooperation and division of labour between institutions providing higher maritime education and between vocational schools and higher education institutions is poorly developed, but there is a clear improvement. It's not where the challenge lies, but at the level below, and it's the Big Bang that has to deal with. To the right, increased national attention is needed to ensure enhanced maritime education in Norway. That is why we are today promoting this proposal for a strengthened Norwegian maritime education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e346	First of all, I would like to say that I am very disappointed that the Council of State adopts such a passive attitude as she does in this matter. It may seem that what you're most afraid of is that this room will get a case from the government, so that we can have a wide debate on maritime education. This week, the world’s biggest success in shipping and shipping has happened – at least this year. It's happened at Lillestrøm and in Oslo this past week. I myself have been attending several of these seminars, and have been around and met the industry every day. It may seem that the world has almost gone past the government, because it is clear that if you don't follow up on the number of colleges, and if you don't look at the organisation of education at high school, you can't get along with the developments in the maritime sector. If you look at the technical equipment that exists and that you're going to operate on the boats, whether it's cranes, winches, what's going on in the wheelhouse, in the engine room, etc., then it's high competence in computer technology. State Council Giske has actually done a lot of good for the industry. He has followed up in a number of different areas. But there's still some, and it's especially related to education. The growth we're going to experience within the sector if we do things right, can be formidable. But we can also put ourselves in a position where the world is almost traveling from us. I will use a few examples: the evolution in the number of ships, especially in the offshore sector, is relatively constant in our own marine areas, in the North Sea. The large growth takes place outside Brazil, through the expansions of Petrobras there, outside Australia, Nigeria and other places in the world. We must then be able to offer the high level of competence that is needed in the future. If one of the last few days you've been to campus, which has been down here in town hall, you've seen that the simulators and what you use in education cost a lot of money. It is not possible that each specialised school has these things in place to provide the best training within this. Therefore, it makes sense for us to get a big message about the maritime education, so that you get things in place – show that there is a connection between the government's plan Stuck course, what the industry needs, and not least the skills that the people who are going to work in the industry need – to meet the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e363	This debate has got a temperature that actually surprises me a little. Once again, we get a target-medium-debate, where the opposition asks for notification – or national level, or strategy – while in the position it is important to look at everything that is already going on, in this case not least in the sector itself, and not least by establishing good cooperation relations between those who provide such training and those who need such training – in this case business. It is interesting when Jon Georg Dale of the Progress Party says something like we need concrete action, so we need a big message. What's a big message, really? A flash message is not least a good situational description. In my opinion, we have good situational descriptions. We know what the state is out there in terms of the need for such education and what kind of education is going on. A call for proposals shall contribute to national focus. I think it's so absolute that we have a national focus. We have a MARUT report, we have the Aasen committee, we have a Stylish course. There is an absolute national focus in this area. The third one, a big message usually comes up with, is a good list of measures. I can't help but understand that we definitely have actions going on here. Then we can discuss whether they are strong enough, whether they are good enough, whether they are dynamic enough. But for all intents and purposes, there is already a lot going on today. So to me, this is funny. I have said many times before that I think it is very strange that the opposition should have a big message in place, rather than that we could gather even more about improving the measures and active actions already in place in this sector, in order to achieve the desired growth and development of maritime education in Norway. What also surprises me is that the Right Party and the Advance Party then until those degrees show distrust of the county councils in terms of that type of education. They will obviously want a national action from above, on the basis of a notion that the county authorities, in cooperation with the industry, do not believe that they will be able to develop that type of training. Is this something the Right Party and the Advance Party want to do with all vocational education, or is it just this training to be treated in this way? It is not only post-secondary education Right and the Progress Party will take on board, but also higher education and the structure there. It surprises me that the two parties then went in until those degrees to introduce a paradigm shift into Norwegian education, where the state will go in and override what the county councils are doing. Not least the kind of education I think is served by the county council, the colleges and the industry seas that are allowed to continue to develop the good work that is already in progress, instead of almost stopping the whole process by launching a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e374	The representative Aksel Hagen is surprised at the commitment in this matter. I'm probably most surprised that Hagen is surprised, because it shouldn't surprise anyone that we're busy with quality in education, and that we believe that the Storting should mean, and have a duty to believe, something about quality in education, and should be involved, and have a duty to participate, and to run the system so that we can offer the education we need. The Council of State itself referred to our ambition to be world leaders in the fields we are talking about here when it comes to education. But when we get to hear how it's going to be done, then one just has to leave it to the actors. It is presented here – both from the Council of State and others – as if we cannot do anything, because it is the county that has the executive responsibility in everyday life – or the higher education institutions. All the time, the Council of State is running and instructing, having letters of assignment, dialogue, telling you that this doesn't mean you need to use ink to apply for one time – I've just been to a university – because you'll never get money to that place, and you can give it to other places. This drives the government council all the time, but when the opposition parties in the staging room ask for an intervention, it is completely impossible to intervene. It's pathetic. If we have a government council that can't intervene with county councils or higher education institutions, I don't know what the state council is going to pass the time with, because it's an obligation to do just that. The second thing I'm responding to in the debate is that it's just about the number – yes, now it's more recruitment. This is a major communication on the quality of maritime education. The quality we get when it's related from high school, cooperation with colleges and up to higher education, when they have equipment that can teach people the future we're going to enter. The Church, Education and Research Committee has just been on a two-day visit to Bergen and has seen amazing things being done in terms of maritime research, maritime development. This all the time requires people who are out in the maritime environment and who can handle that future. Then we have to make sure that there are educational institutions around the country at all levels that can deliver people to it. This is not about the number. It's great what the government has done, and what has given us results in increasing the number, but this is about quality. This is about how one together with the industry creates the good environments of competence, where the equipment is in place, where the competent teachers are in place, and where the competent environments evolve together. So it's the responsibility of the government and the Storting, and we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e386	The funny thing about listening to the representatives from SV, including the Council of State, talking today, is to right that the industry is working on this. I've never heard of representatives from SV being so terrified of involving political authority, as the Stortinget actually is, as in this case, where they left everything to business without any political involvement. Let that be their problem. That one then has a slightly passive hold, it's not unexpected either. It's SV that in its time would phase out the entire Norwegian sea fishing fleet, and that's how it could be natural that one doesn't need the same number of people at sea in the future. But this matter is seriously important for Norwegian seafarers. That's why it's important that we don't now until we like. have received a separate big message about this, go in and make changes to the certification system, so that one does not get the same certification system in the disciplines that one has today. It is absolutely crucial that the Storing has broad political processes before making such assessments. That possibility takes the government party from Stortinget today. They take advantage of the fact that we have a qualified perception of whether we should allow all the certification schemes both in the colleges and in the higher education institutions. It's extremely disappointing. In itself, there is a big enough problem that a separate big message is needed. As the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik was in the Chamber, it has this week our Nor-Shipping fair. I was there trying to run a simulator where a master a boat. Such a simulator costs a million dollars. It is entirely decisive for the future future of maritime education. But the Council of State will have no qualified opinion as to whether there are too many or too few colleges. It leaves us to decide, despite the fact that one in no way finances the technological equipment that is absolutely necessary to improve the quality of education. This is disclaimer. Then I have to go back to the case manager: the search warrants go up. Yes, they do. And it's extremely positive, it all seems. However, the situation is that one does not finance more places of study, because one sticks to the number of applicants two years back in time. Then it's very good with more seekers, but there won't be any more of them left out for that reason. Things are hanging together. Unfortunately, the government takes away from us the possibility of actually thinking in the long term. What I wanted to use this opportunity to do was also to try to tilt the right over to make sure that there was a proper net pay scheme that made those we actually figured out through the system get space in the business afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e399	Let there be no doubt: everyone in this room has ambitions for the maritime industry, both industrial policy and educational. So that debate actually starts to calm down a little bit. This is more about how this should be organised and structured. There are some people who claim that this is so fragmented. Yes, it is fragmented, simply because we have municipal autonomy in Norway. We have division of labour in a municipal sector divided into either primary or county municipalities. It is then that the primary school is governed by the municipalities, the vocational schools and the secondary schools are governed by the county municipalities, and then the state is responsible for higher education. It's strange that you have to say this from this pulpit – I have to admit that. Recently, I was at the hearing in the KS, called up together with two other committee leaders who are responsible for much of the municipal sector. Monica Mæland, who is the town councillor in Bergen, led this hearing, and we were put to the wall because we're getting too involved in what they're doing. Keep your fingers off the barrel, was clearly notified from the entire municipal sector. Let's control what we have to control. So here we have an opposition, led by the Progress Party and the Right, that wants to control this. In particular, it's funny that it comes from the Western representatives, who are constantly pointing to a so-called Western uprising, where they are angry and frustrated that too much is to be controlled from Oslo. Yes, what are you proposing in this room today? Well, you want to control what kind of education you're going to have in high school, how your colleges are going to be. I would like to take into account the debate that we are now seeing – or at least I am calling for – proposals that go on something more than what kind of paper politicians send between themselves, that is. staging messages, or not. Why is it not suggested that the vocational schools should become state-owned? Why is it not suggested that high schooling, in the case of a very special education system, namely only maritime industries, be transferred as a state responsibility? That's how you really argue. I must say, I think it's pretty funny. Had these proposals been on the table, there would have been consistency between the posts and what is in the setting, because in the setting we quite agree on what the problems are. We agree that there is a need for cleaning up when it's too fragmented, and it's too poor quality. I think we should send the ball right over to those who are responsible for this, including the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, who have power in the West. Let's tell our party traps that they are taking on this and clearing up where they are responsible, and ask them to read the setting to be inspired, so that they do the job that we are asking for, without delay, and without it being dependent on a down-to-earth message, which is a message between government and big business. Let municipal self-government also grasp this, and do not take away from the elected power out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e412	I know the formerly mentioned mayor of Bergen, Monica Mæland, very well, as my former boss. I must say with all due respect for Monica Meland that it is quite pointless to drag her into this debate. It is about the maritime education offer and, above all, the focus of the right-wing and opposition parties on the higher education institutions and the vocational school offer in Norway. To pick up the thread from Marianne Aasen's post: It's Right's opinion that the state should retain responsibility for the funding of the vocational school offer and perhaps also play a stronger role in relation to structural changes where there is a clear need. Because if the state does not, who should be able to do it when you see an offer together, and look at structural changes, as the investigations have recommended. In my reply with the Council of State it became clear that it was the Aasen Committee report that was the investigation of structures and the need for structural changes that the government promised to implement. That's a good answer. But as for the follow-up to the perfectly clear recommendation and order from the Aasen Committee, it remains to be seen what the government intends to do. I have to admit that I still do not understand what was going to be wrong with a big message. Axle Hagen gave a very clear description of what such a big message could be: a good situation description, a national focus and a good list of actions you wanted to implement – i.e. to see a larger sector as a whole. To use an English expression, it must be a piece of cake to produce such a big message. If the government and government parties here in Stortingen are right to do so much good, and do so much, it had to be easy to make such a big message, which would really only be a show-off and show-off for the government. We'd be satisfied with that, because it would give us an opportunity to discuss exactly the things we've addressed in our representative publishing house. As you can see, the opposition's proposal in this case is not to do anything about the technical school offer and the funding and responsibility there, but simply to get a big message. It's a loophole for the government, and I don't understand the government's not arresting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e425	It is of course touching to hear the opposition's prayer to the government to make a big message. Here came the recipe; we could just make a clean list, and it was okay. I think this is a very strange discussion, because what you're asking for is that the government makes a big message about things that are actually going on in a very good way. I have explained – and representatives of the government parties have also done so – what is going on, from, for example, what is happening. the recommendations made by the Aasen Committee. First of all, we're following up Stylish course. I have actually been in close contact with the business community, for example. in More and Romesdal – I have tried a simulator and talked to people in business. They are very satisfied with the investment in Støn kurs. It's very exciting to see, for example. in Ålesund, that there is also a willingness to have good cooperation between colleges and colleges, including on expensive and expensive equipment. This with the concentration of education, differentiated educational courses, recruitment – as we know is good, and as far as best channelling is concerned – is the processes we are doing well in the government. I fully agree with those who have said something about training to good quality. Here it's important that we keep quality, and it should preferably be a little bit better than the quality we see in education in other countries, because we're going to train the best seafarers. We fully agree on that. That we need cooperation, division of labour and development of competences, and that research-based education is also necessary, is a matter of course for me. I am therefore very pleased that, in the preparations for the next EU research programmes, we have had an important area for Norway, which is about maritime, and which gives us room to explore even more in the maritime and maritime sphere, which will be a good thing for the education we have in this area, whether it is in technical or higher education. Some of the samples have been included in their proposals, I am not necessarily so positive to, for example. the establishment of a separate framework plan. I think it can delay the work that is going on to get a good content in these educations. It can also make the situation a little bit more flexible than you want. I believe in a good flexibility between the colleges and the university that has started a good cooperation, which follows up the Stø kurst and the Aasen selection on important points. I'm going to stimulate it, of course, without going to rule or override it, because this is their own responsibility. I am convinced that they continue their good cooperation with the colleges and draw them with them, so that we get a comprehensive education, with many different phases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e438	I think it is a good thing that the debate is drawn to, because it shows that this debate is desirable on the part of the Stortinge. The Council of State thinks that it is ‘moving’ — that she actually manages to say from the Chair of the Great Britain — that the opposition is interested in this subject. I think the way the Council of State has responded to this proposal for a representative is rather sad. I also do not think what she has said from Stortinget’s pulpit, testifying that she has put herself well into the matter. She simply performed a reading of the official records. What's been a problem for me is that when there's no national focus on this from the Storting team, it's not taken out of the air. It's taken out of the industry itself. I quote from a working group set up by Maritime Development, MARUT: ‘The Committee recommends concentration of educational provision, differentiated training courses, recruitment, a national framework plan, cooperation and division of labour, development of competences, investment in infrastructure and increased research and development activities.’ That's what we could imagine getting a discussion about -- a national focus on -- in Stortinget. We could then have a discussion about how to ensure that county councils are given an incentive to centralise vocational schools, if you do not want the state to take over the funding of them as well. Aksel Hagen of SV was surprised at the debate. The opposition – a total opposition – is not. I think it might have something to do with where you come from. I think maybe also an illustration that Raymond Johansen came up with, where he says the Workers' Party is going to take over the West, testifying about this. Few in the West have a desire to be taken over by red-green politicians, whether in government or as rapporteurs. I think this debate also bears witness to that a little bit. There is a completely different understanding among opposition politicians of these kinds of issues than there are in two Swedish government councils in the Ministry of Knowledge, which perhaps historically have not been particularly interested in maritime activities, shipping, shipping or seafarers. That's the other parties, for example. The Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which have been interested in. The fact that Marianne Aasen, the chairman of the committee, takes the floor on a matter of maritime education without talking about maritime education, most of it says. She lectures to the Storting about the distribution of power, which is quite obvious. She believes that if we had not suggested a big message, but had had specific suggestions, yes, then it would have been good! I think Stortinget knows that every single time we're concrete about anything, it's said in the next sentence, of course, that it should be put into a whole context. It tries the Storting to do, but the government doesn't have the power to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e459	I have to comment on some of the things that have been said here now, because it becomes quite strange. Marianne Aasen said it was strange that we got involved in this, because we have e.g. a primary school that governs itself. Yeah, who's the one who has the law that there's gonna be homework? Yes, it's the Storting. Is that the primary school itself? Or what kind of food they're going to be served? Or what about extra hours? That's exactly what we're doing in this big thing, we're putting leadership in primary school to make it the best possible -- just as we're now saying that we want a basis to see if we're going to do something like that in terms of maritime education. Then she asks for suggestions about the college, about state funding, or state acquisition. Yes, those who have not brought that have at least not followed much with them. We can't promote it more times in this session, so we can't propose it now. But we can suggest it again the next session. Then we're going to hope that we get a new debate on that. Both Hagen and Aasen are asking why we're going to have a big message from the state council now. Why do we need a big message about what we agree on? Yes, this hour has shown that we do not agree at all! It's a completely different sense of reality. The feedback we get from the maritime sector, on many levels, and from the education sector on many levels, that's what you're saying here. Why in the world are we going to have two interpellation debates here in the Chamber on Monday on the cooperation of the vocational school with the financing of private and vocational schools if it works so well? It is not on the basis that everything is so great that we have had all the debates on vocational education funding? When we go around talking to higher education institutions – and the government still boasts about the SAK funds, which are great in themselves – they say, "Well, that's great, but what are we going to use it for? What are the leaders? We want to work with cooperation, we want to work with these things, but we need to have some overall leadership. That's what they say around the institutions. They may not dare to tell the Council of State, but at least they will tell us. There is not a common agreement in this hall and among the parties that have had the word here today, about how that reality is. We want that through a big message. Nor do I understand, like my colleague Warloe, what should be so dangerous about getting a big message. Yeah, if it's so great, we'll get it on the table. If there's something we can do to push it forward, we'll get it on the table. And I actually expected the red-green parties here in the hall to be there and to order from the Stortinget, so the government delivered it. Otherwise, I also expected the Council of State to want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e475	This debate seems to me to have been more about how we are going to organise, and who is going to do what. That's what's a little strange about the debate, and that was my main point. For me, it doesn't seem like the opposition listened to, for example. when the case rapporteur had his introduction, and it seems that they have not read the comments that we have, where we meet the description in many ways. And those who were present at the committee hearing know that we all took over what they heard, said, and that we've adjusted to the recordings that came, and that's about the substance of the matter. What I think The Right Party and the Advance Party skip elegantly is that this is about who's going to do what. Of course we run primary school, there's no doubt about it, but we don't decide which schools to run with what – and that's what you're really asking for. Well, you want a different structure in your colleges. Yes, exactly! We do not decide here in this Chamber which private vocational schools are to be established or not. We do not decide which schools the county should have or do not have, which lines they should have in the various secondary schools. And this includes, among other things: This is what the industry has requested – they will have better quality of the available services. But we don't control the county in this way in any other field. Then I wonder if you'll go in and decide which lines to have at the schools in the South Trondelag, and which education courses to have at the schools in the Hordaland. If we had, it would have been much more demanding for me as committee chairman to answer Monica Mæland, who, after all, had a leadership function in KS, and that's why she said at this hearing in the direction of the KS, that 'they are mixing you too much away in detail'. So this is most about the division of labour between the different levels of governance, and I consider that to be a very relevant element in this debate, even though the representatives of the Right think this is instructive. Based on the debate that has been, I think it's absolutely in place to mention it, for to me it seems as if you're jumping elegantly over just that, while you're making it a major point. That is why I am calling for very specific proposals on the content, which you think are so much in disagreement about. It's not, in my opinion. That is why, from the opposition, both the SV and the Workers' Party, we must be quite right to be able to claim that this debate has been a bit funny, based on both the position and how we have experienced the discussion in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e482	I just couldn't humiliate myself, but had to take the chance to say a few more words. So much outside talk and forenakk, and we won't understand – I feel there's a lot that isn't right here. When some even go so far as to encourage the opposition to make a proposal to transfer the vocational school back to the state, I am amazed. How many times have we not stood here and said it in debates, with oral questions and written questions? And what do we get? We get the Minister's answer that we have this for observation, we closely follow this. Even representatives from the position agree with these comments that this should be for observation to see that the vocational schools benefit the industries that we depend on in this country to make it go around and get jobs. On top of all, the highest level of vocational education is the vocational schools. Nevertheless, we are going to leave them to the counties, when universities and colleges are state responsibility. How does the government show that vocational training is to be built when the vocational schools are in a way treated in a vote relative to other higher education? Then the minister says that education is going very well, well, and that they have ambitions for education in the sector – that's also clear. Yes, we agree, the ambitions in the sector are clear, but what are the conditions for achieving these ambitions? So we have 1972 textbooks -- teachers need to spend a huge amount of time and resources looking at the Internet to find out what to teach and coordinate it. 1972, we've been informed that the textbooks are from – it's amazing in one of the richest countries in the world. It's a speck I never use, but today I just had to bring it out. Perhaps a national framework plan is needed to ensure that government parties can really understand how this is to be resolved in the future – in order to dare to take political action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e495	Now I think the debate has become a little more tidy, at least for my own part, since the last time I stood here. What I mean, and we red-green think, is that we know enough about the big challenges we're facing, which very many people from both the opposition and the position have had good ideas about, to be able to discuss actions. Then we have actions going on, and it's very important to keep track of how they work. They may need to be reinforced, so that we can really solve the exciting challenges here – absolutely. This is going to be a dynamic debate in which the Stortinget is definitely going to participate, but we're going to be able to participate in it without making a big message. We must have such faith as big politicians, that we should be able to participate in good debates – in this case with business and county councils – in order to contribute in our own way, rather than making a big message for internal use. We should know enough about this to do our part of the job. On the other hand, I agree that we need a big message, and that seems to me to have been made clear through the last posts here, if that is the way we want a paradigm shift in the way we manage both higher education, colleges and secondary schools. If that's how we want a stronger state that controls both the structure and the content of education from above, we need a new big message. I now have the most sense that we are playing the role we are now doing, that we are rather lubricating the positive processes that are going on between school owners and society and business out there, outside of the Storting, than we are going to reintroduce a state override. As I said many times from my side, I am particularly surprised that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that will go in the head to gather more power at state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e508	Jon Georg Dale has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e511	It should not be a surprise to anyone that the Progress Party wants to move back to the state, where all other tertiary education courses are actually. It's not like we're different from practice here. Yet it is, and here I have not yet received an answer, that this debate is not just about organisational action, it is about example. on schemes linked to the training of certificates in vocational and higher education. Here, the Aasen selection has concluded with a recommendation, and there is no form of assessment of the benefits and disadvantages in such cases – no assessment. When the Stortinget wants to put it on the agenda either to be able to strengthen the maritime education or at least make sure it doesn't get worse, we're going to deprive it of its potential. I would like a very clear response from the Council of State here, that no such changes are made without the Storting being involved in thorough processes, as one asks for in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e519	Henning Warloe has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e522	I guess we'll go right in for a landing. We have tabled a proposal for a representative on the right and the opposition has taken the proposal seriously. I can assure Marianne Aasen, our committee leader, that we have read the comments of the position, and that is perhaps some of the starting point for this debate. We're amazed at what line you're going on, what language you're using, and how seemingly passive you choose to deal with a theme that the government itself has underlined the enormous importance of. Not least during the major event this week, we have had enough confirmation of the enormous potential and great importance of this industry for Norway in all ways – a value-creating, strategic, etc. etc. It is to take it seriously that is the starting point of our proposal for a representative. So I regret to say that the representatives of the government parties have not given anything to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e531	I come from the desiderate largest offshore municipality and the largest fishing municipality in the country, and I mean to know this industry immeasurably well. When I listen to the debate here today, I get the impression that many of those who have had posts cannot have had a good enough dialogue with this industry. I actually don't think they've been out and found these mattresses, these coroners and these engineers. I would also like to mention in this context that perhaps the biggest challenge for maritime nutrition is the Right's model of competence for the net pay system. If that model had been completed, we would have shaved the whole maritime industry, because in that context, it is only the officers who are to be credited, not the mattresses and the motorists from whom we are to recruit in order to get the officer into this education. So I want to learn about the collaboration with the continuing schools, the colleges and the colleges. Then I can also start from my own state. The simulation in Ålesund benefits this entire industry. Here, whole crews can be trained on what they really meet – out in the North Sea, or preferably away in Brazil or Australia or wherever it might be. We also have something we call the Western model at the Stord/Haugesund High School, where they have a cooperation with advanced schools, colleges and colleges. This is a model that stands respect for, and a model that others should look at and learn from. I would again argue that cooperation between the various educational institutions has never been better than it is today. And we have high, highly qualified personnel coming out. We've never been as long-awaited as we are now in the world, whether we're in Brazil, Australia or wherever we are, when it comes to maritime competence. If there's any place in the world looking at Norway, it's just in this context. We're going to be proud of that, and I didn't think we're going to be excited about how these educations look, how they're going to organize themselves, from this hall. It must be completely, completely wrong. I thought we should take care of the good cooperation between the industry and the educational institutions. That's where we solve these challenges. We're on the right track, and I'm sure we'll be even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e546	The representative Svein Harberg has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e549	I've got an invitation, and then I'll give an invitation. I've got an invitation – from Hagen, it was well – that here we had to present just one thing about the things we wanted. We thought maybe it was natural that the government did a preliminary work, and then we got a case out of it. But I see that it is we who have to grips with it and grasp the things that we are getting feedback about are not working. So that invitation we're going to sit down and take a serious look at, we're the parties that want to strengthen the maritime sector. So it was the invitation I was going to give, and it was to Svein Gielsheth, who is both a smart and good staging representative and knows a lot about this. But I have received clear concerns from his district regarding the financing of this education. I didn't hear that he had come with me, so I think I'm inviting Svein Gielsheth with me on a joint visit to the maritime education in More and Romesdal, and we'll see what we get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e558	The representative, Arve Kambe, has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e561	The reason why I take the floor is that the rapporteur, Mr Glüsth, is bringing a new moment on the agenda and criticising the Right's model of competence. In the case of the government's Stylish course, there is a unanimous staging behind it. The red-green government has now cut the net pay scheme for two consecutive years, so that there has been a reimbursement scheme. That's what the right hand side has done. The government uses approx. Between 1.6 and 1.7 billion. kr, while the Right uses approx. From 1,2 to 1,3 billion. kr, depending on how it gets in. There's no dramatic difference. What the shipping companies have also said is very important to them, is access to the market, perhaps an opening for the NIS registers for offshore vessels, it has been the wealth tax, which is a huge burden, it has been flagging out, taxing active capital, inheritance tax. There's a whole bunch of other framework conditions here that are important, and I think the Right is well-known as the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 4263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e586	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e595	Then we will at least get back into the land again! I will present the Committee's proposal for an opinion on this matter. Initially, I would like to say that there is an overall committee that welcomes the fact that mobile slaughterhouses are used more in Norway than is happening today. We regard this scheme as a suitable complement to the regular slaughterhouses, especially in areas with large transport distances. They can reduce the need for long animal transport and the stress on animals. It is important to ensure high standards of animal welfare. We can also imagine that mobile slaughterhouses can facilitate small-scale production and local use of resources in line with agricultural policy objectives. The Committee is also concerned that strict hygiene requirements are also to be imposed on mobile slaughterhouses and that food safety is a matter of concern in any case. Yes, the legislation imposes as stringent requirements on mobile slaughterhouses as on permanent ones. There is a certain room for flexibility in today's legislation, but it is important that the legislation is managed equally with the different actors. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Advance Party, submits in a joint statement that the government continues to contribute to the consistent procedures and approval mechanisms of the Food Safety Authority that adequately meet the requirements of the mobile slaughterhouses. Furthermore, it is important that the routines of the Food Safety Authority support the flexibility of today’s legislation and that the Food Safety Authority exploits the space for action provided by the legislation in order to provide good solutions for mobile slaughterhouses. I certainly believe that good solutions can be found within today's legislation, and I assume that the government is confident that those possibilities will be exploited. I am not a supporter of the fact that we are going to process the case in relation to individual companies here in the storeroom. I assume that those who have proposals in the case outside the setting will themselves promote these. We in the Labour Party have also noticed that there seems to be a trend in this area in the EU, and I assume that both the Food Authority and the Government are keeping themselves informed about this. I would say that in the majority we sympathise with the intentions of the proposal we are now considering, but we have come to the conclusion that the proposal cannot be accepted precisely on the basis of the fact that there is flexibility in this legislation that can be exploited by the Food Authority, and we trust that the government will ensure that this is done and practiced in a consistent manner throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e617	Since 2006, Norwegian farmers in the West have had offers of mobile livestock slaughterhouses. In the past, there have been offers of mobile slaughterhouses for the slaughter of game and farmed game. The authorisation was granted to Mobilslakt AS in 2006 by the Food Safety Authority for the slaughter of domestic animals. Now the Food Authority will stop the activity of Mobilslakt AS due to hygiene conditions. These conditions mainly relate to the requirements for toilets and wardrobe facilities for the staff of the car to be slaughtered. Mobile slaughterhouses do not have such facilities, either in or in addition to the slaughterhouse. According to the Food Safety Authority’s requirements, employees may use permanent toilets and wardrobe facilities on the farm on which they are to carry out the slaughter. Mobile slaughter AS has been exempt since 2006 from using these wardrobe facilities in the permanent premises of Strilalam BA. This derogation has now expired and the Food Authority is not willing to renew the derogation. In connection with St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare, noted the following: «All slaughtering of animals for human consumption shall take place by stunning before bleeding. Reference is made to the following positive aspects of the situation in slaughterhouses: – Norwegian slaughterhouses must be approved prior to their entry into service in the interest of animal welfare. – There is continuous good cooperation between the control authority and the company.’ It was further noted that: ‘There is, however, an increasing interest and concern among consumers about the conditions for the animals at the slaughterhouse and during the slaughter itself. The Ministry of Agriculture will focus on some aspects where improvement is desirable and possible: [[...]] This was said in the message, but you do the opposite. And another point: ‘– Well-run field slaughterhouses, mobile slaughterhouses and farm slaughterhouses shall take good care of animal welfare.’;» According to current legislation, mobile slaughterhouses are subject to the same requirements as permanent slaughterhouses. On the other hand, the Party of Progress is of the opinion that hygiene requirements for the food sector should be strict due to food safety and quality. It must also apply to the handling of slaughter of both domestic and game animals. However, the Party of Advances is of the opinion that it should be possible to relax requirements for devices by mobile slaughterhouses in respect of toilets and wardrobe facilities in relation to permanent slaughterhouses, as mobile slaughterhouses will have the possibility to use those facilities in the permanent farms where the slaughter is to be carried out. Currently, there is only one approved mobile slaughterhouse that slaughters pure. Norway is, in fact, unique in the European context. In the other European countries, the focus is on animal welfare and has decided to use several mobile slaughterhouses in order not to stress the animals, which also leads to better meat quality. The EU has adopted the following in Protocol 33: «Animal welfare is a Community value which is enshrined in the Protocol on animal welfare and animal welfare annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community. [[no 33]] [[...]] This is what the EU says, which is much more liberal and open to other slaughterhouses. The government also assumes that the word ‘appropriate’ is synonymous with ‘appropriate’, in this case its own premises. We believe this to be wrong in the Progress Party. The government's interpretation excludes the permanent premises of each farm. This seems quite strange when the premises are obviously suitable for veterinarians and the staff of the Food Safety Authority, but not for those to slaughter. As I have found out after going into the papers, Norway with the government’s interpretation is unique and anti-business. They don't have it like that in Europe. Unfortunately, we record once again that the most important thing for the government of Stoltenberg is to ensure and protect the monopolist and market regulator Nortura SA at the expense of animal welfare and the proper organisation of farmers' own slaughter in the districts. It is time to take into account animal welfare and follow the rest of Europe and let the animals be slaughtered as close as possible to the farm. With this, I am promoting the proposal of the Progress Party, and we will subsidly support proposal No. Four, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e667	Does the representative, Mr Träldal, also mean to promote the proposal that the Progress Party has with the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e670	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e675	The representative Torgeir Tåldal then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e678	It has been explained quite well to the factors relating to animal welfare and that part of the case, so I will not spend time repeating it. But there are some things we have to take with us anyway. From the Red-Green Government, a number of programmes are run to ensure industries based on Norwegian food. In the areas of seafood, agriculture and reindeer farming, Norwegian food is promoted as a bet area. We also have a national travel strategy, based on the fact that the food industries and the diversity of Norwegian-produced products are an important part of the experience. In the Right's view, this is both a right and an important bet. It is also true that there are more and more producers presenting good local products. The variety of such producers is thus an important contribution to the tourism product Norway. Another important part of this product is our reputation as a nation where food safety is held high in claim. In this respect, the safety of compliance with hygiene requirements and the functioning of the control apparatus are very important. We have little reason to believe that this is not well taken care of. At the same time, we should be aware that in our diverse country, we have many different producers, and that the reasons for finding flexible solutions are, in fact, many. Often these are producers of food that operates in small quantities. The costs of driving in Norway are high, regardless of what you do. The tell-tale will then face several challenges. It shall ensure that production is carried out in accordance with the guidelines in force, taking into account that costs cannot exceed what is available to serve on production. This requires flexibility in the interpretation of the legislation. In the case of the mobile slaughterhouses, in the opinion of the Right, there is insufficient flexibility. And it's actually also other things that we've taken to this room, where we believe that the sufficient flexibility in interpreting laws is not being preserved. In fact, if the places where the slaughter is to be carried out do not have staff facilities that meet the requirements set, there can be no production of food there. It therefore appears unnecessary to require slaughterhouses to carry their own ‘appropriate’ premises in order to comply with these requirements. There is no reason in the answers from the Council of State that builds up under the position of the position in this matter. It must therefore be seen as an exasperation that you are not willing to look at this. In the opinion of the Right, no new law is necessary. Here, only new guidelines can be put in place to clarify requirements and to ensure the necessary flexibility. Therefore, we propose to grant conditional approval to Mobilslakt AS. The condition then is that approved human resources facilities are present and available to the personnel of Mobilslakt AS. The right also considers that for food safety reasons no distinction should be made between legislation on permanent and mobile slaughterhouses. That is why we do not support the proposals made by the Progress Party. However, we believe it needs to be cleared up in this matter, and therefore ask the government to start working on national regulations. So finally, there is little in the answers from the Council of State or in the comments to the position that indicates that we disagree very much on this matter. That is why it seems quite strange to the Right that the position will not attach the matter to the Minutes, but reject it. The right-hand party therefore proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e701	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e704	As the Economic and Social Committee has pointed out, and as well as the rapporteur, Arne L. The Haugen, the focus of the legislative process, has been on establishing mobile slaughterhouses in the interests of animal welfare, local resource use and small-scale food production. I cannot see that today's legislation is a barrier to this. Mobile domestic slaughterhouses are currently available and operate in accordance with the legislation. The proposal has a background in the slaughterhouse business Mobile slaughter AS. Mobile slaughter AS has been operating a mobile slaughterhouse since 2006 where they have used available wardrobes and toilets at each slaughter site. This has been accepted by the Food Safety Authority — based on an assessment of each slaughter site. Mobile slaughter AS has now applied for a general approval of the establishment, irrespective of the place of slaughter. The activities will then be self-contained with wardrobes and toilets. It is from such a solution that I have explained the content and background of the legislation. In contact with the Food Safety Authority, I have been informed that Mobilslakt AS has said that they are keeping to the plans to have the slaughterhouse ready for regular approval before the summer. The legislation in the field of food has several purposes, including: safe food, consumer considerations, animal health, animal welfare and environmentally friendly production. All of these objectives are important, but most importantly, the purpose of the Food Law is to ensure food safety. This is essential both in the development of legislation and in the balancing of different considerations and in the exercise of professional judgement in individual cases. Food reform included, inter alia: the introduction of revised food hygiene and official controls legislation. The majority unanimously agreed to include this in the EEA Agreement in 2008. This gave us a simpler and more targeted regulatory framework. The regulatory framework provides a basis for finding solutions adapted to individual activities. It requires expertise both at the company itself and at the Food Authority. The regulatory framework is EEA-based. Access to the granting of a derogation is restricted. The Food Hygiene Regulation lays down general requirements for all types of establishments, including: on toilets, washbasins and wardrobes: An appropriate number of water toilets shall be provided that are connected to an efficient sewer system. There shall be no direct access from them to food-handling premises. Alternative toilet solutions without water supply may also be accepted if this does not cause hygienic disadvantages. An appropriate number of washbasins shall be provided and specially designed for washing hands. Washbasins shall have running hot and cold water. Where necessary, appropriate wardrobes shall be provided for the staff. These requirements are laid down because toilets, washbasins and suitable wardrobes are essential for good hygiene conditions. Capacity, design and access to sanitary facilities must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, based on the type of production and the risk factors involved. The requirements are flexible and the legislation provides for professional judgement to be exercised by the activities themselves and by the Food Safety Authority. I am aware that the Food Safety Authority focuses on the most consistent supervision possible. At the same time, account must be taken of the fact that the new targeted legislation gives businesses greater opportunity to choose their own solutions. If mobile slaughterhouses become more common, it may be appropriate to develop national guides to good hygiene practice in this sector as well. I do not see the need for a specific legislation on hygiene for mobile slaughterhouses. It will derogate from the principles of general provisions and their design, on the basis of which the revised food hygiene legislation of 2008 is based. As for other establishments, I think it is possible for mobile slaughterhouses to find appropriate solutions and produce safe food within today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e736	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e739	Thus, for nearly six years, it has been said that this is a suitable place to operate a slaughterhouse. But now, after six years, you withdraw the permit, and you think that the word ‘appropriate’ is synonymous with ‘appropriate’, that you have to have your own toilet. My question to the Council of State is then: why has the word «appropriate» now become that you have to have your own toilet, and not as it has been for six years, that a «appropriate» toilet is to use the facilities on the farm? What's changed over the six years, since you've turned it all around?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e746	As I understand it, it is true that Mobile slaughter AS has been operating a slaughterhouse since 2006, and that there has been a derogation. But it has been linked to the use of wardrobes and toilets in permanent premises at another slaughterhouse, an establishment called Strilalam BA. These were pre-approved. What Mobilslakt AS has now done, as far as I understand – this is a single matter that is being dealt with in the Food Authority now – is that they have applied for approval irrespective of the place of slaughter. In fact, there has to be pre-authorised facilities for washing, hygiene, for which I explained quite carefully in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e751	The Council of State is really quite clear about the legislation, and I think the intention is actually good. The benefit of mobile slaughterhouses in both nutrition and animal welfare is also explained. As far as legislation and legislation are concerned, it is always the case that if it is perceived as complicated and difficult, you might hesitate a little to put it into practice. Now the state council says that if there are ever more mobile slaughterhouses, it might be wise to look at national regulations. In my opinion, it may be that the lack of national regulations complicates this. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think that there is a lack of national regulations, and that this appears to be quite complicated, perhaps preventing the establishment of a mobile slaughterhouse, which you really want, the times it is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e758	I want to underline what I started with in the first article. It was precisely the business committee's concern that it should be possible to facilitate the use of mobile slaughterhouses. But then it is also that when there are hygiene requirements, and we know about, and have experience in, quite serious issues, for example. E. coli infection, due to lack of hygiene – at least there have been issues where it has been promoted – is actually quite important that we are strict on hygiene requirements, for food safety. But, as I said, here it's important to find good solutions. Creating a specific code for one establishment becomes a bit special when other mobile slaughterhouses are doing well, in terms of domestic hygiene.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e763	I want to ask questions to the Council of State. In Europe and elsewhere, it is recognised that the facilities have been located in the farms in question. They do so based on animal welfare and to improve meat quality, but primarily because of animal welfare. My question to the Council of State is: why does Norway have to be more hostile to business and have a worse animal welfare situation, i.e. to have a much stricter regulatory framework than elsewhere in Europe? Are there special facilities, are there special temperatures? What is the difference between Norway and the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e772	I mentioned EU legislation. We've joined it. So it's like there's one company that has applied for approval. The establishments applying for authorisation must be able to comply with the hygiene requirements applicable in Norway and applicable elsewhere. So you have to follow the same code. It is important to stress that having mobile slaughterhouses can be a very good solution. We see that when it comes to tamrein, as I said. But it is also absolutely necessary to comply with the legislation. It's not impossible to handle it. Both animal welfare and animal welfare must be ensured in order to meet the needs of a – generally decentralised – slaughterhouse establishment, but it must therefore be prepared to comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e781	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e786	Sometimes I wonder whether the government is voting down proposals from the Progress Party simply because it comes from the Progress Party, regardless of how good a proposal is. Today, the issue of changing legislation for mobile slaughterhouses should be something that could all be brought together about. The proposal benefits the slaughterhouses concerned, it benefits the districts, and, not least, it will benefit the farmers. In addition, it benefits animal welfare. All of these things are something that everyone has a positive attitude to. Nevertheless, the Labour Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre will vote against. For me, it seems that what is said positively about rural and agricultural policy in the open, in debates, etc., is not always the same as when it comes to voting in the main hall. I also record that the Central Party does not take the floor in a debate on farmers' opportunities. It surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e797	Ten-twelve years ago, I was in the lucky situation that I was on the Swedish Advisory Committee. On our many interesting trips we visited, among other things. Sogn and Fjordane, where an enthusiast had invested a lot of money in getting a mobile slaughterhouse in place. This money is lost for the longest time. Unfortunately, it is in stark contrast to the flaming speeches I remember from political figures such as Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim. I believe even today's Norwegian Prime Minister has indicated the need to put in place more flexible solutions à la Europa. We also enjoyed visiting farm dairy and slaughterhouse in Switzerland. Now Switzerland is not an EU country, but we were in France. I just have to say that at least my own experience was that if they had been able to produce such a standard as they had in the project that we had seen in Sogn and Fjordane, it would have been a dream to visit these facilities abroad. Today animals are transported between 10 and 20 miles. You talk about animal welfare, and of course everyone agrees with everything the Council of State says. But how far have you managed to get in ten to twelve years here in Norway? The intention is to boost local food production and branding at a time when we see that agriculture, of course for many different reasons, needs to centralize its activities. Buildings are depopulated because the distance between words from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries to action and follow-up from the Ministry of Health is so great that it is at least the same level of miles as for the transport of animals to slaughterhouses in the country of origin. Therefore, I find it very disappointing that this proposal gets the fate it does today, and that there is a lack of interest in the hall, as some parties in their absence illustrate. I think the Minister of Health should take this into account if this is not to develop. In ten years' time I'm not here anymore, but then you probably haven't come a step closer to the solution, because there doesn't seem to be any willingness to follow up words with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e808	I will not extend the debate in any way. I just find out a few things. Firstly, a total accumulation is concerned with the possibility of using mobile slaughterhouses as a good system. The Minister of Health has also stressed that this will be a good arrangement. But then there may be different views on food security issues, because that is what is challenged in the various speeches and the various proposals available. The Right Party and the Advance Party want to give conditional approval to Mobilslakt AS, i.e., a review from Stortinget's pulpit. Without knowing exactly what Mobile Sludge AS stands for, they want to give conditional approval. I think that's quite challenging and a little special. The right will not vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which says that a person must have his own rules for mobile slaughterhouses. They will vote against that. But at the same time, they will attach the proposal to the protocol, which is just about to set up their own rules for mobile slaughterhouses. So that's a little bit of a strange way to approach the proposal. The majority – among others government parties – and the Minister of Health and Government fully understand that a person wants to have mobile slaughterhouses, but we do not want to have our own and weaker rules on food hygiene in mobile slaughterhouses. Therefore, it is quite natural that you have an input to the proposal that it is not acceptable. It is a rather strange thought design Right-wing choice, when they do not want to have their own rules for mobile slaughterhouses, but at the same time does not reject the proposal of the Progress Party on self-regulation for mobile slaughterhouses. It's a rather unclear approach to the relationship. There must be no doubt: we want to have mobile slaughterhouses within the framework that is, and at the same time be very clear that we will not challenge food security through a poorer regime for mobile slaughterhouses than for regular slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e824	It is my intention to extend the debate! This issue is essentially about the need to be able to send a signal that a flexible interpretation of the law is needed, with flexible solutions, but there is a common objective: food security should not be set aside. The reason why we believe that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes is that there is a great deal of understanding in the comments. One sends a signal that you want flexible solutions, but the same goal. What the position is saying here is that you kind of agree, but you don't agree with the proposal. So you don't want an interpretation that's flexible for business. And this case is not just about one slaughterhouse and one case, it is about sending a signal that you should interpret the legislation flexibly. So it's going to be easier to do business where you need mobile slaughterhouses. Then the head of the Business Committee himself will be unable to look so advanced on this. But the reason we want to attach that protocol is that we want to send a positive signal to the Food Safety Authority that the legislation should be interpreted for the benefit of the industry – and for food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e842	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e858	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e867	We are discussing here a proposal that Health South-East should transfer parts of Aker Hospital to Akershu University Hospital in line with Stensby Hospital and Ski Hospital, and that buildings, crews and equipment should be included, so that Aarhus achieves increased capacity. The proposers point out that responsibility for, inter alia, 160,000 new citizens from the Oslo area were transferred to Aarhus from 1 January 2011 and that the hospital, which was originally planned to have a patient base of about 160,000. 350,000, this has been increased to approx. 460,000. Therefore, the proposers consider that measures are necessary to increase capacity beyond what has been achieved in the transition. The proposers refer to information from employees that Ahus’ bedpost capacity should be too low, and that Ahus is completely dependent on what the proposers call branch hospital, in order to avoid major problems. On this basis, the proposers consider that relevant bed items, equipment and staff should be transferred to Aarhus in parts of the former Aker hospital. An overall committee indicates in the vote that the change in responsibility for Aarhus is part of the so-called capital process under the direction of Health South-East. The merged regional enterprise was established because it was a non-optimal resource use and lack of coordination across former Health East and Health South, especially in the Capital Region. An example of this was that the Rikshospitale and Radium Hospital, which were part of Health South, received most of their patients from Health East. A Joint Committee states that ‘the newly formed health south-east has the potential for better coordination and quality, and is aware that much of the development work was organised in regional processes, one of which has been linked to the capital area’. The majority of the Committee, which is all parties other than the Progress Party, refers to the fact that the Minister of Health and Welfare has followed up the regional undertaking to ensure that implementation plans were risk assessed and corrected in the event of capacity or safety challenges. The majority note that the future role of Aker Hospital is not fully established, but that by 2012 there will still be several types of specialist healthcare in the premises. Aker is being set up as an area for interaction between specialist health services and the municipality, and a project is being established between the Municipality of Oslo and Oslo University Hospitals to focus on prevention, early intervention and comprehensive and coordinated services for different patient groups. The Minister of Health and Welfare, by letter to the Committee of 7 April, has given assurances that the situation will be closely monitored in order to ensure the quality and sufficient capacity of Aarhus' services. The majority of the Committee, who are members of all parties except the Progress Party, suggests that this proposal for a representative be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e884	This representative's proposal came about because I had a meeting with Ahus in February. Then we had a lot of headlines in the papers about an increasing number of corridor Asians. These figures also increased following the promotion of the representative proposal. There I received, among others. be informed that it is five months’ waiting time, e.g. on MR, while there are a large number of MRI machines on Aker that are not in use. We have also been informed that the number of birthers registered for the summer is too large in relation to the capacity. So there's several reasons to think about what happens after we get a new recording area. But what about the individual up in all of this? A young girl who belongs to the new field, that is, to Ahus, has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, which is a very demanding disease. She has been rushing for several years and has spent the last two and a half years using all the energy she owns and has, to keep herself free. She sits alone inside, she dares not go out, and she labors with anxiety and loneliness. She has asked for help and has waited. Finally, it peaked. Early this week we found her in a blood pool--she had cut herself sharply up. Then most would probably think that she got help, but no. They don't call this a suicide attempt, they call it self-harm, and it's not acute. She has not taken any overdose, so they cannot put her in the emergency for it. But if she had pulled down on the Plate and bought herself a dose, they could have helped her. For me it becomes so hopeless when I meet such fates. The only answer I get from the Minister of Health about the capacity problems is that she should follow developments closely. And while the Health Minister follows the situation carefully, I can't do anything but hold this girl around, rock her in my arms and cry with her. Now I hope that the Minister of Health doesn't just follow the situation terribly long, because I don't know how long this girl lasts. I am grateful that she was in such a condition last night that she did not get the news about new cuts in Health South-East, because she asked me late last night: How do you really get help in this country? And I just had to say, I don't know, my friend, I'm doing the best I can. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e895	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e898	The setting takes on board a very significant, interesting element of the largest reorganisation in the Norwegian health system. There have been significant reorganisations before, but there have been top reorganisations, i.e. changes in ownership and legal employers. But what is happening in the capital now is a total reorganisation affecting many, many thousands of health care workers, and not least – and that is the case – almost half of the country’s patients. And as I said, previous reorganisations have only affected ownership and division. Since everything is related to it, I have a question to the Council of State on the basis of what became known in the media yesterday, that it is such that the Director in his case submission to the Board of Health South-East has come to the conclusion that the reorganisation of the capital process is no longer realistic within the framework of the available time, and within the guarantees that have come not least from the political point of view, that the total hospital supply in the Oslo region should not be reduced by quality for those in a treatment course, nor, of course, for those who are waiting for treatment by being included in the health cows in this area. Other hospitals have pointed out that in terms of the conversion of the distribution of hospitals between them in the Oslo area, among other things. not take into account that some cost components are higher in this area. There is a consistently higher wage level because you compete for skilled labour, there are higher land prices, and there is a higher price for renting or owning property. This I have previously tried to get a response from the Minister of Health – not a satisfactory response. The answer has come, but she has not exactly answered the core of what I have asked for. And I'm now using the opportunity to ask why impact assessments have not been carried out. This has not happened to me. What's happening now is that 620 million. kr shall be deducted from the framework of the other Oslo hospitals during a four-year period, while at the same time pointing out that the Council of State has sent out directives and circulated that it is assumed that no one will be harmed. My question to the Council of State in this debate is: how can it be assumed that such a waste of resources does not lead to increased cows or poorer treatment? I would also ask the Council of State – as it is currently up to date – to comment that her own implementing body, namely Health South-East, no longer sees the leadership of the department as realistic for the total reorganisation taking place within the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e911	This case concerns the transfer of parts of Aker from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus. I have to answer that first. So I'm going to try, if I have time, to answer some of what the representative Tetzschner brought up. If I can't get back to it. But there can be no doubt that the government has security for everyone as its first and most important objective in health policy. That's true in Oslo, and it's true everywhere else. It implies that the services are of good quality and of sufficient capacity. Of course, the services will also be provided within the framework provided by the Storing and it has been right and necessary to increase these frameworks significantly after we took over the government in 2005. The switchovers in Health South-East, including the metropolitan area, aim to coordinate services and adapt capacity in order to provide patients with a better range of services. The aim is to make good use of resources and to provide services of good quality. A prerequisite for the conversions in the metropolitan area was that the population of the three northernmost districts of Oslo would receive their local hospital services at the new Akershu University Hospital, that is, Ahus. This was already clear when the Stortinget gave a clear signal for the construction of the State budget for 2004. The population of the districts of Grorud and Stovner was transferred to Aarhus in 2004, while the population of the district of Alna and the municipalities of Follo were transferred by the turn of the year 2010/2011. The patient base for Aarhus is now about 460,000 people. The proposers point out that Aarhus was originally planned with a smaller patient base. Aarhus was originally dimensioned with a smaller patient base in the pre-project, based on the population of the Roman Empire and the three northernmost districts of Oslo. However, the final design is based on the current population base. There are several reasons why the patient base has been extended. Much has happened in medical technology in recent years. This has led to an increasing number of patients being treated with day surgery or receiving outpatient treatment. It means shorter bedtime and that the hospital can carry out several treatments. In December 2010 new buildings were also completed and put into service at Aarhus with approx. 200 new beds. Health South-East has made thorough capacity assessments, including from external investigators, on the basis of the extended patient base of Aarhus. I'm aware that there have been some challenges at Aarhus in the transition phase. Many new employees need extensive training in systems, procedures and technical equipment. This has contributed to the lack of optimal logistics and treatment activity at the hospital. In addition, there was an exceptionally large number of patients in winter due to viral infections and influenza. Today there is a high patient coverage at Ahus. Employees, who have made a solid effort, are in the process of finding good work patterns and cooperation relations. This will gradually improve logistics and increase hospital treatment activity. In addition, there is free capacity both at the patient hotel and at the two ‘branch hospitals’ on Stensby and Ski. Health South-East has assured them that they are following the situation at Ahus closely. The assessment is that Aarhus has the capacity to deal with the increased patient base — also with the estimated population growth in the region. Medical developments, changes in operation and also changes in work sharing between the hospital and the community health service will affect the need for bed places. The need for bed places will therefore not be directly related to population growth. I can assure you that the government is following developments in the future. As far as Aker Hospital is concerned, I have requested that this be an interaction venue for the capital population, where hospitals in the capital area cooperate closely with the Municipality of Oslo. In my opinion, this is a forward-looking and innovative way of meeting the challenges of the future. The representatives' proposal to transfer parts of Aker Hospital to Ahus will limit both the necessary conversions in the capital area and the further development of the Aker interaction arena. I therefore cannot support the proposals made by the representatives. Now I see that the time for my post is up, so I get to come back and comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e939	There'll be other line change, and there might be some questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e942	The Minister of Health's optimism and explanation we have heard countless times. But there is still a violation of rights every day. Nor does the Minister of Health want to intervene this time, but he will follow the situation closely. We've heard that for a long time. The question then arises: is it that the Minister of Health does not know that there is a breach of rights, or that the Minister of Health accepts that there is a breach of rights, which is the reason for not doing anything, but continuing to follow the situation and have confidence in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e949	My initial optimism is based on the fact that, after all, we live in a country where we can afford to have one of the world's best health services. So that doesn't mean that it can't get better, that not everything goes the way it should, that there's not a breach of patient rights, because we see that it is. And precisely because we experienced many deadlines – a large number of deadline breaks – I also took it up with all the regional health companies. Luckily, therefore, deadlines are on the way down. Then we actively work with waiting times, because it is important that sick people should not wait too long for treatment. Examples that the representative Kjenaas Kjos has also mentioned are, of course, those that affect us all. There should be no breach of patient rights, and that is why you work every day to avoid that happening. It is regrettable when someone does not experience being taken care of in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e956	I'll come back in a line, so we can get the dialogue going. I am not going to spend so much time beyond what I said instead, but rather go straight to a very final question: what about the regime in Health South-East now dealing with governance documents where the Executive Director believes that the Oslo process and the major reorganisation it is part of do not take place within realistic economic framework or deadlines? Then we get a lot of insurance along the way, both in this room and in the public, that the council follows the conversion very carefully and almost personally. Then I have one specific question: How many personal meetings have the councils had with the board of Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e964	Meetings with Health South-East we actually have regularly. It's because it's a regional health company, which has a big business and, as Tetzschner's representative says, there's a big change going on. It is also the case that when you carry out such a great transformation, as it is in today's media, the Health Inspectorate is inside and looks at how this is done to ensure the safety of patients. Because it was quite predictable that I got this question today, I took this up this morning with the Director of Health Care, who assures that although it is clear that it is demanding what is happening, there is no reason for further concern that patients should receive the treatment they need and deserve. It's the most important thing for me, because the conversion has been notified, it's been known, and it's actually absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e971	A brief supplementary question: when the Council of State uses the word ‘we’, is it majesty pluralis for ‘me’, or is it the department, or does the Council of State think it is herself personally who can tell that she has had a meeting with the Board of Directors?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e976	I have had, that is, the ministry, but for the representatives of the Stortinget I am the one. But I've actually had that, too. That's when the director I'm dealing with in that context, at least in the first place, and also of course the managing director and the entire board when we have business meetings. It is not that we have regular meetings with them, but we have contact with the board. Of course I do. So I just want to add, since economics was mentioned, that it's important to also stress that there's been quite considerable migration resources to Oslo University Hospital. That's $12 billion. Total kr. You know, this conversion, you know, you know that. So we just have to keep working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e983	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1003	My interest in health and care technology was aroused in the mid-1990s. I was at a Nordic congress of nurses in Finland and spoke to one of the lectures. He told me about three scenarios. The first was that hospitals would be built up and tasks would be transferred to hospitals and municipal services. There would be opportunities for too much patient treatment via electronic technology. 10-15 years would take. Then the nursing homes would be built into the next phase. The technology would have come so far that it would be possible to live at home with direct contact with health and care services from there. Much of the treatment could happen through new technology, and technology would help more people to live at home. It was new 10–15 years. The third scenario was that technology would be built into man and be included in our homes. There would be direct contact between individuals and health professionals in hospitals, home care or inpatient settings. Samples could be sent, consultations held and feedback given without intermediate. It's the next 10 to 15 years. So I can say today that he was quite right; we are now on our way into phase two. But it's going a little bit slow. One of the main threats to good care and welfare services in the future is that politicians, educational institutions and professionals, especially in municipalities, do not know what opportunities technology offers, and that there is no overall plan in each municipality for how to develop health and care services through the use of technology. Another threat to good solutions is that users are not sufficiently involved in the development of technology and software. Most of the technology is developed for acute and somatic conditions, and other needs need to be addressed for other user groups. It's like when the car was invented: It took time before you found out that you had to have an infrastructure around the invention and even longer time to adapt the car to the individual driver. Municipalities are responsible for our primary health and care services — services that are important to many people’s everyday lives. Development is fast, and there are many possibilities. Politicians and trade unions need to learn more about technology opportunities, but also about its limitations. In my opinion, too many people are stuck in the myth that technology is equal to alienation. They pick out knowledge and rarely take overall action. Much is left to more or less committed administration. This results in a lack of bet, totality and knowledge, and prevents many sick and nursing people today from getting as good help and care as they could have. This is not responsible practice. My own experience with politics, science and technology is mixed. I took the initiative myself to develop a technological plan in Kristiansand a few years ago. The proposal did not receive a majority. I was a supervisor and a lecturer for nursing students at the end of the 1990s. Many of them were against technology: it was alienating, it became colder care, and the good relations would disappear. I believe that such attitudes are based on a lack of knowledge and understanding, also because I remember too well my own nursing practices. At that time, in the mid-1980s, the new possibilities for monitoring the heart, respiration and pulse were found in patients when they were in the intensive care unit. We got these "taxes" in the staff room, where we could monitor several patients at the same time. It was screens, and it was keyboard. We students were strongly opposed to these newcomers' stuff. It would remove us from the bed and patient, and the good relationship between nurse and patient would disappear. Technology wasn't good enough. The best thing was our own close follow-up. For what of the other symptoms, like damp skin, need to have someone to talk to, to be able to express thirst or hunger? Technology didn't solve this. These are the same arguments that the students presented to me about fifteen years later. Having said that, it is also important to say that technology, of course, cannot and should not replace human warmth, clinical expertise and practice, and close interpersonal care. This is the essential and essential part of the quality of all health and social professions. Clinical competence, direct contact, quality and patient safety shall be the focus, regardless of the framework within which care and patient treatment is carried out. But there is a need for everyone to get involved in the opportunities and limitations of technology. Many politicians locally are concerned about improving the conditions for patients and others. For some, this means fighting for the maintenance of hospital wards, more money for municipalities, or delimiting or including responsibilities. I am pleased to see that rapporteurs, local politicians and action groups are fighting to get budget funds for mobile x-rays, so that the local public patients can sit at home and have contact with doctors or nurses via screen, so that these people do not have to spend time and energy on transport, waiting and meeting with more unknown people. I am looking forward to the day when politicians and action groups merge to get the electronic transmission of data between the different units in their own municipality, and the day they go into the bust to make everyday life better for addicts by using technology as a tool to make their everyday life better. I'm glad to! There are innovative and creative environments around the country, and some trade unions are at the forefront, including internationally, in the development and use of technology. National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine in Tromsø, KS, Lighthouse Municipalities, Technology Council, Trondheim Municipality and NTNU, Centres for Research-Based Innovation and Ullevål University Hospitals are some. I want to mention University of Agder. In nursing there are the faculties of economic and social science, technology and real science and health and sport together on nursing training. In this context, close cooperation between business and universities on innovation has been facilitated. That's very good! The University has a vision of becoming national leader in care technology. I have asked that they extend the vision to include rehabilitation and labour technology and include the other welfare training, and I hope that they will include this perspective in their future strategy plans as well. A lot is happening in the field of health and care, and I do not agree with those who criticize the government for being ‘on the heel’. In reality, we are far ahead and in international elite division in several areas. However, we should pay particular attention to the fact that there is no distinction, where technology is developed in services and for high-status groups. I don't think it's without reason that most technology is developed in emergency medicine and surgery. I see that also in services for drug addicts, child protection, elderly and chronic patient groups there is a need for technology to be used to improve many people's everyday lives. If the objective of equal access to good quality health and care services is to be effective, persons or services to those with low status diseases or who belong to low status disease groups must participate in the improvement of the services provided by the use of technology. Let me give you an example: an addict who is in rehabilitation, has an individual level, hepatitis C, goes on methadone, two children are in the care of child protection, lives on the outskirts of the center. Everyday life consists of countless meetings with many people: nav, outpatient clinic in hospitals and in drug treatment, permanent staff, meetings in the group of responsibilities, daily attendance to take methadone and follow-up of other interventions as part of rehabilitation. Often there will be little time for the last one. If technology had been exploited in a good way, it could have met in one place, for example: at the Nav Office or the zoning office of the care services, at one time, and met all their assistants through web conferences, in a single group, or separately. The same is true of many chronic disease groups, such as COPD patients, who have major problems moving. Is technology alienating? Of the studies I have read on technology as a tool for these patient groups, patient satisfaction is often greater in such follow-up than in personal presence, but it should not replace the latter. But when politicians talk about technology, the theme often comes to the fore in budgetary debates. It is launched as saving measures. In my view, this maintains and reinforces the resistance of trade unions, employees and most people – technology replaces something better. This is wrong. So summarized, technology gives new opportunities and has its limitations. We have come a long way in the overall development of services, especially in somatic and emergency medicine. It's slower in the municipalities. I look forward to hearing the answers of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1066	There are important questions the representative Henriksen addresses in this interview. Proper use of new technologies will be important to meet the major challenges of healthcare in the next decades, i.e.: more older new and younger user groups sufficient recruitment of healthcare professionals new requirements for medical follow-up and for a more active provision of care services Welfare and communication technologies such as smart home solutions, eHealth, telemedicine and new technical aids may be part of the response to these challenges. But no technology will ever replace human contact. This is a pre-requisite which must always be the basis of the discussion on the introduction of new technologies in the health and care sector. We're going to have a technology development that allows employees to spend more time on primary care tasks and less time and energy for transport, administration, supervision and heavy lifting. Technology can also help to postpone institutional residence and make users more self-reliant and independent. In particular, sound technological solutions that provide warning or easier contact with healthcare can contribute to increased safety. Technology shall be developed and used to provide better services to patients and users of municipal health and care services. These include both technologies that enable users to cope with everyday life and technologies that are used to streamline and improve services and procedures. Technical aids are available to enable disabled persons to live as active and independent a life as possible despite sickness or injury. This may be a means of obtaining or maintaining work, of improving functioning, or of being cared for at home. Such aids are usually provided through Nav. The municipality is responsible for lending aid if necessary on a temporary basis. We have one of the world's best technical aids schemes in Norway, but this needs to be complemented by the development of welfare technologies in municipalities. During 2012, the government will promote a major communication on electronic interaction in the health and care sector. The initiative on eHealth will be central to this message, including: access to patient information in electronic form, information exchange, web services for patients and users, and knowledge support for healthcare professionals. Welfare technology is also a central theme. Information technologies open up new ways of cooperating and new ways of providing health and care services. It is an objective to provide health and care services as close as possible to the patient or the user’s home. ICT solutions can prevent patients from going to hospitals for treatment, and they can help provide patients with a better health care where they live. The escalation plan for the drug field sets in motion work on providing qualitatively good governance data. These data should provide us with a good overview of the activity and content of services for people with drug problems. An important objective of the Interaction Reform is to balance social health inequalities, among other things. by focusing more on prevention and treatment in the past. The chronic and non-infectious diseases affect socially differently. A better treatment provision, including: by increasing the use of new technologies for this group, can contribute to the smoothing of social health inequalities. The interaction reform focuses on closer cooperation between healthcare professionals in the specialist healthcare service and in the municipalities. Telemedicine solutions will gradually become essential in this work. For example, telemedicine services are tested for patients with COPD, where they can communicate with healthcare professionals when they need it. They learn to master the disease so they can manage at home, and they feel safe. With mobile x-ray – the X-ray on wheels – X-rays can be taken in a nursing home and interpreted by an online specialist. The patient is not allowed to travel to the hospital. The development of medical technology and welfare technology takes place at express speed. However, we do not know what kind of services work best, and what kind of technology users use best. We need research and knowledge on actions, processes and interventions related to new technologies. Therefore, this is a priority area of the health and care research programme in the Norwegian Research Council. In 2009, the government appointed a public body that investigates opportunities and proposes new approaches and solutions to meet future care challenges. The Hagen selection is a follow-up of St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009 An innovative and sustainable Norway. The mandate emphasises that the service provision of the future should have a more active profile with stronger user influence and active participation from the individual, their families and the social network – in line with the Care Plan 2015. The committee will present its inquiry in June, i.e. in a short time. The government will come back to how we will follow up the selection proposal. The introduction of welfare technologies in municipalities must be based on good documentation and knowledge. In several places in the country, they've got off to a good start. The Government will support some of the initiatives taken, including: a project on welfare technology in Central Norway. There are three counties, KS and a number of municipalities testing welfare technology to contribute to increased self-esteem and security for recipients and relatives. Hamar Municipality has invested a lot in the development of home disease care. The nurses have started using small computers that they have in their pocket when traveling between patients, so-called PDA. In this way, they can easily see on the screen what tasks they have, retrieve information about the user, and they can call in touch and identify. There is a pressing need to speed up the development of welfare technology in municipalities. Therefore, in the Municipal Proposition for 2012, we warn that all nursing homes and nursing homes receiving grants from the Husbank are to be organised for the use of electronic aids, communication and warning systems and other welfare technologies. In order for municipalities to meet new care challenges and to provide good services to users, we need a common commitment for more and better use of technologies in municipal health and care services. The fact that public health services are up-to-date on the use of new technologies is the main guarantee that everyone can take part in development. It is therefore gratifying to see that the interest in welfare technologies, which can provide better solutions and better patient care, is growing in municipalities. I look forward to the launch of the Hagen Committee on Innovation in Care, which is due to be held in June. The government, as previously announced, will come back with an overall follow-up to this selection's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1111	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that was a good answer. It shows that things are going very well, and it shows that there is a focus on developing a technology that will make everyday life better. I also record that the Minister has good and great ambitions to continue this development. That's very good. I am also pleased that the mandate of the Hagen Committee places such emphasis on user involvement and that the family perspective has been included. What the Council of State said in the context of mental health protection, and the focus on early intervention for children and relatives, is very good. That we've begun to think completely and have got this into the community proposition is a good and important first step. There's something strange about this notion that technology should be so alienating. The field in which most technology has been used, which was also covered by the Council of State, relates to persons with disabilities. It rocked as well by the very concept of «disabled» when a sportsman with two artificial legs sought to run 800 meters in the Olympics in Beijing and was denied because he had such great benefits from the prostheses. And so – and also in many other ways – disabled people and their organisations have gladly accepted most of the technology. It has given them a more comfortable, more social and healthier life in an infinite number of ways. So maybe the Bjarne Befring's statistical law is being fulfilled: the normal can be abnormal so long as the abnormal becomes normal. Now no one asks whether an electric wheelchair, which can be raised and lowered and which is full of technology, is good. Nobody questions whether computers that can be controlled by their eyes are good for people with severe speech impairments. I think we can learn some of these organizations and the disabled and their experiences. Then I believe that future management documents must emphasise that municipalities and hospitals must have good dialogue and interaction on further development. The councils mentioned several examples of this, and I will mention an example from the Southern Hospital. Today there is a meeting between the hospital, the municipalities of the region and the KS, where they are just going to discuss the future use of technology, in order to avoid everyone developing in their own direction. In this respect, I have asked them to remember that they have a social mission to balance social differences. I'm assuming they want to focus on that. Arendal and Lwigal have been very active and are working strategically. I believe that all the representatives sitting in this Chamber would be able to provide good examples from their environments. Therefore, it is very important that we now have a debate on overall and governance related to this development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1128	I can't say anything but that I share the interpellant's commitment to the use of new technology and also the necessity of this, especially what was said about disabled people. There we've seen that technology can be the extra dimension that allows you to live an almost normal life, or get help with what you really can't do yourself in everyday life. It's kind of the good way to see the use of technology. So is it that the use of new technologies can create some ethical dilemmas. There's a lot of positive that happens, and that can happen, within, for example, care technology, in nursing homes and for people who are demented, where it can create greater security on the one hand, but on the other hand challenges privacy and freedom for individuals. I think this is in fact discussions that it is important to deal with the introduction of new technology. So I just want to mention – in all the discussion about our local hospitals and how we're going to be able to maintain all of these, because we can't do everything everywhere, and we can't have all kinds of specialties everywhere – that the use of telemedicine solutions, remote diagnosis, is important in this context. We are now trying that out at Nordfjord Hospital, in a separate project, to see how technology can be used in this context. This is used in several local hospitals, but how can this be used to a greater extent than at present? Then there's an area that I'd like to say -- actually to my surprise -- is a little bit back from the fact that the health sector is so technologically driven and then in the front line in many areas of patient treatment or technology in every possible context, and that's the administrative area that has many shortcomings. We're actively working on that. There will also be a great deal of importance to the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1139	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. If we are to meet the needs of the future for healthcare, it is necessary that both the specialist health service and not least the municipalities apply the technology. I think it is good that the interpellant focuses on the fact that using technology does not mean that we are not going to have warm hands and care in health care. For me, using health technology means more freedom for those who need health care. With e.g. Smarthouse solutions allow you to stay in your own home while at the same time ensuring that you get help when you need it. You can have technology that alerts you if you fall and don't get up on your own. It gives freedom to live safely in his own home and to rule his own life. We can have technologies that ensure that electrical equipment such as coffee funnels and frying plates turns off automatically after use. It can give you the opportunity to live at home even if your memory isn't the way it once was. It provides security both for the user and not least for the family. Many dents are reduced in their ability to move freely outside. If you have given permission to do so yourself, you can bring your GPS on tour, and if you do not find the way home yourself, the family or others can help you find one. It gives the freedom to go out whenever you want, at the time you want, and where you want. It gives a right to control your own life. The Health and Care Committee was on its way to the United States last year and got to see some of the technology they've been using there. They installed telecommunications equipment at the chroniclers' house. In this way they could have contact with health professionals via both sound and image. They had the opportunity to meet both the doctor and the nurse, and they could measure blood pressure and take other simple tests where the result could be seen both by the patient and by the therapist. They also had the security that they could reach health professionals 24 hours a day through telecommunications. For COLS patients and other chroniclers, who have great challenges in travelling from farms to research and consultations, there was an opportunity to stay at home, where it was safe and well. Of course they got care and care in addition. I am glad that we are running an electronic journal system that ensures that those who are going to treat you have access to important information, and not least that as a patient, only those who need to see your journal in the process will have access to it. Now it's also the way to get them taken that illegally sneaks in your journal, all the time one leaves electronic tracks. It wasn't like that when we had paper versions. Then there were records all around in medical offices and other places, and everyone who had access to those rooms also had access to the records. So I hope that the next step is that everyone should have electronic access to their own journal. It will give you, as a patient, better insight into your own health and help you make your own choices regarding your health. At the same time, as a patient, you will be affected by what is in your journal. The government has announced that there will be a growing awareness of electronic interaction in the health and care sector during 2012. This will, of course, be an important contribution to the implementation of the Interaction Reform. Today, there is a big difference between the hospitals and the municipalities, and it is important that we get good communication. Several places in the country where we have long distances are already well underway with the electronic interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, and we need to develop this further. The Minister’s reply to the Hagen Committee, which will be held in June, shows that the government will return to the follow-up to the committee’s proposals. It is good that we get an investigation not only focusing on technology, but also on how future health services should have a stronger user involvement and inclusion of the family. I'm glad that the interpellant has a special focus on addicts and chroniclers. These are groups that need to be raised, and good technology can give them a better quality of life. There are many municipalities that are doing well, and it is important that we support it and give them good conditions for further development. Good development of health technologies will address an ever-increasing need for health professionals. But most importantly, it will give those who need services, greater freedom and a safer everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1167	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. The right has long been concerned with using more technologies in the health and care sector. We want freedom of choice and dignity in care, and then we need to focus on welfare technology and innovation. New solutions open up new opportunities with a focus on quality and increased capacity. If we are to solve the challenges in the care sector in the future, we need to think again. We're facing an alert wave of older people, and it's going to be hard to recruit enough people to solve all the problems that need help. Most older people want to stay at home for as long as possible. Right-wing people want to provide the elderly at home with a safety package, so that their home situation is safe even if their health starts to falter. Technology is currently available in addition to the usual safety alarm system, which can contribute to greater self-driving, safety and safety. Smarthouse technology can reduce fire hazards and sensors can detect movements and prevent falls. Computer screens can help starting dents to remember the right tasks. All of this can help make it easier to live independently and live longer in owner-occupied dwellings. The development of new technologies can help to give older people and help them more dignity, more security and better quality of life. But it's not just about developing new technologies, it's also about using and exploiting more of the technology that we already have. We have today, among other things: beds which can turn over automatically while sleeping, which prevent bed ulcers, and which means that they do not need to be aroused by strangers at night. We also have GPS equipment that allows those with progressive dementia to live longer at home with their spouse, because it will be easier to track them if they do not find their way home. GPS can also be a good tool in nursing homes and in nursing homes. Often, the demented one actually feels locked up and cared for, which can result in frustration, anger and great anxiety. With GPS they can move freely, walk alone and experience a higher level of quality of life. The staff will find them if they go away. Modern communication equipment, as many have mentioned here, has also been developed that can be used more to enable sick people to consult doctors from home and to avoid tiring travel and waiting times in hospitals. The same applies to the nursing homes. Communication and consultation can be done between the hospital doctor and the hospital doctors, including through new technology, with X-rays, so that the sick elderly avoid being transported back and forth between the hospital and the hospital. What is important for us in the Right to point out when we talk about using more technologies in the health and care sector is, as the Council of State also said, that care technology can never replace people. We have to apply new technology with caution, because we don't want a cold society where good caregivers are replaced by robots and technical dolls. The ethical issues, which were also addressed by the Council of State, are also addressed to the right in relation to the use of welfare technologies. We believe it is important to use time to assess the boundaries between safety and monitoring. The protection of privacy must be safeguarded in a sound and respectful manner. The right is concerned about putting users in the centre, taking them on advice and listening to what they experience as good care services. Feedback from many people in need is that they want to use technical tools that can give them a greater degree of mastering and independence in everyday life. Being able to handle yourself, and not always feeling that you're a patient or a nurturing person, has something to do with quality of life. It is not a question of either – or of putting new technologies into practice. Employees in the care sector shall continue to perform tasks which can only be performed by competent personnel. The warm and good hands remain a trademark of care. Until now, municipalities themselves have been leading the way in implementing care technology at municipal level. Some municipalities have come a long way – this is also mentioned by the Council of State. Berum municipality, as I know, is one of them. The municipalities that have not begun to think in these paths have much to learn from the municipalities that are in the front. When you look at other European countries, such as the United Kingdom, Denmark and Scotland, have put national development and use of welfare technologies high on the agenda and gained more experience. Here I agree with the inter-pellant: it is too slow in this area in Norway. There's a lack of bet, and there's something random. The government has a job to do with getting more involved and making sure that there is more focus, and development, in this important area in all municipalities. I heard in the speech from the Council of State what I feel as great ambitions in this area: getting what the Hagen Committee is dealing with, on the agenda. Finally, I have a question: how do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1195	I have to say that when it comes to the last question, I am delighted to hear the Council of State's response in three minutes. I expect the Council of State has good answers to the big question. I think that important concepts have been developed which need to be included in this debate. The Minister pointed to the ethical, human and human dilemmas we face in technology. Of course, it is extremely important that we discuss this, because now there is a new biotechnology law, which in a way puts all the real issues at the forefront, so this is important. Therefore, my intention has been to speak only positively, precisely because I experience the prejudices that lie out. And I think those prejudices are in the process of blocking evolution, because we're not going to trigger the potential that actually exists. It doesn't mean that I don't see the dilemmas, that I'm not familiar with them and that I don't think there's got to be anything to do with them. I mean that to the highest degree. But to get there, I think we need to talk a lot more about using technology in public space. We have to point to the positive elements much more, and sometimes just show that we're all using technology every day, and that we're very satisfied with that technology. I want to tell you something. My parents were born early in the 1900s, and my mother and they got an early phone call. They lived in Oslo, and the whole family was deeply concerned, because now they would just sit at home. It would be a society where everyone just sat at home and called each other. It was terrible. That's what it would be, so they shouldn't have that phone. We have had the same debates on all the innovations that have come, such as television and data. That is why it is important that we also raise the positive elements in this. Nor is it the case that low-status groups do not benefit from the technology that exists today – rather on the contrary. I guess no one has any news as well of the acute medical technology as drug addicts. They are rescued from overdose deaths after overdose deaths — daily — because of that technology. My point when I raise the low-status groups is that the technology that helps them stay alive is different from the one that's going to help them live. Therefore, we need to focus on the technology that can help these patient groups and these low-status groups in society to adapt to, and use, the technology sector in the same way as others in the disease groups where there is more status both to work and to develop programmes. So I look forward to the messages coming, and the strategies to be laid down by the government. And then I expect that this with social inequalities will also be a topic in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1206	I would like to thank you once again for this interpellation being taken up, and also for the posts that have been, which I think have been very constructive. It's very good when the Storting can also gather about something that's really positive. So I think that the interpellant is quite right in that it has been associated with a lot of prejudices to use technologies – that one has looked more at the objections to than the benefits with. In some contexts, I guess that's right. In this context, I would like to commend the nurses' union, which has actually been quite good drivers for using technology, and have come up with many solutions that have done not least everyday better for those who work in the care sector. So I also think what you've been dealing with in the debate, the interpellant has focused on the mentally ill, on the elderly, that maybe that's where we think the technology is easy to implement. But in the case of mentally ill and drug addicts, this may not be the area where you think it's actually quite important to introduce a technology that does what the interpellant really does very well, it said: helps them live and cope with everyday life, which gets demanding among all the demands of these people. So that's really something we have to include in our work -- a very important element. Once again, I want to show that it is not that we are not going to do anything until the big message comes, but it is clear that it is important, both in terms of standardisation, in terms of methods, legislation and framework, ethical issues, etc. Then I was asked by the representative Bente Stein Mathisen how I had intended to do this. After all, I would like to show again that the investment in technology in the Ministry of Health and Health has now accelerated. It is especially about getting systems that can ‘talk together’. It is about the development of electronic patient records and a number of other systems to make health care simpler and safer. With regard to the use of care technology and the technology that comes – that is, what the Hagen Committee is looking at – we are going to take it further. I want to get back to it, except that, of course, in the big message, we're going to take all this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1219	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1225	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1233	During the debate, Mr Dale has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own survey report on a strengthened maritime education that follows on from the Marut and the Aasen Committee’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1264	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3 and 4, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on the establishment of national guidelines for mobile slaughterhouses in the long term.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1291	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for permanent legislation for slaughterhouses distinguishing requirements for permanent and mobile slaughterhouses.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1306	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount requested by the Government shall contribute to the granting of conditional authorisation to Mobile Laden AS for the purpose of continuing the slaughter.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1325	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:117 S [[2010-2011]] The President assumes that the Progress Party will now support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1333	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1352	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos put forward two proposals, no. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct Health South-East to transfer parts of Aker Hospital to Aarhus as a branch in line with Stensby Hospital and Ski Hospital.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that relevant buildings, crews and equipment from Aker Hospital are transferred to Ahus, so that Aarhus achieves increased capacity and adequate patient care.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1382	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-27.ana.ud1265e1394	There is no record.
