ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e68	Honourable co-representatives! Former coroner Georg Johan Jacobsen is dead, 82 years old. With Georg Jacobsen's death, the Labour Party has lost a faithful member and a committed politician. He sat on the Storting for two periods, from 1973 to 1981, when he chose to resign himself. In the first period he was a member of the Fisheries Committee. He never concealed that that committee position was not quite what he wanted. He enjoyed much better in his second great season when he ended up in the municipal committee. He soon became the housing policy spokesman for the population group. In all, he was concerned with the everyday problems of ordinary people. Before Georg Jacobsen was elected to the Stortinget, he had spent many years in Bergen City government and chairmanship. His local political heart issues were communication and housing policy. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Board of Housing, Vice-President of the Bergen Tomtegesellschaft, member of the Board of Directors of the Sporveis, the Board of Directors of the Bridge and Tunnel Company and the Board of Governors of the Husbanken. He was also Vice President of the Bergen Workers' Party. In 1977 he was one of Norway's delegates at the UN General Assembly. Former representatives who knew Georg Jacobsen characterized him as a bottom-solid politician, a warm and social person. Even from the beginning of his political career, Georg Jacobsen marked himself a strong spokesman for the weak in society. He had shone in his eye and was quick in his line. This property he knew to use when the temperature became high in the political debate. A sluggish comment was often what was needed to get a good dialogue in difficult matters. It's no secret that he had a great interest in sports. That is why he was also a well-informed professional worker in Bergens Arbeiderblad. He would like to be a little impatient when the group meetings on Wednesday evening lasted so long that he could not get to the mountain tram. He wasn't alone in that period. We thank Georg Jacobsen for his social exposure and long working day and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e87	The Workers' Party's Group has submitted an application for leave to the representative of Håkon Haugli on 26 and 27 May to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev, Ukraine. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Karin Yrvin, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e105	Karin Yrvin is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trond Helleland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e110	I am delighted, on behalf of representatives Michael Tetzschner, Siri A. Meling, Per-Christian Foss and myself, to make a proposal for a representative to ensure growth-enhancing labour immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e129	In the nomination, the Presidency shall promote proposals for the new Chairman and members of the Steering Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service — EOS Committee. According to the instructions adopted by the Storting, the Supervisory Board shall have seven members, all elected for a period of five years. This year, four of the members are in elections. In addition, the chairman of the panel, Helga Hernes, has asked for an exemption from the role of member and head of the EOS Committee from 1 July 2011. The members of the EOS Committee who are not in elections are Theo Koritzinsky and Wenche Elizabeth Arntzen. The Presidency has focused on identifying candidates with the necessary trust and integrity, both to the Grand Duchy, to the relevant services and to the public, and who also have extensive experience in society. As chairman of the EOS Committee, Eldbjørg Løwer is proposed. Løwer has previously been Minister of Defence and the Minister of Labour and Administration. In addition, Løwer has, among others: experience from a number of boards, and have been self-employed in consulting in the field of sound ownership and corporate governance, governance, ethics and social responsibility. Eldbjørg Løwer is proposed to be elected for the period from 1 July 2011 until 30 June 2014, which is the date on which the term of office of Helga Hernes would have expired. Mr Hans J. Røsjorde is proposed as a new member of the EOS Committee. Røsjorde has formerly been a magnificent representative; he has held office in Stortinget as Vice President, Deputy President and Chairman of the Defence Committee. Røsjorde retires in November and is proposed as a member of the EOS Committee for the period from 1 December 2011 to 30 June 2016. It is proposed that Knut Hanselmann continue as a member of the sample until Røsjorde enters. Nest leader, Svein Groennern, is proposed for the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2016. Re-elected for the same period, Trygve Harvold and Gunhild Eyering are also proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e144	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4233]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e160	There is no discussion. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Anders B. Werp, who thus has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes. And it's full access to lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e165	I can assure the President that I will not fill that speaking time. This case concerns proceedings for the winding-up of a limited liability company on the ground that it has been ordered to pay the costs. The case has its background from a decision in the Appeals Committee of the Supreme Court, which has determined that the requirement to ‘notify the company’ in the applicable Section 16-16 of the Share Act first paragraph implies that the notice of compulsory winding-up must have come to the company. According to today's rule, the first notification shall be sent directly to the company, with one month's response period. In most cases, the problem is solved by such an enquiry. The next notice shall appear in the electronic publication of notices in the Brønnøsund registers and in a short form in a newspaper commonly read at the company's place of business, with a period of four weeks within which to rectify the situation. If the relationship is not subsequently corrected, the company shall be compulsorily dissolved by the district court — which shall not overestimate the existence of the conditions for dissolution. The proposition proposes to amend the Shares Act, paragraphs 16–16 and the corresponding provisions, so that it would no longer be a condition for alerting the company. It would be sufficient for the rules on the transmission of alerts to be followed. The Ministry's assessment is that today's two warning system of dissolution adequately respects the legal certainty of the company, without requiring the first warning to be sent to the company. The reasons for disintegration lie in the department's view within the company's control and knowledge sphere – a factor that speaks of greater responsibility for the company. A single judicial committee agrees with the need for clarification of the law at this point. The majority of the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal. A minority of the Right and Advance Party promote their own proposal for a new wording in § 16-16 of the Act. The minority emphasises the balance made by the Appeals Committee of the Supreme Court between the consideration of legal certainty guarantees for the company and the consideration of simple and effective procedures in public bodies. Forced dissolution of a company is the use of power by the state. In the opinion of the minority, this use of power must be proportionate to the efforts made by public authorities in order to enable the victim to rectify any errors or to clarify misunderstandings. The minority refers to the hearing opinions of the Economic and Social Committee to the Ministry's hearing notes, where it is recommended that the notice be sent at the same time as the notice under paragraphs 16 to 16 of the second subparagraph. The minority supports this, and I support the minority's proposal in the vote. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and rapid and effective consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e191	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e194	Only cards from me and the Working Party page. This case is about the rules on warnings to limited liability companies that are at risk of being dissolved by coercion, and this is a rather dramatic situation for those involved. I'm not going to detail the changes that are now being proposed; it's been done in a good way by the case manager. Essentially, there is agreement on these changes. I would just like to stress the importance of effective and prudent warning campaigns, not least for the purposes of the companies with limited liability and the legal certainty of the companies to which they are subject. This is simply a process that can result in major interventions and decisions from the state side. Finally, I would just like to say that the Labour Party supports the proposal for changes to the Share Act and other laws and regulations. When it comes to minority proposals, the Labour Party does not support this, as we believe that this does not solve the problems and the challenges relate to alerting companies that meet the coercive resolution conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4233]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e221	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e230	In its alternative budget for the period 2006-2011, the Progress Party has proposed a cut of between 70 and 223 million. kr to the Customs and Fee Seat. In view of this, it is therefore difficult to take seriously the cost-intensive measures now proposed for the customs tariff. The proposed cuts will make it impossible to implement a strengthening of the customs tariff. It is directly naive to think that cut in this magnitude will not go beyond the control capacity of the building. In 2009, the Ministry of Finance presented a cut of 85 million. kr for the Customs and Fee Seat would mean. According to the Ministry, in the short term, such cuts would have to be taken mainly on salary costs, because other operating costs are largely tied up to fixed costs. This would necessarily involve a stoppage and redundancies. The Customs and Fee Directorate found that a cut of 85 million. NOK corresponds to 170 annual work. Substantial parts of the staff of the establishment carry out statutory tasks which cannot be neglected or delayed. The cuts proposed by the Progress Party in the 2009 budget would essentially have to hit the control frequency, because in this area the department has the possibility to adjust its activity in the short term. The floor uses some 700 annual works for border control and financial control. A reduction in control activity of this magnitude would have very unfortunate consequences. Work on preventing illegal movements of goods would be significantly reduced and it is assumed that reduced control activity would have a negative impact on tax revenue. Furthermore, a strong reduction in border controls would increase the threat to society’s security in areas such as drugs, terrorism, organised crime, environmental hazards, food safety, diseases and animal health. It is therefore a direct contradiction when the Progress Party writes in its comments that they have never proposed a reduction in the operational controls of the customs office relating to trafficking, drug imports, etc. The proposal to give the customs services the opportunity to use blue light is an example of how the Progress Party promotes individual proposals, without seeing the scope of the proposal. In my opinion, it is alarming that the proposers do not mention in a word the complexity of the proposal, but ask for a regulatory change, without prejudice to any issues relating to neither competence nor costs. Nor is there any mention of how the customs services should deal with the fact that they do not have the opportunity to use coercive substances. What do the proposers think customs should do after they have gone out with blue light? Should they be allowed to be apprehended? Is it, in other words, a wish from the Progressive Party that customs should become a new kind of police? In this case, the question will be whether more than one establishment is needed to exercise the same type of authority. Customs training should be amended accordingly. This is not affected by the proposals of the Progress Party. The same applies to the costs of these changes, which are also not a matter for the proposers. The Norwegian Toller Association believes it is very unfortunate that the blue light case has been included in the proposals of the Progress Party. They indicate that they have been working on this matter for over ten years. A thorough investigation is requested before the matter is dealt with in Stortinget. I also agree that the proposal deserves a thorough examination, in which all aspects of the matter are highlighted. That is why the Red-Green parties are asking that proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, the Government is sent for further consideration and assumes that the Progress Party agrees to such consideration of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e245	I really wanted the representative, Lillehovde, to have gone a little further into the concrete proposals. He was in the blue light case. We're going to discuss it. But if there was a willingness to actually do something about this problem, the government parties should definitely be able to agree to this. This proposal for a representative, which has been promoted here by the Progress Party, has recently been even more updated after the debate on Schengen has flared up. Not only has Italy and France had strong debates on this issue, but Greece and the new Schengen countries, such as Romania and Bulgaria, have also been involved. For the Progress Party, it is important to distinguish between the external and internal borders of Schengen and distinguish between refugee flows and criminal flows. In many of the debates that have been in public space lately, this has not always been the case. Now this should not be a debate on Schengen cooperation, but it is improper that our proposal for a representative addresses issues that go hand in hand with some of the challenges we see in the flow of crime between Schengen countries. We've seen a six-fold increase in winning crime committed by non-residents in the last ten years. 60 pst. organised crime is committed by persons from the Baltic countries. We see that Norway, which has an open society, good social benefits and very good standards of prisons, attracts criminals like a magnet. In addition, penalties are relatively low and police resources are limited. Then it is necessary to intensify the work done at the border crossings of the country. The Customs Authority is in practice the only control body at Norwegian border crossings at the internal Schengen border, which the State Council itself confirms in its reply to the Committee. Then it is important that we provide these tools to meet the need we have to safeguard the security of the state and limit cross-border crime. Denmark has met with scepticism since a few days ago decided to strengthen control at its internal borders. The Danish authorities claim that it is about intensifying customs controls on goods – and not personal checks. Inside this is what the Danish call the Norwegian model, which our Minister of Justice has also pointed out in the media. For the customs office has the right to stop anyone crossing the border, and therefore also ask for ID papers. This right shall be governed by Chapter 13 of the Customs Act and by its provisions. As a result, for Norway, the customs service revealed about a quarter of the total. 1 200 persons in 2010, who were suspected of illegal entry or immigration. Half of these had either insecure or forged identity or were completely without ID papers. These were left — often, not always — to themselves at the border with a request to report to the Police Foreign Unit. I notice that there is a reluctance to apply biometrics on the frontier. If we had a system that caught up with these people who are unable to see who they are, this would have helped significantly to detect possible crime. The new personal control assistance facility provided to the customs office by the Foreign Affairs Act must be able to be used to strengthen operational cooperation at the border with, for example, access to relevant electronic registers. As it works today, this is time-consuming and resource-consuming. I hear the arguments of the other parties on proposal No. 2, but this is about putting in place an effective interaction on the border. The police are often not present, there are no resources to hold people to be checked more closely, and therefore the time aspect is very important. Therefore, this is not a discussion about what the customs services should have access to, but about how. I note that the Minister of Justice, in his response to the Committee, opens up increased reciprocity in the cooperation between customs and police, for example. by increasing the involvement of the police in customs controls. This is very positive. But that also means that by assigning more tasks to the police, it also has to be accompanied by resources, otherwise we can look far beyond this desired cooperation. Furthermore, I see that the Minister of Justice, in his response, bases several of the opinions on the external border of Schengen, a border Norway financially contributes strongly to strengthening through Frontex. However, this proposal for a representative is primarily aimed at the internal border of Schengen and the challenges we face with the free movement of persons, goods and services, and not least of crime. I take the positive attitude that the government parties have for proposal 7, the blue light case, and notice that after several years of investigations, the Ministry of Finance finally contacted the Ministry of Justice. That's a good promise. I am therefore addressing our proposals that we are promoting alone as well as the proposal that we are promoting together with the Right. I also draw attention to the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber, and promote this as an additional proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e289	Then the representative Åse Michaelsen addressed the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e292	Right will first praise the customs service for the important and good job they do. They can show good results with what we can call relatively limited resources in the department. Cross-border crime is an ever-increasing challenge, which has been debated and presented on repeated occasions. I show you in this context, among other things. that the right has addressed this by repeated representative proposals, and the right has also drawn up its own crimping plan, where this is a prominent point. The right has also – in the past – promoted its own proposal on the fight against organised crime, which we are increasingly seeing becoming cross-border. Not least, the Right will point to the treatment recently implemented by the Stortinget in the paper on organised crime. The right is very satisfied with the fact that a total amount of money came together to say all the points in that big message. It shows strength, and it underlines that the Storting is also concerned with cross-border crime. The right will also point out that the tariff rate is not, of course, alone to meet these challenges. The interaction and cooperation with the police are crucial for success, and there we point from the Right to our budget proposals, which strengthen the police's work on this point as well. A few weeks ago, we had a thorough and intense debate in Stortinget on the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive and on the storage of traffic data. This resulted in a good agreement – in the opinion of the Right – between our party and the Workers' Party, which ensures a fair fight against crime across borders, together with a proper protection of privacy. That is why I also allow myself to express some surprise at some of the proposals made by the proposers in this matter. What in the vote is proposal No. 2 and 3 point to measures that are quite intrusive in terms of privacy – the same data protection as was the main reason for proposers to go against the Data Storage Directive. So we're wondering about that approach, but at the same time we'll praise the proposers for addressing an important topic that underpins the relationship between crime prevention and that it is increasingly happening across national borders, and that we need to constantly think about how we meet these challenges. The right-wing relationship and the presentation of the various proposals by the proposers are set out in the comments in the vote. Finally, I would like to address in particular this by giving the customs vehicle the status of an exclamation vehicle. We have tabled our own proposal which is somewhat different from the wording of the rapporteurs on this point, proposal No. 9 in the setting. I would ask that that proposal be submitted to the government for further consideration. In the opinion of the Right, our proposal takes on board – in a nuanced way – an approach to the issue that provides room for thorough assessments, but at the same time gives a clear signal that, at least from the Right, we want a clear conclusion and that that conclusion comes quickly. So I'm asking for it to be transmitted to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e311	Then the representative Anders B. Werp has taken up proposal No. 9 and at the same time requested that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e314	I have learned both in my personal life and in politics that there are a lot of people who want to do – you have good intentions, good wishes – but everything has to be put in a framework where the two columns of revenue and expenditure have to match. If they don't, it'll eventually go wrong. I am therefore very pleased to be part of a government that has a clean budget run, where on the one hand we are fighting crime in this field, and on the other hand we have a clean budget coverage on everything. The progress party has good intentions, they must have, but then there is something missing in the accounts. I and several others have now gone back and looked into the budgets, and we see that if we add together the cuts to the customs services in the budgets of the Progress Party from 2006 to 2011, it will be more than 1 billion. kr. It would be wrong for me to say that they will cut 1 billion. kr. Obviously, it's for every year they have different cuts, but at the highest they would cut 223 million. kr to customs. That is my question: when the Progress Party is promoting such comprehensive proposals, which will cost – they must also count on it to cost – should I count on the Progress Party now to put money on the table in connection with the revised national budget, or is it to be expected that next year's budget will increase the customs sector's budget instead of cuts, which the Progress Party has consistently proposed in the last six years? I hope there's an answer to this. So it's like Michaelsen's representative was in a lot of things, but without drawing any conclusions. The reflections were there, but there was no conclusion. Denmark has now taken a different position with regard to its border with Germany and Sweden. That was what Michaelsen's representative reflected on. She said it was free flow of crime from Baltic countries, etc., and therefore Denmark has introduced a new line. But what does that mean? What is the conclusion? Does this mean that the Progress Party wants to take the same position as Denmark? Does that mean that the Progress Party wants to terminate the Schengen Agreement? Or does that mean that there are bits of the inserted line in Denmark that the Progress Party wants to adopt? I expect other representatives from the Progress Party, or Michaelsen, to come to the debate later and tell Stortinget what the conclusion is of the reflections she made around Denmark's introduction of a new line in terms of Schengen cooperation and border control.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e323	First, I would like to congratulate the proposers for initiative and focus on an important issue – on the customs work and the job they can do to combat crime at the border. It's important. But at the same time, I have to say from the Christian People's Party that we are a little curious about some of the proposals, because several of them rock in clear privacy. And this representative proposal might show that there will be fewer and fewer members of the privacy alliance. Privacy is under pressure and new technologies allow for increased control, registration and monitoring. New technologies always provide new opportunities. But it is the role of politicians to limit technology when there are conflicts of interest, like here, against privacy. I am sceptical and critical of the ever more extensive monitoring, registration and control. The more information is stored, the more opportunities it offers for misuse and information leakage. What guarantees do we have that information is not misused? The growth of the information society requires that we have a clear and principled view of this: what is human dignity? What are the rights of individual citizens? How do we relate to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy? Now border controls are on the agenda. Last time it was the Data Storage Directive that backed up some of our privacy principles. We are still faced with similar issues. New things will come up. In many cases, there will be good reasons for more stringent controls, and considerations must always be weighed. But if we don't have a conscious relationship with privacy principles, we'll almost go on ignoring the basic protection of privacy. The resistance to individual items may be interpreted by some as tile nailing. But it's not! Because that's the sum of things that make us gradually and almost inconspicuously slip in the wrong direction. The sum of good intentions can make it go in a direction that no one wants, and into a society where human dignity is violated. The Christian People's Party is for any proposal that can release resources for the police, be it more stringent alcohol laws or gift periods, leave paperwork to civilians with education in the field, or more police officers and police students. That is why we are also in favour of the proposal to extend the scope of the customs service to simplify the provision of services, in order to streamline the procedure and release resources for the police. In addition, we also welcome your proposal for greater transparency on the assessments made by the government of the customs services' need to use their vehicles as emergency vehicles. That is why the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. I. by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 9, from the right, a suggestion which I understand is being transmitted, and it is Christian People's Party pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e340	The government has promoted a number of measures in the fight against organised, cross-border crime and the crime we relate in particular to the activity of the customs office and, not least, the activity of the police, especially in the border districts. There is also the background to which the representative, Mr Werp, was concerned, that this has a central role to play in the fight against organised crime and in the actions outlined in that work. I want to start positively, because there's good reason to acknowledge the Storting's treatment of the measures against organized crime, not only because it's good that we manage to gather around it, but also because we already see very good results of that kind of action. I think the agency outside has perceived the political signal very clearly, because the politicians in the Stortinget have managed to gather around very important areas of activity. So we see a significant fall in crime committed by non-nationals in Norway, particularly the peak in 2009, the gross burglaries, which are now, fortunately, halved in several districts. I need to go with everyone to give recognition to the police for the job they've done. I believe that we often overfocus on what goes wrong, but to be stimulated for further work one needs to hear that it is a solid work. I visited the Grensenlös project this day. It's amazing to see that within the resources you have, you can reorganize an enterprise that takes exactly this kind of mobile profit crime and that is at the heart of the intentions of the proposers. I would also like to point out that with regard to the measures taken by the government, in particular relating to Eastfold police districts and, in part, to Hedmark police districts, it is precisely in order to ensure a more active police role against the customs office. I mean, that's the way to go. I am pleased to note that the Danish agreement on extended customs control points to the Norwegian experience and, in many ways, to the Norwegian thinking about this. With regard to the concrete proposals put forward by some of the representatives of the Progress Party, there are several of the measures we are already in the process of. I show you, among other things: the establishment of more formalised cooperation between customs and police, the roll-out of readers – scanners – for the control of electronic ID documents, inter alia. In this way I see the proposal bearing the mark of an attempt to turn open doors. I would also like to refer to Mr Grete Faremo's letter of 14 March of reply at the time, which details the individual proposals. And then finally, I'll just give you some considerations about what's the main line of the proposal, which also makes me wonder. I fully share the surprise of Mr Werp's representative about the proposals of the Progress Party, in particular with regard to the privacy that was actively debated when it was decided to vote against what might be the most important measure for cross-border crime, namely that the police have the opportunity to enter into stored traffic data. So it's one of the most important measures the Grensenlös project pointed to, and the reason why we've managed to bring crime down. Then I see that the Progress Party almost every day after making the Data Storage Directive decision, has run from its privacy positions, whether it's about DNA-testing large groups of people with no specific definition, or what's now on the table. That's weird. Where did privacy go? The second thing that is problematic in this matter – I largely share the opinion of the representative Michaelsen – is that to assign more tasks to the police, you are dependent on, as she said in her statement, that it must follow resources. Yes, that is why the Stortinge decided to allocate more resources to the border police controls in 2009 and 2010. But it's strange that when you go to work so actively and really impose the customs tariff on a lot more tasks, the answer is that you cut the resources one year by over 200 million. kr and the last year with 70 million. kr. What is it that makes the customs office need no more resources when assigned to tasks, while the police have always done so? I believe that this proposal would not be feasible if we were to base the draft budget of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e365	We see that something is happening today that I might call a release of people who have been stopped at the border in case of suspicion of illegal entry/immigration. The Progress Party believes that it is totally unsustainable that they are left to themselves and told to report – especially against Oslo. What will the Minister of Justice do to get rid of this very thing – that you do not have a release of people suspected of illegal entry and who cannot identify themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e370	Now I also note that the representative Michaelsen does not choose to comment on what has been the main axis of the debate and bring it into line: what makes the customs office not need more resources when they get new tasks – they risk significantly cutbacks if the Progress Party comes to power – and that it is the opposite of the police? That's what we choose to do with the police tasks, which prevent the release that Michaelsen, the representative, is making of it. It was one of the main reasons for the large border package, which the Progress Party – and all other parties – helped to support in the budget, which contributed to police control, and which helped not to send people on the bus from the border in Eastfold and into Oslo. The best answer I can give there is in such a way that one of the reasons we gave more money to get more crews in Eastfold was just to strengthen the police's border control further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e375	When we make a proposal, it will lead the way for further consideration, both of the revised budget and of the ordinary budget, which we have before Christmas. Looking back at the budgets that the Progress Party has had with regard to customs, which are under the Ministry of Finance, they are primarily in relation to improving the efficiency of the tax and customs sector, where we believe there are great opportunities to change. As for the operative part, we believe that the customs services, on their part, need funds, of course, but they also need to be able to have a system that ensures synergy between the police and customs at the border. So a little bit to what the minister's taking up. It's not just the border in Eastfold and the road towards Oslo that's important, because there are other borders in the country where there are many coming in. I come from South Africa, and we see that many come into the port of Kristiansand, for example. There are no similar opportunities to have enough police present. What will the minister do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e384	The government's great commitment to getting more police officers continues. There is no Norwegian government that has trained more policemen than we have done, and I am very happy that some and ninety percent of those we have now graduated are actually out in police work. It is an incredibly important measure to be able to carry out border controls as well. But it's not to hide that in the case of Eastfold and especially the south of Hedmark, that's where we have the big border traffic, which makes us totally dependent on getting an extraordinary bet. Then I have to say once again that if the Progress Party is to build credibility in fighting this type of crime, one has to leave a year-long line, where both taxes and other types of control mechanisms in society that are very important for taking the cash flows. And not least, if you want credibility in strengthening the customs service, you can't cut the one year with nearly 400 posts and the last year with 185, which the representative Lillehove had in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e391	Now I want to enter into the Schengen Agreement. It is an important part of this proposal, and it has been even more updated in the last few days and weeks. I have understood that the Minister of Justice is very clear that the agreement is being maintained as it is today, but we see the challenge that, among other things, is. The Norwegian Police Association, together with its colleagues in Sweden and Denmark, has pointed out that we need to do some new work here. What action will the Minister of Justice himself take, in line with the wishes of the police in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e396	First of all, with regard to the Joint Police Association's statement on border control, it is somewhat unclear to me what the Joint Police Association really wants. With regard to the description of the crime scene, I think I will also be somewhat cautious – as opposed to the League of Police – in describing almost 80 pst. of this kind of crime coming from the Baltic. I just needed to say that. We haven't found that cover for, just so that's said. So I believe that what the Danes are doing, by pointing to an enhanced customs control, is very much a lot of the work that Norway has done. One key to reversing this crime is precisely what the police are currently doing. Reinforcement of control activity and activity in border areas, strengthening cooperation with customs, I have very much faith in, as well as using technology in full and not doing as the Progress Party, the Data Storage Directive is voting down. It is now one of the most important tools for the police to catch, among other things. those who are behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e405	I hear the Minister of Justice is surprised. I am particularly surprised that the Minister of Justice is still not able to see the difference in monitoring and controlling individual suspects, as opposed to DLD, who are to monitor all individuals throughout Norway. There's a significant difference, and there's nothing new. I hear the Minister of Justice is talking about credibility. I am not so sure that this government has such great credibility in terms of border control and the fight against organized crime. I'm not being erased. Then it is that the vast majority of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting here are proposals to the government. Then it's up to the government to tell the Storting afterwards, if these proposals are adopted, if there's any cost of it. If that's not the case, the job of Stortinget will be completely different in the future, if you want to base the Minister of Justice's economy and budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e414	The progress party is missing 100 pst. credibility in this matter. What to do in budgetary situations must be seen when proposing active measures. I just wonder what would be the comment if I had put forward a proposal in Stortinget that we should cut the police budgets by up to 200 million. NOK, while I made a sandwich list of new assignments. It seems to me that it would have aroused some kind of activity on the part of the Progress Party. I have three advices for the Progress Party if you want to build credibility in combating border crime: don't make as drastic cuts in customs as you suggest. Don't shut down the call-out police, which is now one of the most important mobile instruments we have in order to fight back when there are gangs across borders. Don't do it, as it says in the Principal Programme of the Progress Party. Take a reassessment of data storage. Listen to what the police say about the importance of traffic data in reversing this crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e421	I just want to immediately establish that all three of these advices I push away. Because it turns out that the Minister of Justice is going to go wrong. The Minister of Justice knows very well what the Progress Party is doing with the U.S. police force. After all, the Minister of Justice is partly in the process of doing so himself – transferring several tasks in the fight against crime, to the police of the armed forces – so that's where the Minister of Justice has followed us. As far as credibility is concerned, this government has less and less credibility in putting in place the right measures to combat organised crime with customs control. Then it is that this government has actually done what they are accusing the Advance Party of – one has imagined the Norwegian people that they have given the police enough resources, while at the same time giving the police 100-110 new tasks, which are not related. The Progress Party will propose new measures to the Government. If they cost money, it's up to the Minister of Justice to tell Stortinget what it costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e432	I record that the Progress Party, when confronted with the harsh reality, uses the characteristics of the variety, which is now being made by Sandberg, that we are almost at risk of untruth. As far as the cuts in the customs tariff are concerned, everyone can read it. It is stated in the budget papers for the last few years. They've been on something over 200 million. Now it's 70 million. kr, as far as I saw in the last document. You can't run from it, and you shouldn't run from it. You have to take responsibility for that. If you get in position, at least you have to take responsibility for it. With regard to the issue of the emergency police, I have read the principal programme for the Progress Party – that is, well until 2013 – where you want to put it down and take the tasks from the U.S. police to the local police. We don't. We want to strengthen the U.S. police force. If Sandberg is not familiar with the princely program, he must read it. The third is absolutely true. I clearly understand that the Progress Party chose to vote against the Data Storage Directive and not give the police what they say is one of the most important means of combating this crime – transparency in traffic data. You can't run away from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e443	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e447	It is an important debate we have now, but how important it is, one could wonder when one listened to the P4 news today early on, about the spirit family in the garden of Prime Minister's dwelling. Then this debate gets a slightly different dimension. But in any case, an effective fight against organised crime depends on good cooperation between customs and police. Then we know that the police are struggling with their resources and their organization, and that it's not quite optimal, to say it mildly. In carrying out their duties, the customs authorities often rely on police assistance, which in several cases turns out to be difficult. It may be beneficial that the customs services have some extended powers and have the opportunity to follow those who try to escape customs controls – i.e. that they have the opportunity to move out with blue light and are not suspected of being highway robbers when they come and stop people who have run past customs controls. When I heard the representative from Lillehoves, I was a little in doubt about what the Workers' Party really means. For me, a transmission proposal is in a way a condolences to the proposal, and that it should be further worked on, but the argument to Lillehovde was quite the opposite. He had no sense of proposal at all. He also said that such a proposal would require a thorough investigation. Ten years of investigation is reasonably thorough for me. Ten years of investigation into whether the customs tariff should be able to carry a blue-lighted vehicle is basically a long investigation, and there is now a new investigation going on to see if this can be done. How long does the representative Lillehovde think they are going to investigate this issue? Now we have to get it on the table. Now something has to be done to give the customs tariff the opportunities they have to do their job, because the police have no resources and have no organisation to assist. Finally, regarding privacy: Our measures in paragraphs 2 and 3 apply in case of suspicion. The customs authorities shall have the possibility to enter the data register in case of suspicion and shall have the possibility to carry out a body scan in case of suspicion. I'm going to say that body scan is a little bit better than the methods used today. There should be no doubt about that. I'm not going to say how those methods are done, but body scanning is at least a much better way to do it. So finally, the representative Chaudhry is proud to be ‘a part of a government’. I didn't know that Chaudhry had changed jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e460	The most important thing to focus on is that the police and customs get closer cooperation, that they pay much more attention to each other, and that they get to use much more the same tools. It doesn't necessarily mean that the customs office gets more authority, but I think that in some areas it is necessary. That is why we should perhaps also include some words in this debate and have had a little discussion about structure. Because I think the structure that police districts have up against customs is unfortunate. You might want to see it in the future, at least when you're dealing with issues related to the structure of the police. Then I can't help myself, for the representative Chaudhry – and even the Minister of Justice – actually add up the cuts that the Progress Party has promoted in its alternative state budgets over several years. If that's what's to be taken into account, then the customs debt is soon due to the Advance Party, if that's how you're going to budget and keep accounts. When we don't get through for a year, we suggest almost the same cuts next time. You can't add up the suggestions for cut over five years, like Chaudhry does, and then make it clear that we've cut 1.1 billion. kr. I hope the government doesn't run that kind of budgeting, because of course it's hopeless. Everyone understands that. It is also the case that the proposals that we are promoting here do not ignore – and I can almost say so as to establish it – will cost money both on the equipment side and on the operational side of the customs tariff. But we have no reason, when we promote these proposals to the government, to budget them. But if these proposals are adopted, I expect the government to provide a budget for it, and that's when we discuss the cost of it. That the Progress Party in this year's budget has cut 70 million. kr to the customs office of 1.5 br. NOK – a little over 4 pst. Cut – as much as I think efficiency can be found within the customs system, just as it exists in all public agencies. And we've been careful with the customs rate in terms of cuts in bureaucracy and other things within other parts of the public. I believe that most of the proposals that the Progress Party is making today will be put in a different package at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e471	I can be bad in Norwegian, but I can't be so bad in Norwegian that the head of the Justice Committee doesn't hear what I'm saying. I would ask him to read the minutes of the debate. I said they've cut a total of 1 billion. kr, and that I should not be unreasonable. And I'll tell you that it would be wrong for me to say that they've cut 1 billion. kr in total for one year's budget. I gave clear figures: 223 million. kr is the highest cut in the customs budget of one year – it was in 2008. 70 million. kr is the smallest and is for the current year. So my question is unanswered. None of the party representatives have responded. Is there any money coming to customs now in the context of the revised or next year's budget? Does it? That question can be answered very easily. If there is no answer, or if the answer is that there is no money, I would very much like to know: how are we going to finance the sandwich list proposed by the Progress Party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e476	In my previous post, I asked the Workers' Party and Lillehovde about what their intentions really are in proposing that our proposal for blue light be transmitted without any actual treatment. I would like to have an answer to that question, because if it is the case that the Workers' Party is not interested in seeing the possibility of such a solution that the customs tariff can use blue light and does not agree with the intentions of the proposal, it is also no good for the Progress Party to agree that there should be a transmission proposal. As I said in my previous post: a transmission proposal is in a way a welcome to the intentions of a proposal. If those intentions are not there, I see no reason why we should agree to convert them into a transmission proposal. Then we will have a substantive discussion of the proposal. The representative Lillehödde was also concerned that the Directorate for Customs and Fees carries out a number of statutory tasks that cannot be omitted or deferred. I hope that the representative Lillehovde will also have it with us when we are going to grant funds to the municipalities of school and care for the elderly, which are also statutory tasks, and which cannot be said to be the main priority areas of this government. The representative Chaudhry asked if there would be any money from the Progress Party in connection with the revision. For me, the revised budget is a budget that will take up new things and compensate for new things that have happened since the budget was presented. I can't see that the situation for the customs tariff is particularly new, but the Progress Party will also ensure that, when we get to our actions and new tasks that the customs services are going to have, it is well funded. It has therefore not been said that the Customs and Fee Directorate is not mature to be more efficient, as the representative Sandberg was also involved. With regard to the good proposals and good intentions of the Progress Party, we will also ensure that the customs tariff receives the resources it needs, like the police, in order to carry out its tasks. Then I hope that I can get an answer to my question to the representative Lillehåvde and the Workers' Party if the Workers' Party agrees with the intentions of the proposal on the use of blue light.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e487	Now I think maybe more soon should take a time-out here. Sometimes debates take a little off. It is possible that I followed very poorly, but unlike others, I have not participated with life and lust in the debate. But I actually perceive it your way that both proposal No. 8 and proposal No. 9, which is proposed, is accepted with relatively open arms of the government parties. I choose to at least base it. You don't start scratching in the proceedings. What must be the expectation of the Storting in terms of transmission is that it is actually being investigated fairly quickly based on what has been going on for very many years. I think we should perhaps approach the end of this debate. I choose to interpret the government parties to the point that they intend to take this seriously. So to merge cut. There are very many of the Biggest games that add up. I have experienced quite many times here that both the one and the other combine the annual budget increases to a large pot in election times to make sure that you appear to be the best possible. Then I think in such a debate we should remember a little what we discussed a few weeks ago about organized crime, where we all agreed that it is important that we stand together on something. I think we should remember some of that debate as we now start working on what I would call – perhaps unparliamentary, I'm not sure if it's in the big book – tile nailing, that we actually remember that debate, and what we said at the time. But one thing I could imagine we were looking at later is what the Progress Party is talking about: to what extent is the bureaucracy in customs perfect? I haven't seen anything about where you're going to cut, what concrete things are too bureaucratic. But I think that, like what the government is doing on the police side, where you're busy spending the money better, we should also be concerned that the customs department spends the money they have in the best possible way. I take it for granted that the government, by coordinating both the Ministry of Finance's relationship with customs and the Ministry of Justice's relationship with the same customs department, looks at it. So I guess something good has come out of the debate, but I wish you could look more at the real content of what the customs department is doing, rather than discussing the pluses and minuses in the way you've done now the last quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e500	I understand that the representative Ørsal Johansen is indignant both about my post and the attitudes I expressed in my post. That's the way it is when you're confronted with your own policies, it can be a little uncomfortable when it's not completely related, that reality is a little bit different from what it's added up to. The representative, Ørsal Johansen, asked for a clear answer about my position on the use of blue light. When we go in to submit the proposal, it is precisely for clarification and an investigation on the use of blue light. In fact, this work has taken a very long time. The signal about this investigation was actually given in 2006 and is not yet completed. I have to admit that there is a lot of time spent on it, but after this debate I hope that it will go ahead. Then you have to set a blue light or not blue light. . There is nothing more to say about this, other than that of course we also support the transmission of the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e507	I'll be the first to complain. I have probably overheard Mr Chaudhry's specificity, and I am deeply sorry about that. But I registered that the Minister of Justice also tried to do the same exercise, by saying that we cut 200 million. NOK 1 year and SEK 70 million. kr next year and add it up. It'll be dramatic cut. I'll try not to prolong the debate. But it is clear that when one points to what was agreed in the Justice Committee and the Grand Duchy just a short time ago when it was about the fight against organised crime, this package from the Progress Party is, of course, a part of it, and it may be the most important area as well. If we're going to go ahead in combating organized crime of different character, we're going to have to do something about our border control in different ways. To the representative Lillehovde: Then we just have to admit that yes, we have different understanding of reality in the Labour Party and the Advancement Party. We may be a little bit more impatient than the Workers' Party is, and then it's like we're thinking new, and we're afraid to challenge it. Then I think, as I said in my post, that these proposals are somehow being intrigued by the government as well. So it doesn't have to be this government that promotes it in another wrapper. It could be another government, of course. But I am sure that at some point this will be necessary, even in the light of the debate that the representative Åse Michaelsen referred to, which is taking place in Europe. At the invitation of the representative, Mr Chaudhry, who asks whether there will be any money in the context of the revision, I can say that if the proposals of the Progress Party are adopted here today, I will also ensure that it is financed, because we have not yet achieved the objectives revised. We operate and negotiate, also internally in our party. But it is clear that if these proposals are adopted today, and it turns out that it costs money, I will ensure that it is included in the revised budget, too, so that Chaudhry is financed, if that is how he wants to support some of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e518	Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e521	I don't intend to let the Advance Party get away so cheaply. Representative Ørsal Johansen goes to the pulpit and says that if there's any new stuff, we're going to bring money. Eight proposals are promoted, and nothing is new, nothing costs. Is this the Christmas party? Then you say that these are good suggestions and good intentions. Then I understand that he believes that these are good suggestions and good intentions, but it costs nothing. Then the committee leader comes from the Progress Party – which is interesting – and says, if it turns out it costs, we're going to put new money on the table. Does this mean that the Progress Party does not even know how much their proposal costs? They only promote proposals without knowing what they cost, and thus they also promote proposals without having coverage. I mean, a party as big as the Progress Party can't play with people, they can't just throw blues in people's eyes. Here you have to make suggestions, which are also calculated what costs, and then you have to tell us where to get the money from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e530	What makes me take the floor is the intervention of the representative Ørsal Johansen, who almost keeps talking down the police's efforts in these days, saying that you almost fail, and it's the customs department that has to sort of do this. I want to do the opposite, just so it doesn't get an impression in this room, first of all because I think the police officers and women who are now working outside, quite actively – to put this back on – deserve a different kind of characteristic than what this debate can give an impression of. So this is an incredible story, where Oslo police districts, Asker and Bærum, Vestfold, Telemark, Søndre Buskerud and many other police districts show that good results are now being achieved. The fact that there is a decline in profit-criminalism – especially in the case of those crossing borders – here in Oslo in the case of gross villa invasions, with almost 50 pst., and that that decline seems to continue, is fantastic. We can't, with respect for the employees we have in the outer room, almost characterize it as bad police work. I choose to stand up for those policemen. Then I would also say that there has never been any attempt by me to sum up the cuts. But the fact that you cut so much every year in the customs department shows a line in the party's policy, a lack of will and understanding of how important the control bodies actually are, and then you can't adorn yourself with playful suggestions in the Stortinget. You have to take responsibility at all times. One of the most important tools, in my opinion, to achieve good cooperation between police and customs is, of course, the mobile police. That is why I think it is strange to see today the significant results that the U.S. police are contributing to, that the Progress Party wants to do something different with the U.S. police than what we are actually doing. Helping the Chair of the Judicial Committee: The Action Programme of the Advance Party, on page 26, also states that ‘the task of the ERC should be transferred to the local police districts’. It's really going in the opposite direction, because we now have a mobile strength that is an important part of what we've called the effort force, which can be deployed, for example. has a mobile raid in Telemark. That's why I think it's going to be, to say the least, talking to more tongues when at one moment you say that you need to strengthen your efforts and be more ‘hands-on’ in terms of this type of crime, while at the same time helping to eliminate what is perhaps one of the most important mobile efforts we have, namely the printing police.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e543	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e547	Then the Minister of Justice got it fixed. There is nothing in the principles of the Progress Party that we should put down the policy of blackmail. But on the other hand, it is now in our action programme, which mentions that we want to use the resources in a different way – that is quite correct. So the Minister of Justice allows himself to interpret Ørsal Johansen's representative in a totally wrong way, to put it mildly. I believe that the representative Ørsal Johansen has full support in the police districts as to the fact that the police cannot do an optimal job based on the resources they have. We get reports of that every day. Then the Minister of Justice has a different sense of reality of it, and I respect that. To the representative, Mr Chaudhry, there are, therefore, few exceptions to budgets and, outside the scope of the revision, proposals with a budget. There should have been a strange process in this house if we were to add a budget with every suggestion. That's what you do on the big occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e556	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 4235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e572	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e581	Today, we are considering a proposal for a representative to amend the Norwegian authorities' handling of child-removal issues. There are representatives from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progress Party who have put forward the proposals, and I would like to begin by commending the representatives for putting a very important issue on the agenda. I also want to commend the representatives for being impatient. For the sake of the children and for the parent who is left, we need the impatience of the opposition, and we need all the constructive debate we can get. I would also like to stress that the government is working intensively and well with these matters. The Committee's position and the Minister of Justice's letter to the Committee refer to many measures undertaken by the Government, often with broad support here in the UK. It is important in this debate to be aware that child Abduction cases are complex issues. Globalisation has made the world less, we live in a multicultural society, and it is easier today to find love across borders. It's in a lot of ways a very nice thing, but we're facing challenges the day a parent abducts the child out of the country. International child Abduction is intended to deal with legislation and legal culture in at least two countries, and in cases where children are abducted to countries that have not acceded to the Hague Convention, it is even more difficult for Norwegian authorities to resolve matters. The Committee stresses the importance of finding effective means of preventing child abortion and measures to speed up the return of the child. The representative's proposal contains a number of financial measures and the Committee unanimously endorses the proposal to stop the child's contribution to the abductor. We need to make sure that abducting children never pays off, thus helping to prevent abductions or helping the child return quickly. It is also on this basis that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion, has sent a proposal on the cessation of public benefits and child contributions at the hearing. The proposal has received broad support from the Hearing Officers, and there is good reason to believe that the proposal will also receive broad support here in the Storting. But the proposal needs to be adjusted in some areas, because we need to take individual considerations into account in these types of matters, in order to safeguard human rights and our obligations under international conventions. That is why there is an overall committee that meets a legislative proposal, which is promised by the government. It is also worth mentioning that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in the consultation paper goes beyond the proposal we have to deal with here today, because, in addition to stopping child welfare, one will also look at a stop of other public benefits, just to make it even more effective. Then I would like to comment on the proposals where there is disagreement. I will explain the majority's view, and I expect the representatives of the other parties to make their views known. With regard to the proposal to stop the collection by the State on behalf of the kidnapper, the Progress Party and the Right shall maintain its proposal. But I want to venture on the claim that here, at best, there are degrees of disagreement. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality rightly supports the proposal sent at the hearing in order to ensure that the child contribution is normally required because the parent liable for the contribution still has a responsibility for the child. But it is suggested that payments be withheld until the child-removal situation is resolved. This means that the procedure is somewhat different from that contained in the draft representative, but the result will be the same, namely that child-rearers will not have access to the contribution. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal to seize Norwegian property as a criminal offence. We believe that stopping financial benefits and child contributions will be a more appropriate and far more effective instrument. It is then that the proposal to establish a Council to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities is also not supported. It has its background in the fact that we already have a national and a Nordic cooperation forum, and that is what the majority, like the Minister of Justice, believes. At the end of the day, I want to repeat the call that a unanimous committee is also included in the vote, and that is the call for all parents who experience child Abduction from Norway to contact the Norwegian authorities. It is important to identify any number of darknesses, but it is also important for the necessary effort to be put in place quickly and for us to have an effective resolution of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e607	I would first of all like to thank the case rapporteur, the representative, Mr Håheim, for the praise that the proposers receive for their proposals, and not least for the rapporteur's understanding of the impatience that we, as proposers, have in such matters as this. As the rapporteur now pointed out, it is an extremely important matter for us to debate here. That is why I am very pleased that there is such a consensus on the matter, at least as regards the intentions of the proposals and the issues raised in the matter. There are major challenges in this matter. As the rapporteur also pointed out: love across borders is not allowed us to do so much with it. There may be a lot of positive about it, but it also creates some challenges when it ends the love relationship, and there are children inside the picture. What's the intention here, which should always be the intention, is that it's the children who have to come first. Then it is regrettable that the children are used as a means in a fight between spouses or former spouses. It is therefore also important for a person to use the means available to minimise the suffering of children. We often see when parents move away from each other, that one side uses the children as a means of pressing, and that in most cases there is an economy behind. Therefore, it is important to take it seriously and give the children the protection they absolutely deserve and should have, not just in terms of conventions, laws and regulations, but in terms of normal heart conditions. Children are vulnerable, and they need the help they can get, to get a good and safe life. As I had in mind, there is a great deal of agreement on most of the proposals, but there are some proposals – which the representative Håheim was also involved in – where, to put it mildly, there may be some disagreement about understanding. With regard to the proposal to seize wealth, I can agree that it is more effective to use other economic instruments – there is no doubt about it – for children, etc. is much more effective. It is also said that the applicable provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act are not appropriate as an instrument in these cases. However, the Criminal Procedures Act can be reformed to allow one to seize the property. Although the wealth they might have in Norway is not directly linked to the kidnapping of their children, it is, after all, a kidnapping, and kidnapping is a serious crime — not only that they take the children from their parents, but they put the children under great trauma. They're actually doing a gross criminal act, which kidnapping is. Therefore, the Progress Party now considers that it may be timely to make changes to the Criminal Procedures Act so that the wealth of these kidnappers can be frozen, possibly seized on a later occasion. We believe that this can be a contribution, in addition to the other financial instruments, which we – as I said – fully agree with can be more effective, but it is a supplement that can help to prevent such actions. And then I finally want to just mention a little thing. A year ago, I was signed in the media in connection with a child-retirement case, where the children were brought back to Norway by one parent and professional people who were hired to do this job. For me, it's a clue if we're going to start hiring professional mercenaries who travel abroad to bring back kids who are kidnapped. In England, they have a special “task force”, such as: are operational at the Pakistani Embassy, which enters and picks up compulsorily-married girls. I have not said that we should do so in Norway — nor have we proposed it — but it might be an idea to consider the possibility in Norway of bringing children who are kidnapped. It is clear that this may have some diplomatic consequences, but it should be allowed at least to assess it, not just reject it immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e620	The right is the co-rapporteur on this matter. Our starting point is first and foremost the child's perspective. It's the concern of the children that makes us very committed to this issue. So the conflict between parents leads to the loss of children. From our point of view, there is a need for greater clarity in the handling of these questions by the Norwegian authorities. I am very pleased with the statement made by the rapporteur on the examination of the case by the Committee on Legal Affairs, because that statement also confirms what is our impression, that there is a total amount of impatience here, following the introduction of legislation and guidelines, which makes it more predictable how such complex matters should be dealt with. The right considers that this in itself can help prevent some of these cases from occurring at first instance. There is a high degree of complexity in the relationship between two countries involved in these cases. International conventions are mentioned, and in addition, we get a deep personal, emotional commitment, which further complicates this at human level. The right is behind these proposals, because we see a great need for a much clearer treatment by the Norwegian authorities in their handling of these issues. We need to clarify tools that are both organisational and legal. We believe that the balance of this proposal presented is precisely that. So it's a signal – after the Right understands now, even from a total accumulation – that we take this seriously and want to put it on the agenda and get solutions that allow us to prevent children from losing in a power game between their parents. I welcome the further debate and, not least, I welcome what comes from the government in the follow-up to the debate. We're also impatient on the Right's side in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e633	There is a proposal in the position that the Right and the Advance Party are behind. Does the representative wish to address that proposal? It's so far not taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e636	I interpreted it so that the previous speaker did. But if there's any doubt about it, I'll take up that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e641	Then the representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e644	There are perhaps a few things worse than your child being abducted illegally, and it gets worse when the child is taken out of the country. And that's the core of the matter. Unfortunately, outside the country, we do not have jurisdiction, and we have limited influence over the authorities of other countries, law, justice, etc. But that does not mean that we should not be impatient – we should definitely be impatient. It is SV, and we therefore share the proposalers' intention to do everything in our power to get these children home as soon as possible. The government has done a lot of things over the last few years. You can go to child-removal.no and see all the measures taken by the government. We hope so, and are safe on the way, at least will help parents who miss their children, and help children who have been abducted from their natural surroundings. Norwegian children belong in Norway. But we're still going to be impatient and do more things, and one of them is get other countries to ratify relevant conventions. That's what's most important, and that's how we together across borders, as authorities, are supposed to help get the kids home. When we first have children, and parents who are angry with each other and let the quarrel go out on the children, I'll come in for child support, which children need. It's kids' money. They go to their growth, they go to food, they go to clothes, they go to rent, they go to medicine, etc. So we know that in an obese situation, parents don't see the child, but they just get hung up in their former partner. Mostly it is sadly talking about mothers, but also fathers are there. I believe that we need to look at new mechanisms that can enable children to have their legitimate contribution. We know that very many people hide their income – work black, etc. – and then I have arranged that we should see if we should demand that before someone who owes a child's contribution to his child is allowed to register a car on him, he should settle with his child. The point here is that if you have money to buy a car, you have money to pay the contribution to your child. I believe that this is a proposal that should be considered. I have asked the government to do that, and I hope that other parties will also take it with them and reflect on it. The most important thing is to find good, effective mechanisms that enable children to get what they need. And then back to this: Norwegian children belong in Norway. And then we're going to stand together on the struggles for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e659	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good report and for his commendation – and this is also the case for the debate, which shows that this is a matter on which there is a great deal of agreement. Then I guess there's a difference between impatience. The Christian People's Party often tends to say that a society that is good for the children is good for everyone, and in this case it is clear that we owe children who have been abducted to do even more – do as much as we can. It is worrying that the number of child abductions is increasing. The Council of State and the President of the case are probably right in their assessment of the case when they say that the increase may be due to increased globalisation and the establishment of multicultural families. However, whatever the reason for the increase in child Abductions, it requires action and action from the government. It is obvious that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that child abduction is such a serious problem that the willingness to introduce measures is great. It is therefore gratifying that there is a broad political consensus that those abducting a child should not receive child support or other financial benefits. But then it's a shame that it takes so long for the government to produce law changes and present them to the Storting. The government signalled by the previous examination of similar proposals that a legislative proposal will be submitted to this effect during 2010. We haven't seen anything like that. When a similar proposal was discussed more than a year ago, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget said: «... I have great faith that financial measures could be very preventive and also expedite the return of illegally abducted children. [[...]] It is a very good quote, but it has been several years since a Minister of Justice first announced a possible legislative amendment in this area. I noticed that the Council of State in its assessment of the proposal has shifted responsibility to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, and that they aim to present a bill when the work is completed. It's a little bit difficult to deal with that exact time aspect. Now many years have passed, and I wonder how many more years the Council of State expects this work to take. It is justified to believe that there is great darkness in the case of child abductions. Many of these cases do not reach the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because they are not reported. As many people have experienced, there are complicated cases, and there may be difficult stories about child abduction. It is important that cases are reported, even if it may be demanding in some situations. But that also means that the problem and the number of abducted children are larger than the number being reported. The Christian People's Party believes that we have to do the legislation and the procedures that are to take care of the children being abducted today, much more fine mask than it is today. This is a challenge that I think the government has to take even more seriously, so that we also see action immediately. We're totally dependent on us at home having an appliance that handles things when they get here. Governments point out that we have a national and Nordic cooperation forum where experiences and information are shared. Governments can also tell us that the forums are very valuable. It is then difficult for me to understand that the Council of States does not want to formalize and make more concrete efforts. He should be given advice to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities for assistance to Norwegian parents who have abducted children. I take the debate and the treatment as a sign of the matter taken seriously by an overall increase, and then the Council of State takes the debate as a sign of great impatience from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e686	The left is also the co-rapporteur on this matter. First of all, I would like to begin by commending Minister of Justice Storberget for having a significant commitment to these issues – including in individual cases, which can sometimes be seen as unusual – in the past as opposition politicians and policymakers, and now also as Council of State. That being said, the Council of State may also agree with the opposition that there are still some things that remain and that can be done. At the same time, there are some things that have been done that are good. It's worth lifting forward. A number of the measures have been described in response to the Committee. Among other things, legal aid is included as a measure that I think is necessary, but I think we can do even more. As a former lawyer, I have been away in some of these matters. It's true as it's been described here in the past, that these are things that are extremely frustrating for the parents who are left and who have been robbed of their child. They're experiencing enormous abstinence, and they're meeting stagnation in the Norwegian system. In addition, some of these — often several — do not control the Norwegian language or the Norwegian system. Some of them are back to illiteracy. They do not know where to turn either. I think we have some dark numbers too, because they never go to the Norwegian authorities. They go through their own channels, their own environments. There's also fate that you have to bring with you. So we know that many people also use these child-related issues as a breaker bar to get their former spouse out of the country, for example. the person who has not obtained a permanent residence permit. When the child is robbed away from the country, there is no basis for staying in the country. Every time a rejection case appears and you have to leave, and then it happens that the Norwegian citizen who has taken the child abroad returns at some point. These are also difficult and evil things. As a lawyer, I've also observed cases where it's like a man from an Arab country and a woman from a Baltic country, and it's huge challenges related to how to solve those issues. The media has shown great commitment to these issues. I think that's important in order to get the individual probes out. This means that both the position and the opposition are constantly intrigued to create new and better systems, and not least that the responsible State Council is also following up here. I think we have to work a lot on the precaution principle. We have to do more. More children are constantly being brought across borders, and we need to create some systems internationally for what to do when such situations occur. Sometimes – it’s not sure that it’s necessarily true – the perception of people, and the experience that people are left with, that the police don’t take these things completely seriously, that you might be met with a little passivity and a phrase that they’ll probably come back again, we just get to wait and see it in a 14-day time. But it's known that it's the first 14 days or three weeks that are so crucial in the investigation phase of these cases. I think we also limit ourselves to other departments here, even though this is a field that belongs to this committee, not least in terms of how we are going to get agreements, transnational agreements, with other countries to which Norway has a great deal of immigration from and emigration to. Then we must understand that it is not only a problem that children are abducted from Norway to another country, it also happens that children are abducted to Norway. How, then, are we going to deal in principle with those things? We're the world's best country to live in. It may, however, be that the best thing for the child is to live somewhere else, even if one has been abducted to the best country in the world. Whatever the case, the best thing for the child will be at the bottom right here. It is right and fair to view child abduction as violence against children. It's a kind of violence. They are deprived of their home, and they are deprived of the opportunity to live their lives as they want to live it. It's not safe they want to be abducted, not least it can mean a rather uncertain future for the children, with multiple moves. The best thing for the child is that the child is allowed to live with both parents, at least have contact with both parents. I think it's the right way to stop collecting child contributions on behalf of child abductors. I don't think that belongs in the state of Norway. I believe that the opportunity to seize the fortunes of those who abduct is also a way to go. The left will vote in favour of the proposals put forward. As I understand it, there will be considerable will from Storberget to meet those proposals. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e713	This matter concerns me very much. That's also why I was in opposition to make suggestions on this. In the position, I have done what I can, both in the individual cases with which one is being met, and in general, in order to help us better prevent and better implement measures that can bring children back to Norway. That is why I want to give all sorts of credit to the proposers, because I think it is useful to have these debates in Stortinget. There can also be new input into new actions. So from my side, I'm open mostly when it comes to this field. It does not mean that all proposals are equally appropriate and that all proposals are feasible, but I think they are worth discussing almost every round. Last night, I had conversations with two fathers who we are assisting in the Ministry of Justice, and who have lost their children to two countries, what we could call East Blocland in the past. I see what kind of suffering the children are exposed to, and what kind of suffering the fathers, in these cases, are exposed to, and how difficult and complex this is. It is true that the jurisdiction of the Norwegian authorities ceases at the border, and there is little difficulty in thinking such a ‘task-force’ as the representative of Ørsal Johansen spoke of. We also see that the different types of legal systems make it difficult to get effective implementation of decisions that are really quite obvious, even where the countries are members of the Hague Convention. But what makes me optimistic here, too, is that there are cases in the Ministry of Justice that have ensured successful return from land, I can mention Palau – you can try to find out where it is – or other neighbouring countries, where we have ended up happily. We have also had cases where the law has been obvious, where we have had great hopes that the authorities that were supposed to be able to implement this, but the time has passed, and the child has become so large that things have finally come in completely different from the child's best judgements. When you've been close to 10 years in another country with one parent, it says it's not just easy to say that that child should suddenly move to a country, maybe to people that it doesn't know at all. So this is complex, and it makes us totally dependent on strengthening a good part of the measures that we've already started. This is a work which started under the previous government at Minister of Justice Dørum, and which, in my opinion, has only become stronger and stronger, both in terms of the legal aid side, the list of lawyers with special competence, the extension of criminal liability, which has been at the hearing, and which we are now aiming to present to the Stortinget proposals, the development of judicial competence, among others. with a Nordic-Baltic seminar soon to be held, urging non-member countries to accede to the Hague Convention and to reinforce the efforts of the respective departments and agencies. I have to say that I have a civil department in the Ministry of Justice with an incredible number of competent and good employees who every single day almost use every opportunity to create pressure on concrete matters. Some issues are raised at political level and are the subject of ministerial meetings. We put our head in the wall in many cases, for uncertain reasons. We can't go in and dictate a Bulgarian court, sail if I want to do so many times after long conversations with some of the fathers. In the outbound embassies, the closest team of returnees is to stand ready when handovers and any execution orders are available. A lot of good has been done to ensure that I have at least hopes that we will be able to resolve several of the issues we are now facing. I believe it is a very good quote that the representative Ropstad read from my opinions on economic instruments. There are dilemmas in absorbing economic instruments, yes. But I believe that much of the motive, which several representatives have been involved in, lies in the economy. In particular, being able to freeze child contributions, withholding it — the kind of benefits we have had — has been consulted. This is now for treatment in the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, and I will do what I can to ensure that it is delivered as soon as possible to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e730	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e733	It's been a while since I was in the debate on cases from the Justice Committee. But the issue that now exists is an important matter to be involved in a debate on. It is at least one thing that is certain, and it is that the Minister of Justice has a great commitment to these matters. He has shown that in those years he has been in opposition, and in the years he has been Minister of Justice. But he's been a Minister of Justice for six years, and as he's probably gotten along, the opposition is impatient because it takes so long before we can put in place some proper rules for this. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the government parties have realised that part of the proposals that the opposition is promoting is worth taking with them – they have been out at the hearing, and you will come back to them. The Minister of Justice himself says that these are issues that are difficult and complex and take time to have a dialogue with other authorities. That's why it's so important that we do what we can in Norway before we get such agreements in place. Some of the proposals could have been made quite simply. I find it regrettable that it is still going to take some time, although it is positive that something is going on. These are difficult things, and we have to think children's best about this. It is parents who lose their children, and it is children who lose contact with their parents. That's why it's so important that we have a real piece of legislation and proper sanctions to take care of these children. Then I can't avoid commenting on Akhtar Chaudhry's posts, because he talked about penalties in relation to child contributions. We know that child care matters are among the issues in which there has been the greatest increase in the courts now, because people are unable to agree. That is why, as the sole party, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to the Stortinget that it should be automatically shared care in the event of a breakup of life. But I would like to remind the representative of Chaudhry that when we had a case in the Justice Committee on Child Welfare last year, the Progress Party promoted a proposal on sanctions. Because we know that neither father nor mother maintains the agreement imposed on them by courts, it is important that there are sanctions. It voted against, so it may be time to promote a new proposal on sanctions, so that children get both the company and the economy they are required to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e744	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e762	There are currently between 4000 and 5000 part-time fire service crews in Norway who lack the required training. This applies primarily to basic training, but also to call-out managers in part-time. At the same time, a large succession of full-time staff is being built which does not receive or has not received the necessary statutory training. The size has decided that all part-time teams should have the necessary training by the end of 2012. This is not feasible at all, as the Progress Party has also pointed out in the Stortinget on several occasions, for example. during the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009 4 March 2010 in this room. On a question from me, Minister of Justice Storberget answered the following, and I quote from the Minutes: ‘I feel that fire training in Norway has many solid qualities. I have been in Teldsund and looked at this, and I was sailing one of the eager ones in 2006 and 2007 for, among other things. to extend the training offer for part-time firefighters, where the regulation was implemented, and where money was also put on the table. But we must always, at all times – especially now when we impose additional tasks on the fire service – look at the kind of financial framework they have. We shall return to that in the annual budgetary procedures.» What Storberget here says is not right. Storberget says that you have invested money, Storberget says that you should look at this in the financial plan, but that does not happen. The money's not coming. What's the status today? Today the status is that there are no earmarked funds allowed to raise the number of part-time workers. As mentioned, between 4000 and 5000 people in the whole country who do not have that education but who are actually going to have it by 1 January 2012. So we're talking about six to seven months from now, we're essentially going to be in the box of education. If you say it's about 4,000 people, you have to do between 250 and 300 courses. It's quite a lot, all over the country. But initially, it's actually just the money it's on. The fire department itself is ready. The fire department itself has applied to contribute and complete those courses, but has received a refusal from Norway's fire department because they have not received money from the government. We're talking here about a aftermath. When we go in and check with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, it costs approx. 200000 for each course, and that is approx. 15 persons on such a course. If you calculate it on the 4 000 people who lack the course, there is a lack of government funding of 50-60 million. kr. So we need to get 50-60 million in place. kr. Then we'll be able to do what the Storting, this hall, has decided. And that's why we're in this room. It is to make decisions, and once it has been adopted, I also assume that it will be followed up. Let's also see what happened next. What has happened is that when part-time teams are not granted money, the fire school has prioritised the other way. In the field of fire protection, this has gone beyond full-time personnel, emergency services, preparedness, prevention and 110, which means that the fire department has actually only managed to train at the lower end of 50 pst. by those who were actually to be trained, because they have shorted off the courses of the full-time teams. This again means that you have had a lag, and it also costs money to reduce the delay. That's going to be 80 million. kr, which has to be granted over a few years to get this up to go – so we take back that part of it as well. So it has some consequences that we're doing, for example. that you do not have enough supervisory staff, as you could read from our country on Friday 20 May. I will quote what the head of the department of DSB Hans Kristian Madsen said: ‘The Directorate-General for Social Security and Preparedness often considers that there is too little staff in the fire department’s management and in the preventive department. [[DSB]] This leads, inter alia, to a lack of supervision of places where fire can lead to the loss of many lives or to serious damage to health, the environment or material.» It also says: ‘According to the DSB, in particular in the case of minor fire services, there is a lack of personnel.’;» When we talk about smaller fire services that lack staff, we are among other things. in part-time teams, for the most vulnerable are the teams in small municipalities. Of the large municipalities – which, otherwise, in the case of full-time education, do not get it – there are three municipalities that have taken the event in another hand because the government is unable to deliver what it is supposed to deliver. It's Trondheim, Oslo and Bergen. So they've spent municipal taxes, money that was really going to come from the state. It goes beyond other things, of course, such as school, health and other things that are the responsibility of the municipalities, because the government here has completely failed in its promises. It's also the case that a tight economic framework that hits the fire schools makes you unable to get this up to speed. It's also another aftertaste that's a little bit important to record. The progress party commented on the message we last addressed, said a little about the problem of the practice facilities and added money to it. Then, in the debate, I also took up with Storberget how the stand is up there. Now the mass is so exhausted that things have been closed for some periods, and you risk being closed – that's the one. The second is that Norway’s fire school is probably the worst fire school in terms of training opportunities across Europe — at least after we’ve managed to check out by talking to the trade unions. So at Norway's fire school, you don't have the opportunity to practice in collapsed buildings. Everyone remembers the tragedy in Ålesund. It is clear that when such an accident occurs, the crews must also have had an opportunity to practice it in advance. There is no possibility to practice high-rise shutdown and evacuation, i.e. at altitudes above two to three levels. And we know that in cities and everywhere, there are houses and other things to do. These teams are actually out in war every day. Every day, Norwegian firemen go to war. It's a little paradoxical: if we go three miles south of Tjeldsund, we get there where the Special Forces of the Defence have their practice department. You've used a place between 3 and 4 billion. NOK to build this, so that the soldiers we send to foreign service are well equipped for the job they are going to do. And that's right, it's a great investment, and it's supported by the Progress Party. But we also need to look at the local heroes that we have in Norway today, who are the firefighters in each municipality in the whole country. We have over 400 municipalities, and we have fire services in all municipalities. So here you have to be willing to get involved in the load – and do it. In my opinion, the State Council of Storberget has failed not only Brann-Norway, but also the entire Norwegian people. A little bit of the problem that you have to take inwards is that you create an education that many people don't get taken, and then the state comes next time. If a small municipality does not have its people trained, the directorate – DSB – comes to visit and asks for documentation: Do you – according to the Fire Act – have qualified fire crews? No, we don't. Then the municipality may not have fire crew with this education because the state has not provided it. Then – at worst – you are fined for not complying with the law. So here's the state inside, and it's the government's fault that you don't have qualified teams, because it can't deliver the education you're going to have. In the next round, you risk getting money from municipalities – in penalties – because you have the opportunity to get them to do what needs to be done to maintain what is in the law. So here you've come into a crazy spiral. I think this is important. If I can guess what Storberget is going to answer to me now, he's going to say: No, unfortunately we can't get this in place for 2012 – as the Progress Party has also said – we probably have to push it out in time. I'll bet a good salary that he's going to say it, because that's the only way he can get away with this. In any case, I would like to ask Storberget, if you have to push it out in time – and everyone understands that when you haven't started this – he does what the Advance Party does: get into this and give money to get it up and go. In the revised budget of the Progress Party, we're adding a good sum to start this up, so we can start our education. So the Progress Party, I would say, is the only party in this big business that takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e804	The President will not encourage bets, at least not in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e807	The question is whether there will be enough money to pay the bets at the end. Every municipality shall have a fire service capable of carrying out both preventive and emergency tasks safely, as stated in the law. Regulation of 26 June 2002 No. 729, on the organisation and dimensioning of the fire service, shall ensure that the fire service is organised, equipped and manned in such a way that statutory duties are performed satisfactorily. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that fire service personnel have the competence required by legislation at all times. Let it be fixed. It was previously voluntary for municipalities to provide part-time personnel with training in the direction of the Norwegian Fire School. I was concerned to ensure that all part-time fire crews would receive the training they needed, both in the interests of their own safety and in the interests of professionalism of the tasks they are to perform in various emergencies. That's why it was in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007 for the Ministry of Justice proposed that the regulatory requirement for part-time fire service personnel be implemented as soon as practicable in 2007 and the requirement was made applicable from 1 January 2007. This has been here for a long time, and the Progress Party has had ample opportunity during civil cooperation to deal with this, if you were concerned about it. At the same time, I was concerned that the municipalities were able to send part-time fire workers on course. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs was strengthened by 9 million in 2007. kr for the purpose. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs transfers the compensation of municipalities as a general transfer within the income system, but there is no doubt that this money has been granted. The regulation now requires both full-time and part-time fire service personnel to have completed basic fire performance training. There are about 3,500 full-time employees and about 8,700 part-time employees in the fire department. Everyone is doing a glittering job, in my opinion. Norway's Fire School in the municipality of Tjeldsund in the Nordic region is the central training institution for fire service personnel. The training consists of practical and theoretical training in own fire services and training in fire protection and rescue tasks in the direction of the Norwegian Fire School. In the case of part-time fires, the main emphasis is on training in a fire service, but in the direction of Norway's fire school. The last part of the training consists of practical exercises at one of 16 approved practice facilities. I am concerned that both full-time and part-time staff should have sound competence. At the turn of the year, about 3,000 part-time constituents needed training on a national basis. In addition, there are about 800 to 900 call-out managers who need training. Until now, there has been no lag in full-time education, but this picture is changing, and in 2010 and 2011, there have been more applicants than places. Provision of basic training courses for part-time staff has been available to the fire service since 2002. From 2002 until now, the Norwegian Fire School has conducted 169 courses with a total of 2,564 participants. This number would have been higher if the municipalities had taken advantage of all the courses provided by the Norwegian Fire School. Since the introduction of the regulatory requirement in 2007, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has implemented a number of information measures to influence municipalities to give priority to part-time fire service personnel training. In determining the regulatory requirement, information was provided on the new competence requirements on DSB’s websites and on the fire school’s websites. Information has also been communicated at different meeting places where DSB has made representations for the target group. I can mention, among other things: seminars for fire services/DSB seminars organised in cooperation with the Norwegian Fire Office Association, the annual seminar organised by the Oslo Fire Corps Association/Fireman, dialogue meetings with the NBLF and information provided at their technical meetings, fire chief conferences and user meetings at the fire department. Furthermore, the DSB, in its supervision of the municipalities/firehouses, has paid particular attention to the importance of municipalities prioritising participation in the basic course of part-time, and has since 2007 asked for the number of individual fire services with the regulatory competence and the plan of fire services to ensure that all part-time constables comply with the requirements by the end of the transitional regime in 2012. In this respect, I also allow myself to refer to my answer to written questions from the representative, dated 4 May 2011, about how many municipalities have been ordered that they do not meet the requirements for training firefighters. It is clear that the DSB is not authorised to impose on part-time staff training requirements before the expiry of the transitional arrangements in the regulation for the basic course for part-time firefighters, i.e. after 31 December 2012. Only in the last two years have the number of applications from municipalities taken up. We must be happy about that. Demand has now more than doubled compared to previous years. The big move is a challenge for DSB and Norway's fire school. For 2011, there are about 800 part-time staff looking for a course. There are 16 basic courses, which in total will be able to train approx. 300 part-time constituents. I stress that part-time firefighters who are applying for a course will have this completed. As a result, capacity has been increased in the last two years by re-prioritising individual courses for full-time employees for the benefit of part-time employees. However, this has contributed to a certain lag in full-time training. This is not a dangerous road in the longer term. In that way, the interpellant and I agree. I am concerned that this delay should not continue, and that the personnel who are applying for a course will receive an offer to do so. At the same time, there has been a tendency for more full-time fire workers to apply for training than before. The full-time training status for 2011 is that there are 235 applicants for emergency stage 1 and 100 places are established. For the full-time basic course, there are 112 applicants for 60 places. It is necessary to ensure that both full-time and part-time staff have sound competence. Against the background of the great need for training firefighters, I believe that further measures are necessary to ensure a balance between the supply and demand for a qualified course, both for full-time and part-time firefighters. It may also be necessary to consider both an extension of the transitional arrangements for part-time workers, in which the interpellant was involved, and an increase in training capacity. The total need for fire training was mentioned in St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009. Against this background, on 17 December 2010, the government appointed a sample which shall, by the end of January 2012, address the overall training needs of the fire service. I think we need such an overall review now. It is also appropriate to consider this investigation in the evaluation of further measures relating to fire training. The mandate of the panel states that a review of future training needs needs needs needs to be highlighted in light of current and future challenges in fire services both in the prevention and preparedness field. The selection has been asked to describe the strengths and weaknesses of today’s educational provision and to make a recommendation on which elements should be passed on and where changes are needed in the light of the competence challenges facing the fire service today and could be faced in the future. The selection has also been asked to assess whether increased intercommunal fire cooperation could enhance the competence of the part-time fire service. In general, therefore, I think it is most appropriate now to await further action in connection with the training of the full-time and part-time fire service of the Fire Education Committee. We need it. The pressure against the educational institutions shows that. I also believe that it may be necessary to extend the transitional arrangements for part-time staff, but that such a decision may have to be made after receiving the report of the Fire Education Committee, because I would then like to have a better basis to provide detailed guidance on how fire training should be organised in the future. Based on the fact that the sample delivers its report nearly one year before the expiry of the transitional regime, I believe this is a sound strategy. So it's obvious that much of this depends not only on government appropriations, but also on the municipal responsibility of having a sufficient fire service in their municipality, and to a large extent also on budgetary issues. In this way, it is interesting to note that neither the Progress Party has gleaned with additional appropriations that could solve the challenge we are now facing, so we must respectfully say that we are facing a common challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e858	I would like to thank Mr Storberget for his answer. It was a lot as expected, but I noticed that they said that they have financed it – they have financed it through the municipal budgets. I have not registered that there are earmarked funds in the municipal budgets where money is to be spent on this. So here it's back into the big pot, that you don't ear tag and apologize for transferring money to the municipalities. Storberget says that the municipalities have a responsibility. It is now that Norway's fire school is a state school. That is, it's Norway's fire school that takes on the cost of training people. The fire service stands with people over there and must have temporary workers when they are on the course to be trained. So the biggest cost is to the municipalities that they have to send people out and then replace them in emergency situations until they come back. It's a cost item for the municipality. But you can't escape that it's Norway's fire school that's going to do it. And when the council then says that the municipalities have not taken advantage of the courses, I would like to quote with regard to the annual reporting 2010 to DSB: ‘This contains facts about the educational situation from 2010. As far as the situation for 2011 is concerned, it is just as bad as for 2010. There's no more heads in the pot. This means that we do not have as many full-time regional or part-time courses as there is a need and willingness to undertake at the various fire services.’ Once again, we're going to get back to the part that goes on who's responsible here. And that's once, with all due respect, the responsibility of the state. A regulation has been put into effect, and money must also be granted. The big mountain is out according to what the Progress Party may have done. We've also approved. We have actually granted much more to the municipalities than the government parties have done. So that's when we've at least put a funding in. But at the top of everything, we're now adding a direct funding to the revised, where we're going in to do the grip to get this up and go. So with all due respect, as I said, the party of progress has done something. And we can also see a little bit of that by making, as the Council of State says, the assessment that full-time courses have been de-prioritized in favour of part-time, such as part-time courses. provides lookups like this, which I referred to instead. These include: Church fires and other things, and you don't have the staff to do the job in the fire department. So what the government is doing is making poor preparedness, and unfortunately you also get more accidents and more fires.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e874	I'd like to ask the interpellant to exercise some caution in drawing such bastful conclusions about the relationship between more accidents and more fires and, if necessary, the lack of competence on the part of the fire service. I think you should be careful about that – I don't think it will even benefit the debate. In fact, I see that we now, through the range that has been reduced, have an opportunity to look at the overall range of competences that you have in the fire service, and that you have an opportunity to take an overall discussion, without necessarily ‘reversing’ that debate with the kind of more panic-carded descriptions. With regard to the question of the funds allocated to the regulation that came in 2006, it was particularly important for the Ministry of Justice that these funds came to the municipalities. It should only be lacking if we do not actively use both time and resources to point out to the municipalities that they have a responsibility for maintaining the competences that people outside. I believe that it may actually be one of the key prerequisites for achieving this. And I can't remember that the interpellant's party at any stage has gone in order that these funds should in any way be earmarked for this and that they should not go into the framework. The same applies to future budgetary appropriations that may come. Either the municipalities that are going to buy services from the Fire School, for example, or the Fire School's own ability to provide education, we'll have to take it in future budget rounds. But I'm noticing that you're getting word from the Progress Party that you're going to bring it – now. I remind you that in that case they have had ample opportunity in their alternative budgets to take action – if they think it was necessary – so that this might be a reminder that it is not always as wise to be high and dark in the debates we have. I also have a pragmatic and optimistic approach to this, and I believe that we should be able to do this. At the same time, we see that a good proportion of local fire services — and also intercommunals — do a very good job in the primary function, but not least by providing the people who are inside, either full-time or part-time, with the skills they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e885	Unlike the inter-pellant, which shows dissatisfaction with the vast majority of this society, I would like to commend the Minister of Justice for his commitment to ensuring part-time fire service personnel the necessary education. This is essential for meeting the difficult and often dangerous situations in which the crews may face when on mission. It is important and absolutely necessary that there is a basic knowledge of fire, fire development, extinguishment and modern extinguishing equipment and methods at the bottom. But there are experiences from repeated pointed situations and sufficient number of drills that form good firefighters. Training of firefighters, including part-time workers, was also a topic during the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009, Fire safety, winter 2010. Increased focus on the training of firefighters is good and necessary, not only for the firefighters to be able to perform optimally the firefighters themselves, but also for their improvement in assessing their own safety during operations at the site of fire. Fire preparedness varies greatly from municipality to municipality. This is also related to municipal structure and housing patterns. I was part-time firefighter for 12 years in a large municipality with large industrial holdings and large distances, where according to the norm the population base was to provide for cascadered firepower. Based on active and good training in our own municipality and in cooperation with professional neighboring fire services, we had approved fire systems at all times. We also had call-out times that were clearly within the set requirements of the DSB. So we had a quality fire service, even though it consisted of part-time teams. I mention this because it can quickly attach itself to a picture that part-time firefighters, part-time firefighters, are bad and unsafe schemes. That being said, the preparedness of many municipalities in the country could be improved considerably by more extensive cooperation and more inter-municipal cooperation solutions. I am pleased with the focus on the training of part-time workers, because I know from my time in local politics that in 2006 the Minister of Justice got 9 million. for firefighter training. Unfortunately, such funds are added to the framework grant to the municipalities and allocated according to the cost key. This was also the case in this case, which meant that this money was distributed to all municipalities, whether the municipality had part-time or permanent crews. It was perceived as unreasonable for the municipalities with part-time workers, and I hope now that the range set up to address the overall educational needs of the fire service also looks more closely at the distribution of such money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e896	The Minister of Justice talked about high and dark. It does not take so much to be higher than the Minister of Justice, but that I am dark, at least I cannot be blamed for! I had hoped that the Minister of Justice had come here with a little more clear and clear willingness to come up with the means to get this in place. The Minister of Justice talks about the Progress Party being able to sort out when we were in government. We've never been in government, even though it sounds like that, but we were part of a majority. As far as I know, the regulation came in 2007. Then it was still the red-green government that ran the shop. When the Council of State says that he wants to wait and see what the fire education committee comes up with in 2012, I think it's a little interesting to read what you're actually saying today for 2012. Bamble Municipality is a municipality that is run by the Progress Party, so it might well be why they haven't got room – but in what I read here, it says at least: ‘In 2012, 16 basic courses of part-time shall be completed by 1 December 2012. Recording and recording messages have already been sent to the respective municipalities/regions. Your municipality/region did not receive a course.’» This is 2012. This means that the same education was given in 2012 as we had in 2011, which shows that only in Telemark there are 150 people who would have had a basic course for part-time employees in the fire service. There are 150 people who, when the accident is over, or when we have another reason to rely on firefighters «out in war», as the representative of Tjäldal said, should have been educated, but who do not get it – and who, many of them, will not get it before the deadline expires, and the regulation's requirement that everyone should be educated expires. That probably means there'll be a lot of people who don't want that education. So with the pace set by the Minister of Justice and the political majority and the government, there will be several thousand firefighters who will not have the opportunity to get the necessary education. That's what this is all about. And it's small money to be able to make sure that you get these courses in place, that's not capacity problems or other things. It's pure economy that's the basis for not getting ahead and making sure that everyone gets the education they should have, and that we should actually give them so that they are as well equipped as possible to do the job they do, when something happens that makes them have to move out. It also says here – it is also for the municipality – in the case of emergency training step 1 – part-time: ‘We refer to their application [[...]] That's the answer the municipalities get around. That means there are many frustrated firemen out there who would like to have been educated, and who could have been educated, if the Minister of Justice and the Government had put more money on the table. So I hope in the end that the Minister of Justice also sees that it is fully possible to do so – it is possible to follow up the requirement and the law that we have decided in this area – and that he will now say that he will take a closer look at this, and make sure that there is an extension beyond the 16 courses that are in 2011, and the 16 courses that are now proposed for 2012, that he actually comes with more money, so that firefighters get a good education and are equipped to do the job they are going to do for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e921	Here comes a little and dark that is sometimes high and dark. There aren't so many big people in the hall here, except maybe when it comes to the positions that some people have. But this is, like other issues of civil protection, of extreme importance. We all know how important it is that we have competent enough, good enough and not least enough crew when fire strikes, when accidents, terrors or natural disasters occur. At the same time, it's a paradox that it's very rare that I experience politicians burning as much when it comes to discussing this kind of question, as other questions we've discussed both before today and before. In many ways, I think maybe we should be happy that the people of Norway do not know where some of the evil things are with quite a lot of civil protection. One of the themes is what we are discussing today. But you can only mention the level of practice in Homeland. You can mention the Civil Defense. We could mention the police reserve. And then it's, even if you set up a crisis support unit and you give more money to it, something about basic readiness and manning that's kind of out of place. Then it might not help with better structures at the top. Other examples could have been mentioned in this issue today. I have previously discussed the evaluation of the fire in Urtegata in Oslo – in 2008, it was well – and what had to appear at the time as a promise of scrutiny and evaluation. What happened there was that a person ended up in DSB. There was no evaluation. It shows in a way how vulnerable this whole topic is. I am also concerned that this is a topic which is a common political responsibility for absolutely all parties, not only for the government parties, but also for those of us who are opposition. So those of us who aim to take over offices etc. in 2013, this debate should be remembered here today, so that no expectations are created that cannot be met. I think we have such great challenges that this isn't done on one, two, three. I choose to perceive the Council of States so that he takes the challenge seriously. The question now arises as to whether these types of priorities compete for all other good purposes when budgets are to be drawn up. We can draw the parallel right over here. So over the years, a lot of politicians think it's been really all right to open up new roads. It has now taken a very long time, and it would have been a lot more expensive, but it seems to have been more fun than prioritizing the maintenance run. But there has actually been a great debate, both politically and in the media. In this field we have almost had no debate. This is a niche debate, some say. Everyone may be affected, but at the same time this is a niche debate. That's why I want to give credit to the interpellant, who raises a question that doesn't get the attention it deserves at all. So the challenge for both government and greatness in the future is that you don't continue to treat this issue as a stepchild. Firemen are more patient than the police. They might be missing an Arne Johannessen. Perhaps the Council of State is pleased that they don't have it. It might have been okay if the fire service was even more obvious, because the reality description we politicians are talking about is not exactly very close to what the firemen are talking about. There are a lot of areas, but I think maybe the misunderstanding is even bigger here than in many other fields. The debate is necessary because a debate on municipal structure may also be initiated indirectly. Norway is a scattered country with many small municipalities. Now you're working together pretty well in a lot of places. However, on behalf of the Right, I would like to ask the government at least to assess the possibilities of looking at reward schemes for better cooperation between municipalities than what you have today. So a point relative to the course. I am also familiar with courses in things that are not exactly fire prevention tasks, in order to earn money in course activities – swimming training, etc. It says something about the level at which you need to invest to finance your operation and to finance training across core tasks. These are examples that I hope you can get fewer. I think it has been a subdued and calm debate. That might mean that nobody here really has the most amazing suggestions to come up with. There have been some additions and changes – the world has not necessarily got worse in all fields. But there is good reason for a total accumulation and a government not to forget this topic, but to continue to debate it. I have great hopes that the Council of State will have as great and burning a commitment to this matter as the previous issue of child abduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e944	Unlike the previous speaker, I'm tall, but I don't have much left to be dark in. Nevertheless, I have my opinions about the fire service and the education they have. I can also say that, like the representative Lillehovde, I come from a municipality with the fire department, a fire department with part-time employees. Let it be clear that a fire service with part-time employees is absolutely no B-fireplace. They're full of height. They're training, they're trained, they're trained, they're trained, they're experienced, they're full-time firefighters, they're full-time employees. So they're good firefighters in Norway. Norwegian firefighters are actually good. They're doing a great job. They're making an enormous effort to save values and lives for the rest of us who live in this country. Part-time employees have good competence. Competence is important. Competence comes from the training and experience they have, which the representative Lillehovde was also involved in. But it's very dangerous if the fire service is to build its competence only on experience. I think that might be a very expensive competence. In order to gain experience, one must have a basis on which to build that experience. This is supported by training and training. Then you get the experience you're going to have, through sharp assignments and some exercises. I think that when State Council Storberget is now trying to give the Advance Party and the previous government a little of the blame that nothing has happened on the training front in the case of the Fire Service, it is, frankly, a little disrespectful. It would have been fun to hear the State Council of the Great Mountains stand on this pulpit one time and say about the Fire Service: OK, here we may not have done a good enough job, here it is required that we invest some more resources, that we bet a little more, and that we can get a whole Stortinget to be on it. And then say, the government hasn't done a good job, but we're going to do it and we're going to grant what's necessary to get a fire service that gets the training and the training they need. The Council of State is also concerned that funds have been allocated to the fire service through frameworks in the municipalities. I have been a municipal politician for over 20 years, and I have some experience in how governments grant money. They give with one hand, and then they take with the other hand. Then add the new tasks that are far from being funded. When carrying out tasks, e.g.: counties, which are rare, or from the state to the municipalities – which the State has spent 100 million. kr, gets the municipalities approx. Eighty million. kr to do the task. That's what you're financing. Then it's no wonder that the municipalities may down-prioritise part of it with temporary workers and training for fire services, but give priority to school and care for the elderly. These are the priorities the municipalities face every day in their budgets. So the municipalities – we who sat there before, and those who sit there today – know that Norway is flooding with money. Then they can't quite understand the context of this. So much is about giving money, so that the municipalities and the fire department have the opportunity to carry out the training that the firemen are entitled to, and that they are going to have for us to have a fire service in Norway that works optimally. Because we're going to remember that the firefighters who are out there, who literally sacrifice their lives every single day, must be able to be sure of an education and training that, first of all, enables them to secure lives and values for us who are not firefighters, but also that they can secure life for themselves and their colleagues when they are out on the missions they are. Because it's a tough job. It's a dangerous job. And it takes a good deal to be a fireman, both training and courage. But that courage cannot be at the expense of training and experience, for it is the training and experience on which the courage is to be built – if not foolishness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e962	I just want to catch up with some of the State Council Storberget replied to me – not if I was tall and dark, I'm going to use it from the record afterwards. To say that I am – it will be difficult when TV comes on! It's claimed that the municipalities don't take advantage of all the places in the fire department. Before this debate, I was in contact with the fire department. I asked them to get numbers on the table. There you can see some of what the Great Mountain was inside. In 2010, there were 1,007 full-time jobs applying for a place, because they need it to maintain their skills, and 483 get it. So it's approx. 42-43 pst. Who gets it. In the case of part-time workers, the following is said on a question from me: ‘Requirements for the training of part-time workers entered into force 01.01.07. Here it's built up a huge aftermath. In 2010, 230 students completed their basic education. By the end of 2010, there are about 50 requests for the start of the course. [[between 700 and 800 students]] On the basis of the expected 2011 framework, only 16 will be given a clear signal for start-up.» That's exactly what Hoksrud says. He takes an example from his home municipality, Bamble, where he tells exactly what's coming. And so a little bit to this with training, what you mean by training and not training: we were out meeting the business on Tuesday, we met a maritime cluster that is very concerned with competence, very busy with education. Every time we meet the business community, they say they want three things for the business to go: it's competence, competence, competence. So then my question to Storberget is: Does Storberget not agree with me that it is equally important whether you work in public or in private, that it is competence, competence, competence? Because it goes back to life and health, and it goes about doing a good job so that you also protect yourself. I think the debate here has been very good. And I actually think I see light in the tunnel -- that the Great Mountain might come back and do something about this in the next budget. I agree with Storberget that we need to see the whole education as a whole, but I still think it is not very proactive to sit and wait for the answer to that. It's okay to do two things at once, so I ask Storberget to do that, and I ask him to look at this. What Storberget can do this year, anyway, is go to DSB and ask them to re-prioritize their own budgets, that they put out the money to the people who are going to be in active service, and rather cut down a little bit administratively. It might be a good idea. But I look forward to the big mountain coming into this room next year's budget and saying we've done too little, but we're standing up and admitting it, and we're doing more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e980	It is not necessary to create political conflicts of all kinds. What we all agree on is the need for increased educational capacity and the need for more competence, so I do. But I'm not doing it based on a kind of panic card notion that the Norwegian fire department is about to crash – just so they say. That's perhaps more the opposite, that we have a firetight in Norway that I see in many ways has dealt with very demanding situations in an incredibly good way, a firetat that only gets an expanded task portfolio, and that plays a more important and important role in social security. These are good arguments for ever having a focus on competence. I also very much disagree with those who had to claim that this is in many ways a field that is under-prioritized in politics. I think I'm one of the few government councils that have chosen to prioritize the use of time and resources to write a crash message on fire safety, where many important questions of principle were clarified, but which there is also a process around to get a clarification. It's all about how we're going to organize the fire service – there are some of us who disagree very much with the Progress Party about privatising the fire service and that kind of activity – to the issue of regionalization of the fire department, which is particularly important. And not least, the competence part was an incredibly important part of that discussion. I believe that the sample that has been reduced could provide us with important answers on how we should be able to do this in a better way in the future. So that's the way it is with regard to the budgetary issues: yes, I fully agree with the nine million dollars we made sure to get in place when the regulation was put into effect – that's why it had been lying for so long. It wasn't a political kiosk. We could spend the nine million on a lot of other strange things, to be completely honest, but I thought it was very important that we did it. So being almost taken here because this is a field that we don't want to prioritize, I'll take the distance from. But that it's created a situation now that makes us have a aftermath, we just have to realize. I welcome everyone's input, especially the input of the sample, on how we can do this in a reassuring way for the future. In this way, I think this debate has been a good estimate to strengthen that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e989	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1005	At regular intervals, we are presented with crime statistics that give us a glimpse of how the Norwegian people relate to the law. Sometimes we see a development in the desired direction, and sometimes we see the opposite. On 5 April this year, we got an example of the latter. Because then NRK presented statistics that showed that 34 pst. Among men under 25 years of age, more than one third of young men under 25 have been convicted. However, although these figures include some minor offences, there is every reason to wonder what causes so many boys and young men are in these statistics. And not least we have to ask what we can do to make fewer young people end up in this statistics. I haven't mentioned the women. They're not 100 percent law-abiding either, but the numbers are, after all, considerably lower for women. In the opinion of the Right, the fight against crime must be based on two main pillars. First of all, we must work to prevent crime from happening at all, and in particular with efforts aimed at children and young people, and second, we must ensure adequate police coverage, good investigation, correction, effective criminal responses and follow-up of offenders. There's a lot of good crime prevention work done around the country. I myself have had the pleasure of being a rapporteur in a great municipality called Obere Eiker, and it was a genuine commitment to a collective municipal government when we talked about crime prevention work. The same commitment I think we find in almost every local government in the country. We are now in the Municipality of Oslo. The municipality of Oslo has launched a project that goes on this very thing, called the Salto, which is also a comprehensive project that can show good results. The government, not least, is working on crime prevention at many levels and in many areas. I mention e.g. the government action plan, known as Good Forces, with a total of 35 prevention measures across a wide range of areas and professionals. All parties in this room are involved in this issue, and the topic has been debated countless times. You could almost say that everything is at the heart of a cross-political effort in such an important area. However, the debates are still coming to an end. The right believes that some of the reasons for this are that there may not be any clear solutions or simple answers with two lines in the answer. It's because society is constantly changing. Not least, we look at the driving forces that shape youth culture. There are driving forces that are constantly changing focus, and we are still getting new role models. But there are still some basic human features that are constant in this topic. Everyone needs security in their everyday lives. It's that everyone also needs to get out of curiosity. And then, as governmental bodies, we have to make sure in different ways that that curiosity gets a positive outcome within the framework of the law. The right also believes that there is a fundamental human feature in all of us that we also need clear frameworks and boundaries in everyday life. So this is a debate that's going to focus on an ever-changing goal, a changing goal, but it's about mind-creating work. One thing is criminal law, which is affected by the fact that you're in the police records. But we need to talk about drug policy. We need to talk about traffic rules and respect for them. The goal must be in this debate that as much as possible, almost everyone, should have respect for the law, and that there is a high threshold to break the law no matter what age you have, or what sex you have. Right-wing involvement in this theme, in line with the involvement of all other political parties in the matter, extends across a wide range of policy areas. My interpellation here has essentially a starting point for justice policy, and we find a lot of tools in terms of crime prevention work in the field of justice. I myself have met many police officers and women and representatives of child protection and others who work with children and young people, who stress the importance of the police meeting young offenders and first-time lawbreakers in a way that also shows respect, and where the situation is not made even more difficult and more complicated for young men and, I would say, women. The anxiety conversation between the police and the related family is an action that shows good results, and which I believe is an instrument that stands out almost regardless of what social conditions and changing social conditions we're talking about. I have had many rewarding, inspiring meetings with conflict councils around the country – an excellent tool for precisely preventing future criminal acts by young people who may have made a wrong choice on the road. I mentioned that I have experience in municipal policy. What was difficult in municipal policy, in the same way that we also face difficulties in national policy, is to become even better all the time to link different professional prostheses and coordinate efforts across disciplines. This is not least when we talk about crime prevention. Here we have to look at the taushets rules that exist in public. Do they themselves prevent effective prevention, even if the taushets rules are there with the best intentions initially? But maybe they're also an obstacle in some contexts. A few weeks ago, we were on treatment in Stortinget, the big-time news of the fight against organized crime. There we also used a lot of the debate to debate the measurement criteria for police work. Several comments were clear that the future measurement criteria for police work must also include, to a greater extent, the precautionary element that the police are nominated to carry out crime prevention work. Schools are important venues for establishing good attitudes to the law. Is it a thought that every school, for example, establish a police contact? It is at least in my municipality that we did with good results. We've seen that drug use is going on far down in age groups. It's also about justice policy, it's about drugs policy, but it's primarily about attitudes when we're talking about teenagers. Should schools also be even more equipped to meet drug challenges in their field? The right is definitely saying yes, and we're coming back with a package on it. I would also like to mention cooperation with local businesses, cooperation between municipalities, businesses and the police to ensure that those who are losing their foothold at an early age have the opportunity to get it back on their feet by cooperating with good forces on low-threshold services and long-term measures. At all, the list is long over things we can do in this area. I attend the Council of State's response and come back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1039	I thank you for the interpellation. In my opinion, this is the most important interpellation we can have. Sickly if we discuss this many times in connection with specific crime, and we feel that much has been done, as the interpellant expressed, it is all the more important that we address this debate over and over again. The first foreign justice ministers often ask me is: what are you doing in Norway that makes things so good, that so many young people actually don't get involved in criminal acts, that so many young people, when you become a first-time criminal, actually get out of it? What is it that makes you not have the statistics that we often see in our countries? It's not always as easy to answer because it's just about a very diverse range of tools to bring a better quality of life to most people. For us who focus on the legal instruments, I think it is more important than ever that we discuss actions that may have – I kept saying – estimates in other sectors, but that also help to think a little differently than what we often do, measures that can help people stop earlier. I fully agree with the interpellant, I think as far as the post that was being made now was unusually good, I would like to keep that sail – would at least keep it sailed. But we're totally dependent on taking care of a lot of the norms and the symbolic power that we're clearly in the field of justice. We see that a lot of studies show that the boys look bad, worse than the girls do. It's interesting in itself, you could ask why not girls commit criminal acts to the same extent as the boys do. Studies carried out show that one in three Norwegian boys is targeted for offences at some point in their youth or young adulthood. Both this and other surveys on registered and reported maritime crime confirm that there is a clear gender difference in relation to the level of crime. At the same time, it is important to find that the same statistics show that for most of those who commit crime, this one crime will happen. It's positive. There are significant cases of up to two and three crimes, and there are only a few who continue to commit many crimes and commit many crimes, and who make sure that we have the right to travel around in debates and say that crime is committed by very few people. If we take out those who commit many criminal acts, we see significant results in crime statistics. The government's work on crime prevention is anchored in a number of documents, which are also referred to by the interpellant, among others. the government’s prevention strategy, which is an overall plan for community, security and cohesion, which came in 2009 – I repeat: community, security, cohesion. I believe that it shows that there are other instruments than pure justice policy that should also be used. We also have the government's crime prevention action plan, Good Forces, as the interpellant pointed out. There are 35 measures to strengthen this work for children and young people. I believe that those measures, when we see them being implemented, when they are reinforced, help to deliver very good results. There is every reason to give a great deal of credit to many municipalities and local police districts for the work they do. When the interpellant pulls out the need to watch how police officers meet younger people, I think he hits the nail on his head. Being able to vary in relation to what kind of instruments you put in place in relation to a young person who has committed a crime is absolutely crucial. It has been crucial for me and the government when we look at what kind of sanctions are presented. I'm glad that all parties in Stortinget support the alternative sanctions. I'll stay a little while by that. The interpellant mentioned the discussion of concerns. Going into a public debate, like on TV, and telling about the anxiety conversation, is a risky political experiment. It sounds a little daunted. But for those who are involved, for the family and for the neighbors and for the students who are sitting around, and who are being drawn into such a scheme, it is much more difficult than the traditional legal instruments. You're really being held responsible. In particular, what Oslo police districts have done, but also other police districts associated with a concern conversation as an instrument to get someone in the way of getting on the slope, I think, is absolutely crucial. The government has said that it's not just an instrument we use to treat the nostrils, but a tool that we're going to use all the way up to the most serious types of crime, where we see that especially young boys are at risk of being recruited against, for example. groups that could use serious criminal offences to achieve policy objectives, radicalisation. We've seen in relation to the right-hand extreme how important it is. The second thing I want to point out, which we are talking a lot about now, and which has received budgetary support, are the follow-up teams, which are very close to the work that is being done, among other things. in the Councils of Conflict. It is absolutely vital if we are to reach the young guys who are about to end up on the outside, that we are able to contribute, as the interpellant says, to get constructive solutions that get people back on the right track, get dampened conflicts and get less confrontation. In this case, prison sentences and traditional criminal proceedings are not always as appropriate, to put it bluntly. And I have to say, of the situations we have both in family violence and pure juvenile violence that have been solved in conflict management, that there are some fascinating stories. Those who claim that these are measures that are a mockery of crime victims are sincerely wrong. It is precisely the victims who are being drawn into these processes and see the truth coming for the day, also seeing the forgiveness coming for the day, but also seeing the repair coming for the day, which really draws the great benefit of this. Young people — and the boy, as is often the case — dare to face up to the school the next day, dare to face up to his own actions in his own community, making it vital for him not to commit further criminal acts. I also believe that what is now done to the municipalities is very exciting. I would like to point out that a total increase was for us to use police resources to establish police councils in the municipalities. We were supposed to use police resources on that. I think it's well used resources. At the last count I remember, there were 358 municipalities attached to the police council. It's the arena and, as the interpellant also calls for, a place where many forces can contract, and where you can see that crime prevention, especially against the younger ones, depends on us to do some action, whether it's about ghost politics, street lighting, leisure activities or what kind of reaction we can put in when someone's about to cut out. Even the SLT model, or SALTO here in Oslo, has shown amazing results, which make them – I was saying – those who perceive that prevention is kind of soft, something that just comes as a sort of final part of criminal policy, they're wrong. It must come first, and we must never forget it, because that is one of the reasons why we in Norway have a small population of prisoners. That's one of the reasons why we have a crime rate that's actually going down, and that's one of the reasons why crime levels are low. That is why I believe that many of the measures now outlined in the ‘Good Forces’ plan should be given greater political pressure. We need to ensure that they receive as much budgetary attention as the training of part-time firefighters and other important matters in future budgetary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1070	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The Government's response makes what is the Right's starting point visible, and which is my experience of this kind of debate we've had in the Storting, that they are characterized by a genuine commitment and a strong desire to do even more. That's why there's every reason to thank you for your answer. There's a lot of things we could promise to explain what opportunities we have. If there is one thing I would particularly like to highlight, it is that prevention must have deep roots locally. It must be established in the municipalities, in each school, in each local government. But in order to achieve this, we need, of course, a national policy that gives direction and provides some guidance on tools and instruments. That's what I hope this interpellation can get into – just a confirmation that that's what we all want. About a year ago, the Right promoted a proposal for a representative with 16 concrete proposals to prevent young people from recruiting for crime. We had a good debate on that matter last autumn. In the case, there is a majority remark from the government fraction that refers to the fact that there is a work in the Ministry of Justice with a legislative proposal with a notification part to be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2011. My final question to the Council of State is: Where is that proposition now? That could also be a point for the Stortinget precisely to bring this debate up in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1081	I believe that some of the most important crime prevention work we do is outside the justice sector, beyond the measures I had in mind in my main response. Let me just underline that. Here in Oslo, I believe that if you really want to reduce the crime committed by young boys – most often – and prevent recruitment into gangs, prevent recruitment into environments that we see often resort to criminal acts, yes, the Minister of Knowledge's efforts to prevent people from dropping out of high school are absolutely crucial. It just shows how multi-spectrum this work must be. The fact that you have given room for young people to take a course of education, as they do, without having to look at the wallet, and the similarity you have with the knowledge system in Norway, I think that I have been absolutely crucial to having such a development of juvenile delinquency that we actually have. So, over a long time, we've had a process going up against new criminal-law responses to children and young people, which the interpellant was in at the end. There we had the Taraldsrud committee, which took off in 2008. And, that's quite right -- it's planned by the government that we should follow up, and we suggested that we should come in with a proposition -- with a message part and a proposition part -- with the necessary legislative changes, for new responses to younger lawbreakers. It is largely because we want people under the age of 18 not to be placed in Norwegian prisons. We have to think alternately. My ambition is that it will come before summer. It is not in the department, it is now in the final phase. I hope we'll reach it before summer, but I've burned myself before to make such time statements, so I'm going to be a little careful, but it's just like around the corner. I hope, then, that we remember this debate that has arisen today, because it will be difficult for us to have to leave a system that has been chosen for a long time to use in criminal law – i.e. to a large extent fines, prison sentences and such more traditional instruments – and to think differently, and simply to the police and prosecution authorities through law, regulation and prosecution instructions that here we are to find a new track. It's an unusually important task, and that's why we're going to do it as a message and a proposition part. It's just around the corner, and I'll do what I can. I hope that might be the summer literature of the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1094	This is a very important debate, and I would like to thank the interpellant so much for travelling it. The fact that one third of young men have been convicted of a criminal offence really gives cause for concern. As in many other debates of this kind, our main tool is prevention. The best thing is always to prevent, and prevent, criminal acts. Many measures, both in the inter-pellant and in the state councils, are of a general preventive nature and are far outside the field of justice. We can mention everything from the importance of a good leisure and cultural offer to children and young people, to well-being measures, anti-poverty work at school, a safe childhood and youth where children and young people are seen and taken seriously, feeling mastery and not least belonging. It will prevent everything from health problems to drug problems and crime. An important measure is to deal with the dropout in high school, which was also addressed by the Minister of Justice in his last speech. We know that those who for some reason do not complete secondary education, in some form or other, can actually get difficulties – difficulties in getting a job, and thus the possibility of fixed income, owner-occupancy and a stable life is reduced. This in turn increases the risk of, among others. drug problems and criminal acts. That's why I'm very pleased with the work that State Council Kristin Halvorsen has been doing to combat just the dropout in high school. All good forces must work together here. Youth is Norway's future, and we have to do what is in our power to give young people the best possible start to adult life. The Minister of Justice gave an excellent account of the prevention and concrete action taken by the government in this crime prevention perspective. I'm not going to repeat it, but just notice that it's doing a very good job around the country. Many municipalities have also coordinated and organised the crime prevention work according to the so-called SLT model – Coordination of Local Crime Prevention measures. This work is incredibly important, but it can still be better and must be further developed. As far as measures are concerned for those who have already committed a criminal act, I have great faith in the rapid and close follow-up of initial crimes, as is done in many ways already today, and at the same time the use of the conflict council and the so-called major meetings. They've given us good experience so far and are things that we shouldn't leave. Fortunately, only a small proportion of the young offenders to whom the interpellant refers are convicted of serious crime. Equally, it is very important that, as a society, we use resources to contribute to the follow-up of these young people, who in turn contribute to their not committing new criminal acts. Drug prevention and health-promoting, education and training will again be the subject of stipends. Many believe, or believe, that stricter penalties against these young offenders will in themselves reduce crime. I don't think so. Few of those who commit a criminal act think at the very moment of the punishment they may receive if they are taken. In addition, when we know that many commit these criminal acts in a drug-induced state, there is no reason to believe that the level of punishment is important – and rarely will it prevent the criminal act from being committed. There are, in turn, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, not least of drug problems, much more effective crime prevention measures. The interpellant also focuses on the effect of different reaction forms. Finally, I want to talk a little bit about the prison sentence. Prison sentences are a very serious criminal reaction and, in the view of the Labour Party, should only be used in very special cases against young offenders. But when society sees the need to condemn prison sentences, it is incredibly important that prison detention is used constructively to help young people not to commit new criminal acts after release. It's doing a very good job in our prisons. I want to take the opportunity to commend the employees who really have competence and genuine commitment to these lawbreakers. I have visited both the youth unit in Bergen and other prisons that can show systematic and professional good work both in terms of attitude work, training, work training and in terms of substance abuse. There's actually a lot of sunshine stories to point out out there. I don't have time to get in on them now, but continuing to strengthen criminal justice is also important in this prevention perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1117	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this topic. When the Committee examined the proposal for a representative of the Progress Party, which dealt with alternative places of refuge for criminal young people – document 8:21 S for 2010–2011 – the prevention aspect was precisely part of the issue. If we look at society as a whole, it's clear that it's in the prevention work we need to do more. It is better to prevent than to repair, it is better to be in front of you instead of getting behind you. Much good work has been done on prevention. There are organisations, there are voluntary teams and associations, there are conflict councils, SLT schemes out in the municipalities, and there is a greater awareness on the part of the police about re-formation, etc. But I want to focus on three problem areas. The first is school, which many have attended. It's not going to get away from that school is an arena where one just has the opportunity to hit these guys. Many of these that we are talking about here meet a school day where most things are too theoretical, with little regard to the individual's need for more practical subjects, and not least the need for adapted training. The possibility of getting back some of the choices that one had before can be one way to go. The discussion is at least ongoing. Now I'd rather not use the word "dropout" – "departure" is, if possible, a better word, but it's obvious that many of these boys who later appear as criminals have not finished primary school. Many can neither read nor write properly, so once again, ‘early effort’ is a keyword. Secondly, we must grasp the individual's background, and I believe that parents in particular are responsible for their children. This applies to both Norwegian and foreign parents. The need for children to be seen, to be cared for, to be spent time on is a fundamental need of the individual human being in our society. Many children are not allowed to meet this need, as they follow that children are just testing limits to be seen and challenge authorities to get attention. Limitation means you care, and many of these guys say it themselves: if only someone had set a limit! In addition, we know that with many dissolved homes, where especially boys need and lack adult male role models, it becomes difficult to orient themselves, whether in kindergarten, school or at home. Because it is not to hide that most juvenile criminals are victims of serious care failure. In that case, the ‘trouble’ becomes a substitute for the missing family. I would also like to address the need to build self-confidence with the individual – self-confidence enough to say no! When we discussed Document No. 8:21 about alternative forms of reconciliation for youth, I had in my post with a conclusion who these boys are, from a researcher named Robert Cornell. I want to repeat it, because I think it actually expresses some of the essence of what we're discussing. Robert Cornell says these guys are often school losers. There is a close link between masculinity and crime. How do you get to work when you have bad advice, don't succeed at school, don't take education, can't look forward to a job that's full of status, and don't get in position? Well, by protest, by insurrection against the prevailing values of society—everything you don't have access to. This is where we have to start. We have to find these guys early to be in front of us. The signals about who this is, and who is in the danger zone, are not to be overlooked. Here, there must be interaction between all public agencies in the fields of child protection, health, school, police, etc. If we look at the issues that have been in the media in the last year, it is quite clear that this has not been the case. These guys have unfortunately often fallen between two chairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1134	I note that there is a cross-political consensus that the theme is important. It was just supposed to be missing, because it's about our kids, and it's about their future. It is therefore very nice that the Stortinget is with the government – and SV – on this issue, on the growing-up conditions of children and young people, that they should get good, positive arenas to grow up in, and stay away from serious crime. Governments referred to many actions that are also coordinated and linked in action plans, so I don't have to go into it. I'm going to get into a couple of important things in my remaining 4 minutes. We see that boys commit far more criminal acts than girls do. We have to take that seriously. First of all, it's about giving them an early sense of mastery – it's about girls and boys, but especially boys, since we're talking about them – in positive arenas: I can, and I don't need to use other, negative arenas to confirm myself, to confirm my identity and to get recognition. That's why this government has used a lot of political capital and a lot of resources to make sure that they get positive arenas already from childhood. It's now made sure that it's full babysitting -- we're using 26 billion today. kr on it, as opposed to 12 br. NOK when we took over. Kindergartens are used to provide these children with language understanding, language learning and social mastering regardless of the social background of their children, the level of income of their parents, ethnicity, culture, etc. They get the social and linguistic mastery feeling that gives them a better starting point on the school – which again the Minister of Knowledge has put on the agenda. One of her main objectives is to ensure that as little as possible falls from high school. We know that those in prison have a very low level of education — much lower than that of the ordinary population — so one of the key points is to ensure that children are admitted to high school. This is precisely why we have done secondary school free of charge, so that parents’ income should not be hindered by children’s completion of secondary school, which in turn gives them a better starting point. I fully agree that it is important that parents take responsibility – and not just the state, not just the public, not just the social offices or the teachers, etc. Parents must definitely be involved and take their share of the responsibility. This is a community, this is a virtue for our children, and parents should be in first place to do this job. So we know that a good part of the crime is committed in a drug-affected state. The other day there was a report by the Oslo Police on rape, and we see that approx. 32 pst. by the boys who were involved in the rape for some years ago were affected by alcohol, now it is more than 50 pst. So alcohol is a problem, and there I think the police have to do a job for the first time when it comes to suspecting all kinds of crime, but especially when it comes to rape, which affects women, the police have to do a reinforced job, get hold of the suspect, talk to him both to do a job against the perpetrator, protect him from himself, and any victims in the future. Once we're in a rush, it's, at least too many of us, raised above any doubt that intoxication is a very important piece of crime. Limiting access to alcohol and alcohol should also be part of this. Then I will send an invitation back to the interpellant. His party – and everyone else, but also his party – should contribute to and use in local government the ability to limit the donation of alcohol, thus helping to reduce the incidence of excessive intoxication and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1149	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this thorough and important debate. In many areas there is cause for concern for young boys as a group. Many suggest that primary school is better adapted to girls than boys. We see that the girls are becoming a large majority of universities, and the drop-out in high school is a much bigger problem for boys than girls. It's scary to see that while 74 pst. of the girls completing secondary education, only 62 pst. by boys who have completed secondary education in five years. Twenty-two pst. the end. A 2010 SØF report, Absence from secondary education and labour market relations for young adults, shows that, on a random day in 2007, there were 10–15 times more likely to be admitted to prison when high school was not completed. As the interpellant points out, this turns out dramatically when so many young boys commit crime — dramatic for the victims who are affected, and dramatic for the one who has become part of the criminal record in early childhood. In my view, this is an area where there may be more to prevention than in many other areas. We need to look beyond the pure criminal policy instruments in order to change such a trend. Good prevention must be based on short distances between those who can take responsibility in different areas. The police council is a good example of how good solutions can be found locally, for example: about the time of the gift. Police and local authorities are given a permanent forum for interaction, and the opportunity to find a solution together. The living communities must have close police as a cornerstone of their service provision, in particular in order to prevent youth. A local police presence who knows the conditions of the drug environment, child protection and a school that works together is a condition for us to control development and for us to put in place early interventions, targeted measures and measures that work. Prevention is to a large extent a task that can be solved by many actors other than those in the public welfare service. I would like to take this opportunity to point out the great effort made by non-governmental organisations for children and young people. The effort shall be divided into at least two areas. One is the activity offer, such as: 4H, the sport, the movement of the corps, the Red Cross of Youth, the cultural life of others and many other actors offer children and young people, which in itself creates safe environments and provides the opportunity to experience mastery. I am convinced that these contribute to a much higher barrier to get into vulnerable environments. The second is voluntary sector intervention and provision to local communities. Nightfalls are suitable in the cities in late night hours, the Red Cross offers to residents at asylum receptions, and among many, the Church’s Bymission has a range of offers to parents who need help and support. Therefore, the government's high level of investment through the VAT compensation scheme for the voluntary sector is crucial. Today, the scheme is over 600 million. kr, and shall be escalated to 1 billion by 2014. kr. This implies the greatest contribution of time to the voluntary sector — a sector that makes an invaluable contribution to crime prevention, especially among young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1172	First, I want to pay tribute to the Right to focus on preventive work and to my colleagues for good posts. It is important to combat crime by preventing early life in young people in order to stop negative spirals in some young people towards crime. Much could have been avoided through community prevention and early responses to young people at risk. Prevention is a positively charged word, which means that an undesirable situation or condition shall be prevented. The term is composed of the words ‘build’ and ‘before’ and can therefore be interpreted as creating a barrier or obstacle to something that is expected to be negative. It is easy to imagine that prevention is only prevention through awareness campaigns, school projects, cooperation between parents and police, etc. But also the effect of uniformed presence, effective investigation, rapid reparation and reparation will be both general and individual preventive. This would deter potential perpetrators, change attitudes in the general population and prevent perpetrators from carrying out new criminal acts. Therefore, any measure that frees or adds resources to the police will contribute to the prevention work, both by increasing the capacity of the youth prevention awareness campaigns and also by increasing the uniform presence and effectiveness of police work. The Christian People's Party will give priority to the work on safe streets and the community and the fight against everyday crime, which destroys people's security. That is why the Christian People's Party is proposing to strengthen the police's efforts to prevent and combat crime by 160 million. kr. But prevention is not just implemented by the police. We politicians, too, must be conscious of our responsibilities. Policy assessments and measures to reduce crime are important prevention activities. For example, I can. promote the fight against poverty, fighting for everyone to have a safe, healthy and well-growth, and what others have been involved in, abduction and drop-out issues. After all, it is to secure a civil society, to ensure a good track record of volunteering, to ensure a good youth environment, where non-governmental organisations are doing a huge amount of work. I can also draw up the laws on alcohol. Many Norwegian studies show that between 70 and 80 pst. have been discovered in connection with the consumption of alcohol by either the perpetrator or the victim, or both, of alcohol. Last night, the police reported that the same applies to rapes. Unique research shows that increased access to alcohol leads to increased consumption, and thus increased abuse. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed a number of measures to limit the high level of alcohol consumption and its consequences. The Minister of Justice has several times stated that he shares the Christian People's Party's wish for a tighter specter policy. He has, among other things, several times publicly supported the wish of the Christian People's Party to limit the turnout times, from 3 p.m. to 02 p.m. I'm glad. But it doesn't help much when the action fails. The Christian People's Party has also proposed measures: police and guerrilla inspectors can immediately close out the premises if they detect serious crimes, such as the giving of minors and excesses, they can review the alcohol law in order to ensure a more uniform and restrictive practice of the law, and, finally, to facilitate the establishment of more drug-free venues, cultural offers and concerts for young people over 16 years of age in cities. This is a good, forward-looking and preventive policy, which the Christian People's Party hopes that the other parties will soon come on the track and support. The statistics the interpellant referred to may be somewhat misleading, because, among other things, it is also includes road traffic offences. Many young male drivers have probably been a little fast on the gas without necessarily implying that they are in ‘risk groups to develop undesirable behaviour patterns’. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need to target the measures against those who are actually in danger, whether girls or boys. That is why the Christian People's Party wants to increase the prevention work, release and add resources to the police and conduct a good preventive policy. As the debate shows, the commitment of all parties is great. I'm glad, because this is about creating a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1200	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant Werp for a thorough and necessary interpellation and Justice Minister Storberget for an appropriate response to this. It is very good that has been said in the debate so far, for example. on the causes of crime, not least from the Åse Michaelsen Progress Party. There is no reason for me to repeat it, but I am behind very much of what has emerged in the debate so far. I'll pick up the debate from here and bring some more moments into it. As has been pointed out by several, rape statistics have now emerged, bringing forward a new debate. What we know about assault violence, among other things, is that so to speak, everyone has been committed by immigrants, and so to speak, all of them have been Muslims. They have some similarities. Then you can talk about what problems it involves, how this has become like this, and what reason this has. Today, many people come to Norway from another country. It doesn't take very long to fly to Norway from a non-Western country. Whether it's from Africa or Asia, it doesn't matter that much, but it takes a six-seven-eight hours. One physically moves from a country that is quite low on the UN statistics on all things. Then you move to Norway. But how long does the mental journey take, even if you physically move in six to seven hours? The mental journey does not take six to seven hours. It might take a whole generation. There is a lot to do to change the mentality that many bring to Norway through the assignment. But what we know is that most collectivistic cultures bring up children differently from what we're used to in Norway. You're not being raised to independence, but you're being raised to a collective thinking. We can change that through a public debate. I believe that the public debate does so at times, but it can be strengthened. Not least, we know that domestic violence is a problem that some groups in society are more exposed to than others. It's an incorporated part of the mission. The aggression that children get into, you don't get to meet your parents, because you're being taught obedience and respect. The frustration and amputation on which one then walks and wears must expire elsewhere. It also expires elsewhere. These are also things that you can focus on, but that we do too little. I remember, for example. former Minister for Children and Gender Equality Anniken Huitfeldt on the front page of the Newspaper pronounced with the index finger in the weather: Stop beating the children! First, there are no immigrants – take this with a pinch of salt – or almost no immigrants who read the Newspaper, about newspapers at all. In any case, no one stops beating their children because they get a moral index finger pushed up in the face. The Northmen stopped beating their children after a long public debate, after information campaigns, after we told the Northmen too many years ago that if you hit your child, you'll make it worse for the child. There will be problems at school, it will be more aggressive etc. The same campaign has not yet had time and strength to implement it against immigrants. Not least, we know that there are very many children growing up in Norway — in the world’s best country — under poverty. One third of non-Western immigrant children grow up below the poverty line in Norway. It is clear that it contributes to this overall picture of the causes of crime. Many of these children have no experience growing up in the world's best country. This is a problem for Norway. Yes, we will also get some ghettos in the future if the net emigration of the Nordics continues in some problem-based areas. It is not a problem today, but it is clear that tomorrow may be a problem. We have to do something about this. And, like in Norway, in other countries where the ghettos have been attached, for example: in France, the French State, together with Gilles Kepel, who is a leading researcher in radicalisation and Islamist radicalisation, is now investigating what kind of radicalisation takes place in these ghettos. It's clear that this is also an element that we're going to see more of in the future in terms of the young people who fall outside the school and outside the system. There are many things I can address: relapse problems, training in new crime in prisons, not least what those who have been convicted and who are in prison do when they get out. What to do – without housing, without work, with a lot of leisure time, etc.? What are you going to fill this out with? I'm going to stop pointing out that if we're going to be able to do something in the field of prevention, this requires more than just justice, from just the Justice Department. It's about school, which is under another department, it's about work, about social policy, about socio-economic status, about gender equality policy, about poverty, about dialogue to change the uncultures that exist out there. If we can do something with a number of these things at the same time, then I think we can do something, then I think we're getting a lot closer to what warp is interested in getting to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1227	I would like to thank all those who have had the word for just highlighting what I was about in my introduction, what the Council of State was about, and what several of the speakers have also been about. The genuine commitment that has arisen in the debate of every single person who has spoken underlines, of course, that this is the Storting's concern. We are all interested in finding solutions to be even better in such an important area. I want to draw out some main points that it is essential for me and for the Right to take them further. I want to start with the representative Raja. The integration policy got a lot of space in his posts – the heart's agreement! All the posts here have had elements of school and youth policy. The representative Michaelsen was concerned with this with self-confidence. I might rather use the word ‘self-image’ — the meaning of giving the growing generation a positive self-image. I think it is absolutely essential to stop at all the individual's idea that the crime is relevant. This with mastering has also been about – clearly important – getting a confirmation that I am worth something, that I get something, that I have a self-value that is positive. It's clear that it's involved in preventing crime or a criminal racetrack. I think the debate has been uplifting. I think it's exciting that we're about to, hopefully, get a play from the government, so we can lift this debate further into a systematized scheme to get even a few steps further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1242	I will just briefly address some of the challenges that have arisen in the debate. There has been a good debate, which allows us to put even greater emphasis on all the measures that perhaps many people see as completely obvious, and which may not receive the greatest external attention, but which is all the more important. The representatives Michaelsen and Chaudhry – and now also the interpellant – were concerned with the importance of the sense of mastering. I just want to tell Stortinget that the other day I was visiting Trukstad prison. It's great to see that not only in the police councils, in the conflict councils and in what's going on in the municipalities, but also that you know the end station of the crime control scale, namely the prisons, do the job you're doing now. It's amazing. In Trøgstad prison, we met with the prison leader saying, "We are a big message no. Thirty-seven. It sounds a little boring to me to be a big message, but it's the big message about the crime scene, where a whole bunch of people just sketched out what future prisons are going to look like. The young boys who are so unfortunate to get there, because they're going to jail, but who in many ways are so lucky to be in prison in Turkey, experience being able to take part in one of the 13 detention centres that the government has chosen to open around in the whole country – 13 of them. That means a lot when we know that 60-70 pst. of those sitting there have significant drug problems. They experience in prison in Turkey that they can receive school services, because there is also school established there, as we have done in all prisons. It's about mastering. The exams that some of the boys take show them that it's completely possible to master at other arenas than those they're used to. The fact that prisons now have the opportunity, through, for example, a good cooperation with the House Bank, getting housing when you are released, is mastering. Being able to take part in cultural activities – whether it's theatre, it's visiting the library that's in the same prison, or, as you have it in Trögstad, having the opportunity to go to a service square that's established there, to get work, meet Nav employees or meet people from the conflict council – is also part of the championship. There is quite a lot of thinking about the whole justice sector in this field, both around primary prevention, about subsidiary prevention and also about tertiary prevention, which I am really talking about here. I would also say, as the representative Heidi Greni had in mind, that without the will to do this work, especially by release, but also against young people locally, we will lose extraordinarily great values in preventing people from getting a worse life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1255	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1269	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1277	Then we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1310	During the debate Anders B. Werp put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Sections 16 to 16 of the Act shall be replaced by the following: If the company has not brought the matter into order at the end of the period, the register of undertakings or the register of accounts shall repeat the notification by registered letter, by publication in the electronic publication of the Brønn Island Health Register and in a short form in a newspaper generally read at the company’s place of business. [[2]] The letter shall state that the conditions for the winding-up of the company are fulfilled and that the company has a period of four weeks from the date of the letter to rectify the situation. The consequences of exceeding the time limit shall also be indicated.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1548	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1559	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1567	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 to 8 and points 10, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 9, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of Right Proposals Nos. 1-9 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 10 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 9, on behalf of the Right, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government assess the need for regulatory changes concerning the customs services’ need to use their vehicles as a call-out vehicle in some specific cases. The assessment shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposals to extend the scope of the customs service to simplify submissions in order to streamline the procedure and release resources for the police.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1609	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2 to 8 and points 10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose an extended customs authorisation for the use of photographs, fingerprints and, where appropriate, DNA in case of suspected illegal immigration.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests direct access by the customs authorities to the relevant electronic data register in the border control.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposals to extend the scope of the customs service to simplify submissions in order to streamline the procedure and release resources for the police.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests access to body control scanners at border crossing points for use in case of suspected smuggling.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of passport/id scanners at all international airports according to the Gardermoen model’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of today’s pilot system with electronic control to cover several border crossings with Sweden/Finland’.» [[camera at unattended border crossing]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary changes to the regulations so that the customs authorities can use blue light while calling and stop control objects.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive use of cross-border checks at the country’s border crossing points.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1667	During the debate Anders B. Werp put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the necessary measures be taken by the government to stop the collection on behalf of child abductors — contributions from Norwegian parents with parental responsibility cannot be made available by the abductor on behalf of the child, by placing child contributions under the administration of the head restraint — opening to seize the Norwegian wealth of child abductors as a criminal means — a Council is established to coordinate efforts between the relevant authorities for the assistance of Norwegian parents who have had children abducted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1707	There is no voting theme in cases No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1715	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-26.ana.ud1644e1727	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
