ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e41	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Today and tomorrow, the Storting has a visit to the Sametinge Planning and Finance Committee, and they are present at the gallery. They are here to follow the financial debate and to get information about the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy and work for the rest. We hope they get a useful and instructive stay with us. The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e51	On behalf of Sylvi Graham, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to investigate changes in the system of periodic penalty payments or other income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e56	The representative of Trond Helleland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e59	On behalf of Michael Tetzschner, Anders B. Werp, Erna Solberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to set up an independent dispute resolution body between the state and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e64	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e111	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 40 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 140 minutes, Progress Party 90 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes, Central Party 30 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes and Left 15 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged in the following manner: six lines of reply will be provided after speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and four lines of response by speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as by other state councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e122	The financial debate is important for the Storting – perhaps this is the most important debate of the year. That's the day we put the budget for the nation for the coming year. But it's also an opportunity to raise your eyes. There is an opportunity to align the general policies of the various parties. Especially the last is particularly interesting this year, which I'm going to come back to. It's been a special budget harvest. The contrast to what's happening in Europe is so far very high. The crisis in Europe is serious. The world around us is marked by great economic uncertainty. The financial crisis from 2008 and 2009 is not over, but is shown in other ways. In 2008, it was also at home to save the banks. Now it's about saving land. It is even more serious, and the international economic turmoil will shape Europe for a long time to come. Many countries have ended up in a very serious economic trap. They have a high level of leave. They have low growth. They should have spent more money, but they can't, because they have too much debt. It's all become a very vicious circle. When the debt is large, the loans are expensive, simply because the people who are going to borrow money to the countries are uncertain about the amount of the payment will and ability to do so. This means that countries have to spend more money on paying debts. It reinforces the problems. I have to say, it makes a huge impression on me to hear that the whole country of Western, modern Europe can, in practice, go bankrupt – that there is at all a discussion where there is a real alternative. It also makes a huge impression on me that in our own continent, politicians and governments are throwing cards for the benefit of bureaucrats and technocrats. It is almost a declaration of failure for individual democracies and politicians. It doesn't at all make an incredible impression of seeing heartbreaking reports after reports of resource-intensive young people without a job and without faith in future in piles of numbers in our own continent. Each and every one of them is this impression that should make people the most, us engaged in financial policy in Stortinget and the Norwegian big business as a whole, stop and look around at the drama that unfortunately unfolds. Then we must be prepared. We are a small country with close economic ties to the world around us. The situation in Norway can turn around quickly. On Tuesday we heard both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say that the crisis is blowing all over Norway. I can confirm that. We are already receiving messages from some parts of the export-oriented business that experience more difficult times. Unfortunately, we can also feel that we can have a new severe setback, which can hit Norway with great force. We don't know yet, but we have to be prepared. The downward adjustment of growth estimates for 2012 is another serious signal of the current uncertainty. The signals from industry about the raging prices of fish, aluminium and the car industry show that this is something we should take very seriously. Norway cannot afford financial creativity in turbulent times like this. We need solid, secure economic governance. That is why I am pleased that the government has announced a high level of preparedness and action if the situation worsens from where we are today. The 2012 government budget is a good budget, a budget that takes seriously the international economic situation, but which at the same time continues to build well-being. I said earlier this fall that the budget is «tight in Norwegian», and that is because we have said no to many things, to more things than before. We cut regional development funds, reverse permitting rules, carry on child welfare nominally, etc., and we also do a number of cuts in some departments. We don't do this because it's popular things, and neither because there's something special about doing these things, but it's just necessary. In several areas, we also propose to spend less money than many might have expected and wanted. I don't know what it's like with the rest of my colleagues, but as a fiscal politician for the largest government party, I experience at least daily telephones, e-mails, meeting in my office with people who have more or less well-founded suggestions about what more money should have been spent on, and not least suggestions on how to weaken the income of the community by cutting taxes. Many of these proposals are well-founded, but it's often also about seeing the whole, that it's not enough just to throw out for all good purposes. It's not going to work at all. It is worth remembering that everything that is not in this year's budget is also a priority. Because when we say no to a number of things, we can also say yes to what's most important – business, the workplaces that create values. But ‘tight in Norwegian’ also means that, within a tight budget, we have found room for important efforts: new and better roads and railways, more health workers, new health homes, more police, better preparedness, more culture and a safe defence. In addition, I am pleased that we here in Stortinget have found room for some further efforts in relation to the government's proposal. This means increasing the allocation to, among others. voluntary organisations in the rescue services, the rescue company, poverty reduction among children in cities, church buildings, Oslo cathedral and the Sjömann Church. These are many good suggestions. With these and other minor changes, explained in the financial position of the majority, I will make the words of a former gentleman from the Christian People's Party to mine: a good budget has become even a little better. So many people ask, what are we going to do in the future? The answer to that is pretty simple: we're going to do more of what we know works, and less of what doesn't. We're going to fence around tripartite cooperation, about the formation of wages in times of uncertainty. We need more simplification for business, so that businesses spend as little time as possible on administration and as much time as possible building values. And we're going to continue building the country through increased efforts at school, the elderly, roads, hospitals and the police, as we've provided every year under red-green rule. We are essentially going to do more of everything that has so far ensured that Norway is in a very good economic situation, a good starting point in a troubled economic world. It is about building and further developing a well-trained, highly skilled society, good welfare systems and stable business environment, and continuing to invest in education, research, culture and simplification. That's how we prepare for the future, both in this budget and otherwise. What aren't we going to do? At least we're not going to put the economy on the line with all sorts of creative budgeting methods. We're not going to have a more 'external' economy, which I see some people have called for. We're not going to be tempted by the idea that things are going so well in this country, so we can't try something new, a little bit more exciting, a little more creative – that can put the whole security at stake. And we are definitely not going to throw ourselves at an outdated and immature fiscal policy, from which the rest of Europe is now moving away. We're not going to do that. These were the government parties and how we evaluate the situation. But it's also worth adding a few words about a pretty interesting exercise: reading the opposition's alternative budgets over the past few weeks. There's a lot of work you could do. It is only to be noted that, as in previous years, it is full-blown on the civil side. To find out about some things on the cost side you have clearly in the setting. It's not an impressive exercise when you stand away from each other for miles on the question of where to cover this. In essential areas, such as oil money use, tax levels, distribution policies and deposits, there is a fundamental difference in opposition budgets. Although the Progress Party has given the impression that it is going to be more responsible this time, it will not be more responsible to make it a little more elegant. If you go into matter, it's about the same thing you've suggested before. Nevertheless: I believe it is Right that today must be regarded as the dominant opposition party in Norwegian policy – the polls and elections in the autumn taken into account. With that, there's a certain responsibility. As I have explained, these are very worrying times in the international economy. Responsible parties here in Stortinget and in Norwegian politics in general should use all their resources to form a common front towards the setback that may come. With the serious backstop, I therefore think it is quite alarming and in particular that the right both in the setting and in other contexts is working to establish an alternative reality picture of Norway, a different and worse version of Norway than what is real. My claim is that the Right picks out individual parts in numbers and statistics and deliberately misinforms other things in order to create a more negative picture of how Norway is doing than is the case. A timely question is therefore whether an alternative economic reality is necessary to justify an alternative economic policy from the Right? That's enough. I believe that today the settlement will start with those who speak Norway down. Norway is going well, and we have a very good starting point for meeting economically troubled times. If you're going to be able to put the right tools into a world of economic turbulence, you have to go into it with a precise and correct sense of reality. If the Right now establishes a different version of the state of the Norwegian economy, they will also bomb the instruments. It's like going to the doctor: if the diagnosis is wrong, the medicine is also wrong, and the wrong medicine in times like this can unfortunately have serious consequences for Norwegian workplaces. Facts: During the last six years of the Stoltenberg government, business and industry have been able to create some of them. 250,000 new jobs in Norway. Even after the financial crisis — the most serious setback in modern times, which hit the private sector — the share of private sector workers is as high as it was before the financial crisis; about seven out of ten jobs are in the private sector. Facts: The productivity growth in Norway has been similar to that of our trading partners if we take the average since we took over in 2005. Facts: the level of taxation in Norway is at the average OECD level. And the facts: Norway is not right to fall on important international rankings of competitiveness and growth, rather we have been rising on important leagues since 2005. All of this is bad if you aim to talk Norway down or prepare the basis for an out-of-date fiscal policy. Even when the vast majority of countries around us now either reverse or cancel tax cuts after the financial crisis, the right-hand side here still believes that tax cuts are the answer to most. It was their answer in the economically good times before the financial crisis, when it was tax cuts that were the answer. That was their answer during the financial crisis, then there was tax cuts that would apply. That's the answer now. That's why I think tax cuts are not a new idea, but on the contrary an old outdated and immature idea, which very many countries are now abandoning. I have just mentioned some examples of the claims of some who are deliberately trying to create an alternative picture of the state of the Norwegian economy and of Norwegian society. Now I think it's enough, now we're going to have to discuss what is the exact reality description of what is actually going on in Norway. We know that the situation is fragile. The real situation is so serious that we don't have to create another version to create more drama. It will not have much more consequences for Norway until the crisis is over. Some industries will get it tough too in the future. The highest price for such a crisis is the unemployed who have to pay — and ordinary people who work in ordinary businesses. That is why it is so important that we put in place all the forces to keep Europe's lowest unemployment rate, on a sensible payroll, on profitable businesses and on a knowledgeable people. The Labour Party and the government have run the country through crises before, we know how important it is to have a high level of preparedness and monitor developments out there. We have made sure that we are well rusted when no one now knows what can happen to the country. No one can fully predict what will happen, but I am pleased that we have a government that says that it is ready to trade again if necessary. Norway needs safe governance. There's something the government can do, and I'm very happy about that. With that, I present an overall position, where, of course, the government parties form a majority for all proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e190	The representative tried to give the impression that this state budget is well adapted to the situation. But two days ago, the Minister of Finance admitted that growth estimates had to be reduced and that they had to be adapted to reality. This happened without a single change in the appropriations or on the revenue side of the government budget – not a single change, despite the fact that a person admits that the world is going to be quite different from what one thought when the budget was created. In Stortinget, government parties have changed by 30 million. kr. It's $30 million. is it enough to adapt a reduced growth rate in the economy so that the budget is still up-to-date?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e197	In the case of $30 million. Mr President, we have covered it by cutting it into the budget of the Storting, which has made very good proposals and actions in the voluntary sector. As far as the representative is concerned about the downward adjustment of growth estimates, it shows how serious the situation is. But it's not that you should know overnight exactly what the medicine is going to be connected to what's going on. That's what's the big problem, the uncertainty is so big. We don't know today what kind of follows what's happening on the continent can get for Norwegian business. Then I think it's much better to hold on to the handles we have, which are called safe control, predictability and safe framework conditions. Then I am absolutely sure that the government, as in the past, if the situation gets worse, if we were to have a new financial setback, is ready to act again – it was shown in 2008. But today we do not know if that is what or other consequences this can have for the Norwegian economy. Of course, what the Progress Party must respond to is whether their government budget is in any way adapted to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e206	The representative, Mikalsen, does not answer the question. The Prime Minister has been out saying that next year there will be lower economic growth, but the budget is based on a different economic growth from that announced by the Prime Minister. When you think it's going to be lower growth, and there's a sign of salary growth of 4 pst. in the State budget, should we not now say what this estimate will be, so that we can have a realistic debate, and that we do not debate an out-of-date budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e211	The budget is in no way out of date. The budget has taken into account the very high level of uncertainty. Many people have thought that oil money should be kept even more in mind in the government's proposal, but there the government chose to put on a cautious, sober and careful use of oil money, precisely because you don't know what will happen next year. I repeat: I believe that what Norway now needs is predictability, security, tight governance, the majority behind the solutions that may be needed, and that the government must come back to the Storting if the situation is to be completely different. But we're not there today. Where we are, on the other hand, we have to make sure that we do not have an unwise use of oil money, as the Progress Party adds – unfortunately this year again – and that we have to get a pay balance for the spring that is adapted to the economic situation. I believe that instead of worrying about how this year's budget from the government parties lies, the Progress Party should increasingly gather on the civil side about its own use of oil money, which is quite special.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e218	This was almost incredible to sit and listen to – that the right is talking the economy down. If there is something on the right that has been said repeatedly, we see that Norway has a very strong position, and we are very pleased with that. But we very much agree with the committee chairman that we have to be prepared. What we are dealing with is a crisis in Europe that is far stronger than we have ever had before, and the state budget is probably marked by the fact that there are no priorities – that is the government's challenge. I would really like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Finance whether he is dealing with the figures shown by the national budget. They show that labour costs in Norway are above 150 pst. by our trading partners, and they are predicted to increase. They show that productivity growth in Norway has fallen – we were above our competitors until 2006, after 2006 we are below. Will the Chairman of the Committee refute these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e225	Here we have a new example that unfortunately right is trying to construct a picture of Norwegian economy that I disagree with. There is no doubt that the situation is very fragile. It is uncertain, and we can end up in a situation where Norwegian jobs are threatened again. But it is not right that productivity growth has gone worse. If you take the average from 2005 to today, it is roughly in line with the growth of our trading partners. And that's what's the problem: in the setting, I mean right-hand talking Norway down and creating an alternative picture of what the stand is like. For example, it is written at the very beginning of its committee comments that Norway has a particularly high level of costs and taxes. So we're on the average of the OECD in terms of the tax level. We don't have any strangely high tax levels. The debate should be about this: should we maintain an approximately average level of taxation in the OECD area, or should we cut taxes by between 10 and 20 billion? kr – I do not know how many billions to agree on on the civil side? That's the answer from the Right – once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e234	In fact, we have a strange tax level that goes directly to the ownership that will develop Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs in the future, so I will also refute that. However, it is quite surprising that the chairman of the committee is correcting what is in the national budget, and it is in fact that productivity growth in Norway has been lower than in our trading partners since 2006. We have to add here that we have a higher wage bill, and it actually requires that productivity growth also has to be higher. I think the committee chairman should address this as soon as possible, because there is Norway's challenge. We risk a two-part Norway. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, as far as I know, have also been warning against this. If we fail to raise productivity growth in Norwegian society to a level higher than that of our trading partners, the non-oil industries will face major challenges. Once again, I would like to ask: Has the Chair of the Financial Committee taken up that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e246	The answer to that is yes, to those degrees. That's the most important thing for this big thing, for the government, for the Norwegian people of the year coming. It's e.g. This is why the government has expressed the wish that we should have a new solidarity settlement with regard to the wage growth of spring – just to avoid getting into a situation where Norwegian wages are growing even more than they are doing around us, so that Norwegian jobs are not affected. But I want to go back to the point of why it's so that the Right tries to create an image of a strangely high tax level, for example, as you write in the setting. That's not right. So we're on the average of what's around us. When you talk about competitiveness, which I know the Right is concerned about, I very much agree that it is very important. But then one must also be able to add that we have a well-run society, a highly competent, educated population and good, stable framework conditions for business. This is one of the reasons why we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e255	The representative, Mikalsen, said that a good budget has become even better. I guess I'll just have to say that the budget is getting better after you add 30 million. kr on some items. I understand that the Micasen has had time to read the opposition's budgets, limiting itself to 30 million additions – or re-priorities – within a budget of 1000 billion. kr. Of course, then you have time to read good stuff from other parties. Since it was also pointed out that this was a solid budget, if I could help out a little bit with the innovation, I'd like to ask Micasen about his play, which is very similar to the Christian People's Party's play, that the financial industry might want to look at getting a little fee in its areas, which might give 6 billion. kr more, and changing this to remove the wealth tax on working capital, is something that might be new to the Micansen? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e264	The representative should then be given the opportunity to reply – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e267	With regard to the issue of removing the wealth tax on the so-called working capital, which I have seen, at least until now, too poor examples of how to manage to limit – in addition, it weakens the income of the community by many, many billions of dollars – I think it should still be in the drawer, at least if I and the government parties are allowed to decide. As far as the proposal for an activity tax is concerned, there is a proposal that has come up after the financial crisis, from a separate sample, the Financial Crisis Committee, which proposed a variant of it to compensate for the fact that parts of the financial industry are exempt from VAT – which the representative rightly mentions. The setting states that the government is now considering this. It supports the government parties, and I understand that even the Christian People's Party now supports it – very well. We're going to get this evaluated further. So, of course, we have to look at how different countries around us act around these questions, but there is no doubt that as of today's date there is reason to believe that this industry pays slightly lower taxes than many other industries that also have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e274	The left is concerned that we are in a new phase in the Norwegian economy when the wave of old age is now raging over us for real. We must then succeed in getting more people to work and getting more people to work longer. I'm a little disappointed that the Micasen wasn't inside of it in her post. But my question is about green tax change, as Left wants. Why is it that the government and government parties will not have the green tax change, as the Left seems very important, in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e281	Just a brief comment on the first: when it comes to getting people to stand longer in work and at all times exploiting our labour in a better way as people live longer, people will need care longer, etc., there is well reason to believe that there is no government in modern times that has carried out bigger reforms within this than today's government has. The whole of the pension reform, which contributes to this, has been implemented by a completely new conversion of taxation for pensioners, which helps to make work pay, and has implemented a reform around disability benefits and how it can be more easily combined with work. So I'm just saying, it's very nice that the left is also concerned about this. We are just making suggestions on this, and it is very good that the Left also supports a working line, where it is worth working and also combining work and social security in a better way than today. As far as environmental taxes are concerned, I see that speaking time does not extend, but I might suggest that instead of plaguing the government parties with this, I could take it up with my friends on the civil side, because there is no one who agrees with the Left, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e291	The backbone of this budget debate is numerous. We see a Europe in economic turmoil. Many countries have a debt crisis after they have survived and been plagued by corruption and slow red tape, or are struggling with a significant part of the economy being black. Norway, on the other hand, is a small, open economy. Anxiety in Europe can affect us significantly. Reduced economic growth in Europe and a lack of demand may affect Norwegian exports, and thus Norwegian jobs. Reduced real wages in competitive countries increases the pay gap and further reduces Norwegian competitiveness. We must have this in mind when discussing the budget. The government says that their budget is well adapted to the situation. I doubt, because when the government made the budget, they had foreseen relatively high economic growth, relatively high wage growth and low unemployment. A few days ago the government changed this image. Growth rates were reduced, but without a single change in the state budget. It is not credible when a government claims that the same budget is well adapted to both a situation of high economic growth and a situation of low economic growth. There is therefore reason to fear and believe that today's budget does not stand unchanged until May, but that it is followed up by a crisis package, as we saw in the previous financial crisis period. That's unfortunate, because then we don't really discuss a budget based on the conditions that everyone sees around them. On the other hand, the proposals of the Progress Party for an alternative state budget address the challenges we see, and the opportunities that reflect. We are presenting a responsible alternative that ensures the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and at the same time increases our production capacity. We take advantage of the space that today's situation gives us. We have ambitions besides managing the status quo. Our state budget strengthens the value creation of society and increases social security. It's not right now to do something about it, for example. the permit rule page. We give business better financial assumptions, and we stimulate increased labour input. We're removing bottlenecks in the economy by investing in infrastructure, and we're betting on research environments in the world class. We need to develop better and support entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. Good ideas created in Norway must also be more realised in Norway. This will improve the nation's ability to take new steps as an energy nation, as an industrial nation, and as a knowledge nation. It's the way we ensure higher value creation and wealth, both now and the future. The global economy has a turbulent and ongoing development. Old success does not guarantee the well-being of the future – one must have solutions other than to say no to all good proposals. Norway’s situation is quite different from that of our friends in southern Europe. It is important to keep it in mind when the government today will criticise all the opposition amendments, both from the Progress Party and from the others. While many countries have large government budget and trade deficits, Norway has high profits. The oil industry is a major driver. During the Bondevik government, the oil industry invested 284.6 billion. DKK in four years. In this current four-year period, it is expected that the investment on a Norwegian base will be 636 billion. kr. In addition, operating costs amount to approx. 60 B.C.E. kr per year. We talk about a significant number of financial crisis packages every year into the Norwegian economy. When, as previous speakers, red-green politicians boasted that there was an increase in employment from 2005, the figures of the Statistical Centre show that employment growth started in 2003 — the same year as oil investment grew. It is not a red-green policy that is responsible for what is now happening. There are situations beyond our control, such as: the oil industry is looking at resources on its Norwegian base that they want to exploit. We should be very pleased about that, and the Progress Party has supported it all the way. We have a big opportunity room. In 2012, non-oil income in the country is expected to be 303 billion. NOK – nominal, but still 303 billion. kr – higher than 2005. On the expenditure side, excluding oil investments, the expenditure on the State budget is 349,3 billion. kr higher than in 2005. It is no wonder that today's government can boast that they spend more money for all good purposes, because they have a lot more money. The question is, do we get something more for the huge increase in expenditure we have, especially when you think that the government budget surplus is expected to be 345.7 billion? kr in 2012? We have a good financial situation, but do we use it as best we can? Unfortunately, our answer is no. The space of action that we have, we want to use, and we want the ambitions and the power of action of the government. I find that the government parties at Stortinget after many hearings, after a lot of recordings, and after the whole community has engaged in resource use, are able to move in at 30 million. kr in a budget of more than 1000 billion. kr. Quick headcount says they've been able to move on to 0.003 pst. It is there that these government parties on the Stortinget have been able to adapt the budget to a changed economic situation after it was submitted. That's the result of many hours of work in the Norwegian community: 30 million. kr – and then one of them boasts that this is the purpose of which the Christian People's Party should be happy. Then the number 30 reminds me more of silver money than of millions, but it gets to be someone else's problem. The Progress Party sees large areas of action within the public sector after seven years of red-green governance. I record that SV's parliamentary leader, Bård Vegar Solhjell, admits in his new book that it is almost impossible to make changes – or reforms – in the red-green government because everyone is sitting and holding on to what they have. I believe in Solhell. The Progress Party's alternative budget will provide greater space for action for business and provide a more slim and efficient public sector. It is possible to get good people in public administration to work smarter, not just sit and doubt what the red-green government has once introduced. So we're going to give some tax breaks of about $21.3 billion. kr, and we slim down the public sector by approx. 15 B.C.E. kr, which corresponds to approx. 1.5 pst. by the expenditure side of the budget. We're calculating the dynamic effects of the surplus on our state budget at 344,8 billion. kr, while the government's budget is just over 345 billion. kr. There is considerable savings in future pensions also with the Advance Party budget. The Workers' Party and others like to make visible the Progress Party's tax cuts with lost health homes. Even NTB fell for that temptation. Let me therefore state immediately that the budget of the Advance Party provides room for more sick homes, not fewer. I'm taking a distance from a red-green mindset, where nursing homes are the first one a kutter if you're going to save 1.5 pst. on the expenditure side of the State budget. That's what red-green politicians like to think, but we don't think that in the Progress Party. On the contrary, we will target many programmes; it will appear in our alternative budget. We want to cut away the dawg, and we can make sure that we get a much better use of the government's money. Our tax policy will stimulate increased labour input. It strengthens our productive capacity. We give tax relief on labour income, which is equal to 6.5 billion. kr in increased minimum deductions and SEK 1,1 billion. kr i reduced peak tax. We give considerable relief to the business world. We do not support the increase in food tax, and we reduce car charges by about 4 billion. kr. This benefits both workers and business. Through these tax reliefs, we will also contribute to a more moderate wage settlement, as the parties call for, and which helps to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. It is important to ensure jobs. Traffic is the single area in addition to taxation policy, which receives the most significant promises in dollars and cents. In the budget, we increase the maintenance of road and rail, race and traffic safety by almost 4 billion. kr. We want to convert a little more of the oil income into capital in Norway than to financial capital abroad. It is worth remembering that when the World Bank visited the Financial Committee a few weeks ago, it was the most recommended, a commitment to infrastructure. It will increase the productive capacity of all economies investing in infrastructure, and it will benefit the entire population. And that's also the basis for the way we think about it. In addition, we're going to take the Senter Party. When the head of the Central Party at its previous governorial meeting spoke very much about the need to budget infrastructure investments in a different way, it was like hearing the Progress Party's long struggle. I hope we can reconcile forces in that matter. The Progress Party therefore proposes in this budget the creation of two State undertakings, to which a total of 15 billion is added. kr in equity – not for use in 2012, but for a room for action to launch a project and to be able to finance new national road projects and new rail projects. The order shall continue to come from Stortinget, but a State undertaking may act more professionally in the planning and implementation of the projects. Long-term planning rather than piece by piece development provides more money and more rational use of the equipment. But let me underline – there are still external contractors who are going to do the construction work itself. Someone will argue against this and call it irresponsible. But let me stress that this is 100 pst. in line with the principle of the rules of action, for those lots which are very suspended in it. The government has even used the same approach itself. A short time ago, Statkraft received 14 billion. NOK – not as a reduced dividend, because then you had to cut 14 billion. kr in the State budget to keep the balance, but by giving oil money directly into the company. Then we see that the yield percentage is maintained this year, and that means that the oil money that last year was oil money has been washed in a turbine this year and come out as a force money. Then they're legitimate to use in the state budget. We see no reason why it should be that if you build a windmill, it happens without being pressured into the economy, but if you buy asphalt, it leads to pressure in the economy. We're going to treat the heads the same way, and we're going to use the same tricks or the same principles – choose the word you want – to do this. Let me also stress that Petoro can invest as much money as they want on a Norwegian base. This year, they're expecting to invest 20 billion. kr. There is money that is never in the state budget, but which is still oil money, which would go into the oil fund if they had not been invested. No one is criticizing Petoro for this. The oil sector announced two weeks ago that they were going to have 5 billion. kr in increased investment needs next year. 175 B.C.E. kr will then be invested. I have not heard anyone from the government arguing about the pressure in the economy. In June this year, the Stortinget adopted four large oil projects, totaling 90 billion investments. kr in the course of four years. The rule of action was not mentioned in a word. But everyone was happy that this will create jobs, ring-fences, and future value. Better roads and railways are also increasing our value creation. Our nurses don't reduce health cows when they're sitting on platforms waiting for trains that don't come. Our engineers aren't productive when they're in a car queue. Just before the election, I visited one of the many oil service companies outside Stavanger. They're not very far from Sola Airport, but the engineers now have to spend half an hour more to get from the office to the airport. Before, they could budget with 35 minutes from leaving the job, until they sat on the plane, now they have to spend an hour and a quarter. There is no good use of Norwegian engineers. In terms of health, we're going to grant $2.50. extra to faster patient treatment. Fresh people work and pay taxes, people in health queues don't. That is why we have targeted efforts to cut health cows. We also strengthen the focus on labour market measures and apprenticeships. This will help more people to get to work. It's not enough to do what the government boasted of to ANB, the news agency, recently, to bring some extra apprentices into the government system. It is in business and industry's greatest potential – it is where the need for apprenticeship places is greatest. The progress party is proposing 250 million. kr more for apprenticeship grants, and we propose to remove the employer’s fee for apprentices. We're stimulating more apprenticeship places by over 1 billion. kr in our budget. We focus more on law and order. We propose to increase the appropriations for the police by nearly one and a half billion. kr in relation to the government. We have also started a debate on getting more police services back for those resources. The mobilization of the Oslo police against rape has shown that more police in the streets produce results. In addition, the tragic summer events have shown that police need to be strengthened in several areas. We need more and better equipped police, and it will be possible for one to get through the budget of the Progress Party. We're strengthening the municipal economy by 3 billion. NOK, which the party promised when we dealt with the municipal proposition. We make municipalities better able to deliver good care for the elderly and to strengthen primary school. We are transforming a number of public programmes to become more focused. For example, in research, we would rather focus on national programmes rather than regional programmes. For if we are to win, it is the competitors in China, Japan, the United States and the EU that we must meet, not just in Harstad or Tromsø. We better target green technology and renewable energy to increase predictability in the industry and increase taxpayers' energy back for money. It's sad when the government falls in love with the instrument and the institute rather than focusing on the goal. In our budget, we also give a significant boost to defence, and we do what we can to ensure equal treatment for pensioners, married people and unmarried people. Together with the opposition, we have also promoted a package of better conditions for research, volunteering, private saving and state modernisation. When the budget was presented at the beginning of October, the Progress Party criticised the Government for providing a budget without ideas and new ideas. We are presenting a budget of ambition and action. With this, I would like to address proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e354	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e359	I understand that it does not make any particular impression either on the Advance Party or on the representative of Solvik-Olsen when the undersigned points out the great difference in setting up, for example. a road transport company which is required to have funds from the State budget, and self-financing, other actors such as Avinor or extremely profitable projects on the base, or when the signatory points out that the large tax cuts will have consequences if it is not intended to be covered by other means. On the other hand, I would challenge the representative to comment on what his potential cooperation parties say about the same proposals, for example. the reaction of the Right's fiscal spokesman after the alternative budget of the Advance Party became known, that the Progress Party is building the country with a 'breast throw', or when the Christian People's Party leader, Hareide, says that the section of the Advance Party is irresponsible – they live in their own world. I understand that the Labour Party does not make a particular impression on the representative Solvik-Olsen, but does his potential cooperation parties on the bourgeois side?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e366	It will be a strange debate if the Labour Party believes that in this Chamber we will start negotiating with other opposition parties on government power in 2013. After personally agreeing to negotiate a predatory settlement, where both the Advance Party and the Left agreed with a very different approach, but nevertheless came out with a good product, I'm pretty sure we're going to be able to do it in relation to a government statement. But it's a little selective – not just a little; it's quite selective – when the Workers' Party and other red-green politicians all the way compare the Progress Party's investment in infrastructure to the fact that you can't afford money as equity, and compare it with Avinor. No, the Progress Party does not compare it with Avinor – it was actually the Council of Navarsete who did it. She was the one talking about Avinor and Statnett. The progress party spoke specifically about Statkraft, which last year got 14 billion. kr from this government to invest in wind turbines. These are the same principles the Progress Party uses to bet on roads. Then I think we should compare the two companies and not everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e374	If we look at what's one of the main causes of the debt crisis, the capitalist crisis around the world today, we see that there are two things going on again. One is that countries have implemented large tax havens, the other is that they have taken up large debts, and the third is a solid difference development. For example, if we look at the United States, the median income of an ordinary employee has been at a standstill for a 30-year period, while the 1 pst. The richest has left. So that model now wants the Progress Party to introduce into Norway. Through the fund provisions contained in the budget, there is a fund of several hundred million dollars that binds billions in the future. At the same time, the ten richest people in Norway will receive a tax return of about 50 million because of the cuts in property taxes. kr. Is this not a policy for the fewest and for a run-down crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e381	Unfortunately, there are so many errors in the reasoning of the representative Holmås that it is a bit difficult to refute everything at once. But I record that he says that we are now experiencing a capitalist debt crisis. It is interesting to note that when SV himself had the Minister of Finance, they did everything they could to preserve the capitalist system, even to the extent that then Minister of Finance Halvorsen supported commercialism in going shopping extra much and then showing his trading bags on the street. So that criticism comes from SV, I think it's a little strange. Then there is also a mistake about the tax model of the Progress Party. And we're going to focus on making the bottom easier, so we're going to increase the points of entry for the minimum subtraction and things like that. This means that, with lower and medium incomes, they receive more tax relief in percentage terms than those with higher incomes. So that means that you get a better job stimulus with our tax system, because it's often the ones at the lower wage level that give the most response when real pay goes up, as it would with tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e390	The representative of Solvik-Olsen says that the Progress Party has a responsible economic policy. He also says that the budget now presented by the Progress Party is adapted to the situation in Norway today. In the preparation of government budgets, opposition parties usually ask the Ministry of Finance to calculate the cost of the various proposals. However, on at least four occasions the Progress Party has chosen to declare sums other than those calculated by the Ministry of Finance. When one then compares this, one sees that the number of the Progress Party sums up to 1.1 billion. kr less than the Ministry of Finance has calculated; What makes the Progress Party feel better qualified than the economists we find in the Ministry of Finance to calculate the costs of the various proposals? And does the representative think it's okay to use numbers other than any other responsible batch, when they give the impression that they stick to the rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e399	For the Progress Party, it is not an end in itself to deal with the rule of action, but it is not a goal for the Progress Party to spend the most money. It's a goal for us to meet the challenges of society in the best possible way and get as much money back as possible for the money we spend. In the case of calculations, more than the Ministry of Finance has a calculator in this country, for example: has quite a number of central statistical agencies that are good at calculating, and they also make some of the models that the Ministry of Finance also uses. We're talking to more than the Ministry of Finance, because we see that the Ministry of Finance is very busy doing all sorts of possible calculations that should be negatively used against the Advance Party of the Workers' Party. That is why we are being examined for our own reports. We go to the SSB and ask them to make assessments. And then it'll be a good idea who we trust most in terms of assumptions and method choices. That's why we sometimes get a little bit different numbers than the ones that the Ministry of Finance gives us. I think that's safe and sound. I'm an educated social economist, and I know there's more than one answer to many questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e406	The Progress Party has major credibility problems. A conversation about climate and green bet, while requiring lower fuel charges on oil. It's said not to be believers. But my focus is on the conditions of work and the great social differences in Europe, which form the basis of social unrest. In Norway, one of the core values of the red-green government is equal pay in working life, so that individuals can live up to their usual, diligent work. This system is strongly challenged by the desire of many forces to import cheap foreign labour. Why does the Progress Party not want to ensure equal pay in working life through active action, so that working life operates according to the Nordic tradition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e413	I am a little uncertain about what I was actually accused of here, because the Progress Party will also have a work environment law. We believe that the rules that apply should be followed up and strengthened. But we also want greater flexibility for employees themselves, together with their employer, to be able to negotiate the working time they themselves want. I'm a grandpa. I know what it means to be able to adapt it – I have a wife who works the tour, and I need to get my grandparents to come and look after my children. I have a lot of flexibility in my big job because I can work at home. Not everyone can. They must then have flexibility to agree on this with their employer, so that they can adapt to the reality they live in, not the reality that the trade union movement thinks they should be in. With regard to what was introduced when it came to the environment and climate, the representative is completely wrong, but we are going to have another debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e420	I have a question about alcohol policy. The Progress Party is often not willing to look at research results that go against its own policies. It is obvious today that both the availability and the price of alcohol have a bearing on consumption. It has been fixed through repeated research results. I am particularly concerned about children and young people in this context, and my question to the Progress Party is: why is it so important for the Progress Party to reduce the alcohol tax and thus ensure that we get more consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e429	As a entertainer, I can say that although I know that there has been alcohol in my home, that does not mean that I always have to drink. It is possible to have an alcohol policy that ensures that people have access, without feeling pressured to drink. I am also concerned about the adverse effects of irresponsible alcohol consumption. At the same time, this is an emphasis between the responsibilities and opportunities an individual should have in his or her life, and trying to limit the unfortunate social aspects of this. I'm very concerned about that. At the same time, this has another side. To draw the argument that the representative makes, too far, would mean that if one just forbids it, then one is also even the problems. We have seen in some countries that have tried it, that there is no solution either. This is why it is about having a balance, where one ensures that the alcohol consumed takes legal forms — and not in over-consumption — to prevent smuggling, increased border trade and home-burning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e436	The party to the progress is, in its basic position, a strong supporter of the active use of the market in order to achieve the desired results. In a number of areas, the Left Party and the Progressive Party have similar views, including on putting the market into use in the environmental field, and happily also on the importance of investing in climate and environmental research and renewable energy. So far, everything's good. But in one area, we're clearly separating layers, and it's in the belief that taxes and taxes can also be actively used to change behavior. Here, in fact, the Progress Party is going the opposite way: the fees are going down. Is it the case that the Progress Party wants increased CO2 emissions? Or are there other reasons for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e446	In its proposal, the Progress Party strengthens its commitment to green energy technology by 50 million. kr. We are strengthening the investment in research centres for environmentally friendly energy technologies by 100 million. kr in relation to the government. Then it is true that cutting off petrol and fuel taxes can be perceived as environmentally hostile from the left. But then one should also take into account that the Progress Party has said that alternative fuels should have a tax exemption, precisely to give an incentive into the market. I believe that both the Left and the Progressive Party are united in the criticism of the government's policy, which is totally unpredictable. That's enough to think about the biodiesel thing. But right now it's a similar case that goes on Gas-to-Liquid fuel, where a user of natural gas – used directly – is treated as a fossil diesel free in a gas-driven car, but converted to synthetic diesel. This means that the environmentally friendly options do not come into the market as easily as possible. It is better for us to help stimulate the environmentally friendly alternatives to become competitive than to tax normal drivers who, after all, will survive in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e457	A few days before the state budget was presented, Prime Minister Stoltenberg gave a thunderous speech to the National Government of the Workers' Party. He said, ‘Protests will come in the autumn and there will be high-sounding demands.’ And on the other hand, ‘We shall steer away from any traps that are tempting in the short term. We shall make no a virtue." The figures gave a good analysis of the many challenges facing Norway as a nation. We are in a situation where many European countries are in crisis, where we have to count on uncertainty and low growth for many years. It also means falling demand for Norwegian goods and thus uncertainty for many workers at our export companies. The message from the Prime Minister was enough that we must give priority to creating security and well-being. The message was so clear that it almost gave horn music in the chest, not because it is especially funny to say no, but because it is absolutely necessary to be able to say yes to something better. If we are to build Norway as a knowledge nation and strengthen the competitiveness of jobs and businesses, we must also be willing to say no to something that is not so important. When the state budget was presented, it became quite silent – there were few protests, few loud demands, but many shoulder movements. That may not have been so strange, because most of us are doing well in Norway. We have good wage developments, we have low unemployment, and we have strong government finances. But the main reason for this was the lack of priorities. Instead, the government rejoiced to spend tens of billions more in 2012 than in 2011, and smeared the money thinly. It is not the government's analysis that is wrong, but good analysis does not help those who lose their jobs. I also doubt that future generations will thank today's politicians for a good analysis if they fail to build Norway as a knowledge nation. The crisis now taking place in several European countries has primarily explained that, among other things: Greek and Italian politicians have borrowed more than they can repay, and have used more than they create. They simply did not keep order in the economy. Yesterday the Minister of Finance announced that the budget's growth estimate is too optimistic. It is a signal that the European crisis also has consequences for Norway and Norwegian jobs. The challenge for many exporting companies is that they are now facing a falling market with a Norwegian krone that has strengthened and with a heavy backpack with a strangely high cost and peculiar taxes. The problem is that our companies have lost their competitiveness every year under red-green rule. From 2000 to 2005, value creation per hour in industry increased by 25 pst. This provided a basis for higher wages, more well-being or enhancing competitiveness. Since then, productivity growth has fallen, while wage developments have been higher than those of our trading partners. The result is a loss of competitiveness and may lead to job losses. These aren't really my words, but this is something you can read right out of the national budget. When we face the Labour Party with these challenges, the answer is the strong growth in the number of jobs from 2004 to 2008, and then we do not talk about Norway losing many jobs in private enterprises in the last three years. So what's the Right answer? Yes, the Right will provide security through knowledge and competitiveness. We are promoting a series of proposals in our alternative budget aimed at building Norway as a knowledge nation and strengthening the competitiveness of our businesses and our jobs. We have a great commitment to continuing education for teachers, simply because a good teacher trumps everything. While the red-green government this year has lowered the ambitions of the number of teachers to be trained, more than double the effort for continuing education for our teachers. We're going to make sure that the smallest children, rather than getting homework from assistants, get more lessons with schooled teachers. While the government has slowed down the funding for research, shut down the research fund and phased out the gift-enhancing scheme, the Right will invest more in research, maintain the research fund and the gift-enhancing scheme, because we need to create more because we need more information to facilitate the new jobs. The right will strengthen competitiveness. We spend as much oil money as the government, but we shift the growth in the budget from direct business transfers from government administration and operations to investment in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax reliefs. Yes, it is modern and right to lower taxes that help to make working more profitable and more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. The most important tax priorities of the right are to lower the tax for them with the low and usual employee income and to reduce a strange tax on saving and investment in Norwegian jobs. It's absolutely necessary in the situation we're in now. Over the red-green years, there have been several poor people. There have been several poor children, more homeless, and drug users who want to leave the drug scene, meet longer queues and longer waiting time. The right is concerned that we should have good welfare arrangements in Norway, but we also believe that it is time to discuss how we can make welfare policy work better. We are concerned that work is the way to well-being. This is why we are focusing more on targeted labour market measures to make the way into the labour market closer and to provide more training in the labour market. This is why we propose targeted measures that support leisure activities, language training, and we propose lower kindergarten prices for those with the very lowest incomes. The right also opens up cooperation with private people to address several of our welfare challenges. This is a change to help us continue to strengthen well-being, but also to get a welfare policy that works. Finally, I would also like to stress the joy of the fact that the bourgeois parties have come together in important areas. There is nothing new or specific for the civil parties in the opposition to present their alternative budgets and market their own policies. And so did the red-green parts. You can sometimes get the impression that the red-green government is also providing different budgets, but that's a different story. But I'm glad that the bourgeois parties have come together on important points. The bourgeois parties are united on an important commitment to research, which is an important investment for the future. The bourgeois parties are united on a vow of volunteering. Where the government has failed its own voluntary commitment, we are increasing the VAT compensation scheme by 200 million. kr, we improve the gift-enhancing scheme, and we also help to remove some bureaucratic arrangements for voluntary organisations. We're improving the savings arrangements. For young people who will now face a higher barrier into the housing market, we will improve the Housing Savings Scheme for Young People. We provide significant improvements in pension saving – private pension saving – to motivate more people to save for their own old age. In addition, the civil parties also propose to introduce so-called neutral VAT into the State. What is it? Yes, under the civil government, we introduced neutral VAT for the municipal sector. This meant that it was as cheap for municipalities to buy goods in the market as to produce the goods themselves. We now want to do the same in the state sector. So rather than health care companies building their own laundry facilities because they meet a VAT barrier with private businesses, we want to do this neutrally. This means that there will be more competition to supply goods to the public sector and it will reduce public sector procurement expenditure. With this I address the proposals that the Right promotes alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e503	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e508	I want to go back to what I said, that I think the situation is now so serious that I thought it could be possible for a responsible – at least apparently – party like Right to stand with the government for a common sense of reality, and that we could now bring together all the forces against a very worrying economic storm that builds up on the continent, which can hit Norwegian jobs, and which is perhaps already in the process of breaking into the country. So I want to repeat that I think it's a little strange that, when you read the setting, you get the impression that you're trying to construct a reality that is at least very different from how I read it – for example. that Norwegian industry is subject to strangely high taxes, as the right writes in the setting. In terms of productivity growth, it's quite true what the representative Sanner says, but it depends on which time series you choose to pick from, or when you don't recognise that after 2005, you've created thousands of new jobs. Why is the representative from the Right doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e517	When I hear this reply, I get the impression that the representative did not listen to my post. I just pointed out that we live in a good country, have low unemployment, strong government finances, and that there are many new jobs created between 2004 and 2008, but that since then we have lost many jobs in private enterprises. Then I want to remind you that the Right was the first party to make contact with the Workers' Party during the financial crisis and said that we want to stand up and stand with the government in the difficult situation. The same thing we've written into the financial position this time, that if it's required, right sets up. That's our historical tradition, and that's how we're going to act in the situation that's now. But I have the impression that when the Workers' Party says we should stand together, that means that we should mean the same thing as the Workers' Party – and you can't expect that. The right is concerned that we should build Norway as a knowledge nation, and that we should strengthen the competitiveness of businesses, and we have many good proposals that I think the government should also take the time to read.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e526	It was with some excitement that I read the opposition's alternative draft budget, especially with a view to getting together on important sizes in terms of distribution. If you look at the point of entry for top taxes, it is full of cracks – almost four alternatives. If you look at the wealth tax, it's full of cracks – four alternatives. If you look at the minimum subtraction, where you could at least assume that you could agree on the percentage, there are four different percentages. There is one common feature in the opposition's proposal, and it is that they are fundamentally unfair. It's those who earn the most, who get large tax credits, as opposed to those who earn the least. My question to the representative, Mr Sanner, is: will it ever be possible for Norwegian voters, against the 2013 elections, to reach a certain degree of civil consensus on key policy issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e533	The answer is: Yes, you can find it. If you read in the box, you will see that the bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction in many of the questions – that was also the representative of Storberget inwards – and one of the most important things is to increase the minimum deduction. The Christian People's Party increases the minimum deduction, the Left increases the minimum deduction, the Advance Party does it, and the Right does it. And why are we increasing the minimum subtraction? Well, because it benefits them most with the lowest and most common employee incomes. It makes it more profitable to work than to be in social security. It makes working full-time more profitable than working part-time. That's the most important tax promise we give. The maximum tax relief is to increase the minimum deduction, the second being a reduction in the property tax. Reducing the taxes on wealth is not unfair, it is fair, because the taxes on wealth have to be paid regardless of whether the company is going in profit or in deficit, and in the situation we are in now, where it is about securing jobs, I believe that the Workers' Party should listen to Roar Flåthen who agrees with Right that we have to do something about the taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e538	The right is talking very well for the time being both about poor kids and that more people are going to get into work. But when I've seen in the budget what the Right does, it's old-fashioned right-wing policy. Right container 240 mill. kr for women to stay at home and keep their kids away from kindergarten and not on the job, so they take over 1 billion. kr a year from single carers, for which the government will maintain the scheme so that they can have a safe income while qualifying for work. We know that qualifying for a job is very important for those who are single-parents, and they need a safe income while they do. Lonely dependants are in a different situation than other people, because they have greater demands on themselves. I wonder why the Right believes that Norway's richest man needs $3 million. kr in tax bill, while [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e545	The representative, Mr Sanner, will then have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e548	There were many issues at once. Let me answer why the Right turns the transitional benefit into a lonely caregiver. It's because we want to create a closer path into the world of work. We keep it for one year and grant exemptions with the possibility of extension for those with severely disabled children and those who are in education. Then we spend this money on labour market measures, on labour training, and on making a closer way into working life. But before SV throws stones on the Right, I think SV should ensure a policy that means that there will be fewer poor children in Norway, fewer poor children, fewer homeless people and shorter waiting times for those who want to get out of the drug scene. SV is a party with high self-esteem, but with low self-esteem in terms of a well-being policy that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e555	The representative, Karin Andersen, has asked for another line. There's room on the line list. She'll have a chance to do that before the representative Lundtigen gets her line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e558	First, it is clear that the representative Sanner and the right does not understand how the government's arrangement for transitional assistance is, that one year is to be active and qualify from the youngest child. There's a requirement in our setup, but the point is that you have to have a safe income while you do it, and be sure of it. The road to work is long. So that's how the right takes 1 billion. DKK of the income of the poorest families of children in this country and returns SEK 250 million. kr, and they seem to be a good distribution, while on the tax side, for example. gives tax relief to the richest man in Norway, who is Johan H. Andresen. It corresponds to the income of 85 lone mothers, what they should have to live on for a whole year while qualifying to get to work. It's the Right Distribution Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e566	I think that the representative Andersen should take a little trip around the coast and talk to the many small and medium-sized family-owned companies that are really struggling to get the ends to meet, who are struggling to pay wages, and who are struggling to get new investments, but who nevertheless have to pay taxes on wealth to the Norwegian state. Businesses that have a deficit, and that work every day for people to have a job to go to, still have to pay taxes on wealth. That's what the property tax is all about. It is about ensuring that businesses have the opportunity to invest and create new jobs. That's why the Right wants to step it down. Then I've answered why we're converting the transitional benefit for lonely dependants. We think it is more important to help people get a closer path into work, get work training and pay, rather than stand outside and get support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e573	The representative Sanner says that ‘the bourgeois parties stand together’. No, bourgeois parties in this room, by the right definition, don't agree on the large numbers. For example, right-wing economic policies are negative words for district workers. The right-hand budget for 2012 is predictable. Negative symbols are negative 1.7 billion. kr for food production and minus 1,5 billion. to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to combat the centralisation of jobs and people. There is a high cost of hardworking labor ants in the districts trying to create a livelihood, which every day is working to secure their family and their youth's future. Why does the Right want an even stronger centralisation of jobs and housing in Norway, which is the result of, among other things, the move of 3,2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e580	This is where the representative Lundteg is based on false premises. I would like to remind you that when the Right sat in government, there were significantly more jobs moved from Oslo to District Norway and to regions than what has been done with the Central Party in government – much more were moved out. In addition, the Right is concerned that the best district policy is about facilitating value creation. That is why we propose, inter alia: more seed capital. I have registered that the Labour Party rapporteur in Trondheim is asking the government to bring seed capital, which they have promised for at least one year. If Lundtigen agrees that seed capital is important, he can vote in favour of the Right's proposal today. If he agrees that it is important to facilitate better roads in District Norway, he can vote in favour of the Right's proposal today. To grant 1 billion. It is the best district policy we can pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e587	The last line also goes to the representative Lundteg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e590	It's interesting to hear that the Right's fiscal spokesman is really trying to create the impression that the Right wants to weaken centralization, that one should thus counter the development that today very many young people feel, and that they are taking the consequences of in their professional choices, because they are moving to Oslo and the glory to come. Seed capital is important, roads in the districts are important, but what characterises the Right’s policy on roads is that a harpsichord over – a harpsichord incredibly strongly over – the Minister of Transport’s commitment to roads across the country. It's not where roads are to be built. Has one from the Right now agreed to also change the priority of where roads are to be built? Then it has to be expressed more clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e597	I think the representative Lundtigen would stand by to speak a little bit more clearly, because I think the thing that really stabs Lundtigen is that the Right reduces some of the direct business transfers. I'm sure we'll do that. We believe that it is much more important to facilitate business through better general framework conditions, through lower taxes, better roads and more seed capital than to increase direct business transfers. Then Lundtigen asks whether it is such that the Right is opposed to centralization. Let me turn it around and say that the Right is too strong regions across Norway. I am convinced that is the very best district policy – make sure that we build up under the environments of Harstad, Bodø, Tromsø, Alta, Trondheim, Bergen and Hamar. The representative of Lundtägen should have recorded that Norwegian voters have voted Right at the municipal elections – from north to south, from east to west. It is because they support our policies, which also involve strong regions and strong districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e604	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e607	‘It’s easy to calm down It’s easy to take it cold When the world collapses around and around everything’ These are legendary phrases from Raga Rockers, the time they described the previous crisis in the transition between the 1980s and the 1990s. It is striking today too, because that is what the world looks like too many people around Europe. Around Europe, people face a harsh winter – not only in Europe, but also in the United States and in other parts of the world. While we sit here and discuss where to bet, the rest of Europe discusses how to avoid massive cuts that hit the population very hard. Let me take some examples of cut in Greece: 20 pst. cut in pensions in excess of NOK 9 000 30000 public employees are fired at 20 pst. increase in taxes on alcohol and tobacco 90 p.p. on taxes on bonuses for senior bankers Thus, differences have increased in Europe — in the world — over the years that have passed, between rich and poor in countries. At the same time, a policy of high tax relief has been pursued, giving rise to increasing disparities and debt absorption in several countries. One of the examples is the United States, which I remember from the time I was in the Finance Committee, and which we saw in the recent news, where agreements have been re-established with Republicans that ensure that the richest in the country do not increase taxes. So it's a hopeless policy, because what happens when the differences between people increase is that you get a situation where trust between people falls. So we have to pursue a policy that answers two questions. One is: how do we avoid Norway being hit harder than necessary by this crisis we are facing? And the second: is there something we can do in Norway to limit the scale of the crisis for others? The answer to the first question is, in my opinion, two-part. We must pursue an economic policy that is tailored to the challenges we face. There is no doubt that in the export industry in Norway today, which is one of the most vulnerable precisely because it exports goods to Europe, where the crisis is as strong as it is, we need to look at what we can do to avoid getting worse conditions of competition. It is about the interest rate, it is about the price of the crown, and it is about how we conduct a responsible budgeting – a budget that we are adopting here today – that ensures that we have this under control. Because we don't have interest rates and rates under control, we know it's going right into the export industry. All those exporting goods are most nervous about developments in Europe, and whether they export environmental technologies, or they produce other things that they sell. This is not the time for economic experiments of the kind proposed by the Progress Party. They have a policy where there is more to everything, more to everything financed with oil money, more to funds – hundreds of billions of dollars into funds to fund all sorts of bets that the Progress Party thinks it is worth investing in. In my opinion, the consideration of the workplaces is clearly more important than the requirement of the Progress Party to meet all the needs immediately. It is important, I think, to remember that the last time we had a financial crisis, when Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Finance, we were able to get through the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. Our goal must be the same in the times of crisis we are facing. We need the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, because having a job is, in fact, the most important thing to ensure people's safety. But we also have to be able to take care of the basic aspects of Norwegian society that have contributed to our success in such wolf times. Here are several aspects that can be drawn out. The most basic thing is that there are small differences between people in Norway. I have already said this from this pulpit: the most beautiful thing about Norway is that we have little differences between people. Small differences create trust between people and make us stand up for each other when there are bad times. This means that workers understand that they have an opportunity to get back on track, with the opportunity to invest in new industries and new jobs if it becomes decommissioned in the part of the industry in which they work. And we have the confidence that makes people agree to make reasonable compromises. One of the most important results we've achieved over the years we've been in government is reduced differences. It is a breach of developments that have occurred in Norway since the 1980s — with increasing differences — and is a break in the trend that has been throughout Europe. Changes in the tax system, with the introduction of taxes on dividends and the conversion of taxes on wealth, have contributed to this. When the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left propose to reduce the wealth tax – as a first step on the road to liquidation – and thus provide large tax havens to the ten people in Norway, and other people who have considerable wealth and who should be the people who were most willing to contribute to the community in times like this, it is a goodbye to the ideal of small differences. I believe that helping to increase differences in Norway is the safest recipe for getting closer to the crises we see in the rest of Europe and in the United States, because increasing differences break up the bond of trust between people. Can we have a role in combating the crisis internationally in Norway? The answer to that is yes, in my opinion. We are e.g. need to ensure that we take part in funding — and more — when the international bodies help the countries in crisis. There is no doubt that some poor countries have experienced the drought of investment due to the withdrawal of investment to their home countries. Instead, we need to look at how we can use our financial assets for investment in the poor part of the world, and we need to do so responsibly, so that we can ensure positive growth and development in the countries that need it. In addition, I believe that we should be an international spearhead to ensure that the wealthiest and the financial sector contributes more. The discussion we have in Norway about an activity tax, we are going to keep going, and I think it is positive that the Christian People's Party is holding up that debate. I believe that we should be an international spearhead in order for all, the richest, to contribute more to the development and distribution and to the international organizations. That's fair distribution, and we need more of that. So what are we going to do? Yes, we're betting on the environmentally friendly issues. We're busy with the railways, because it's environmentally friendly, efficient and traffic-proof. It's good for business, and it's good for a decentralised settlement. The railway and the NSB receive 1.3 billion. kr more in this budget. We're betting on children and young people's growing-up conditions, because it's important. This is why we are strengthening the work of a more practical and varied school in the fight against non-response and for more people to be able to implement. Elections will be introduced for the 8th stage next year. And we're going to put more emphasis on child protection to make sure that the municipalities that have small professional environments are able to do more for kids in a proper way. One of the slogans of the Workers' Party is ‘to create to share’. But the opposite wording is actually equally important: dividing to create. It's that we share, which means that we give people education and have the opportunity to research, which enables business to develop new services and new offers and provide innovation. It's that we split through taxes, which means that people aren't worried about their pensions even if the stock exchanges are raging, as opposed to awfully many other people in other parts of the Western world who have followed the recipe of the right-hand side on how they fund pensions. Tax is good. The parties that want less taxes want less fissile layers and each man for himself. It's a bad recipe in a world where we're more than ever dependent on being together to solve the financial crisis, but to solve the climate crisis, too, which is the biggest, real crisis our generation is facing. We believe that it is important to take a proper discussion in the time to come, which is about how to build the welfare state in a good way, how to manage to prioritize the welfare of the years to come, so that people can be sure that we have a good welfare state. Then we're going to hope that Raga Rocker's sad assumptions won't be real, not for the rest of Europe either, because it gets worse in the rest of Europe, it gets worse for us too: ‘I’ve tried to calm down I've been trying to be nice. But there's something that tells me. it is too late’» We're going to hope that we're out on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e682	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e685	The opposition has had a lot of talk from red-green politicians that we don't have one common alternative budget. Now the red-green parts didn't have it either when they were in opposition. But what's more problematic is that the red-green parties in the position barely agree on their policies. In previous financial debates, the Progress Party has been told that we are not talking enough about climate. In this post from SV, I barely heard the word climate, so the times are obviously changing. Then it is a bit interesting to hear if the lack of focus on climate from SV here means that they have now also fully submitted to the oil and energy minister's oil message, as one should expect, but as one in the media image has got the impression that SV is not really behind it. The oil notification adds to increased CO2 emissions, while the Minister for the Environment of SV argues that this government has committed itself to cutting CO2 emissions from the same sector. Is SV behind the oil message as it is in Stortinget now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e698	If Ketil Solvik-Olsen did not hear me say ‘climate’, he has not heard well after, because I said that the climate crisis is one of the most important crises – no doubt the most important crisis – facing our generation, and I also include Ketil Solvik-Olsen in ‘our generation’, although he has not taken the climate crisis as well. What I think is crucial is that the way we now get out of the crisis we're in, also helps solve the climate crisis. I was at the Zero Conference on Monday and Tuesday and had the pleasure of hearing Arnold Schwarzenegger, who pointed out the opportunities that lie in the development of environmental technologies to create jobs, while solving the crisis. But I also listened to the concerns of Giddens: one was afraid that this might not go well, because it was not enough ‘driving’. We intend to submit a climate report that will ensure that we cut what we have promised to cut off from Stortinget's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e708	First, I have to say that it is interesting that the representative Holmås in his speech takes up and speaks the minds of the poor, when we were able to read in the Evening Post a few weeks ago that Norwegian trade policy ‘is the poorest of the world’, and one concludes that Norway is the worst in trade with the poorest countries of the world. This must be extremely embarrassing for the Norwegian Government, as for example. in public space and in Soria Moria II, strengthening the ability of poor countries to trade – the opposite of what has happened. You've ended up in jumbo, the worst. The reason is the high customs barriers around Norway and the quotas Norway has on clothing, food and other goods from developing countries, as well as subsidising Norwegian agriculture. Is the representative ashamed of this union? And will the representative now consider the proposals of the Progress Party to cut customs duties and measures that can improve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e713	No, I'm not ashamed of that crew. I believe that during the period we have been in government, we have contributed to several important steps to ensure that the threshold is lowered so that the poorest countries can import things into Norway. The MUL countries already have duty-free access to Norway, including for agricultural products. For a number of other countries, we have also increased the possibility of importing into Norway free of customs duties, but it is true that not all countries in the world have free access to Norway, and it is true that not all countries in the world have access to imports of food into Norway. I think that is right, I think it is right that we maintain Norwegian agricultural production. What you can see is that the main problem for LDCs, the poorest countries, when it comes to exporting goods, is that they have not developed enough production lines — and bureaucracies that approve this — to export/deliver the goods to the EU/EEA area, of which Norway is also part. Then I think it's very nice that Jørund Rytman has a strong commitment to get equal rates of customs on panties – underwear, as we call it in Norway – and different kinds of other textile goods, but that's not a priority in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e720	I am sitting next to Hallgeir H. Langeland, and he tried during the debate to give a recording to Heikki Holmås that he had to talk about trains. So there you might have lost a voice, sir. Holmås! For the Right, the point about poverty is to see what SV actually does when they sit in government, and what they vote for in the Storting. It is a well-known case that SV's poverty promise has become a solid stomach patch. While Heikki Holmås has voted in budgets in Stortinget, there have been 50,000 more poor children in Norway. While Heikki Holmås and Audun Lysbakken have been sitting on the Stortinget and in government respectively, there have been 6,000 more homeless people in Norway, and with Audun Lysbakken, Heikki Holmås and Kristin Halvorsen in SV there has been greater self-payment for sick people in Norway. Is Heikki Holmås proud of what SV has created in the field of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e727	I always think it's pretty rude of the Right to draw up their own bet on poverty, because the first Kjell Magne Bondevik, Lars Sponheim and Per-Kristian Foss did when they came to power in 2001, was to remove the tax on dividends. It was 1.5 billion in itself. Tax relief to the richest – as much as they have spent on poverty reduction throughout their own reign. In addition, this led to the withdrawal of 200 billion. kr tax-free, an amount that would give 25 billion in itself. kr more in taxes to the community. So the richest people in this country save 10 billion. kr in the year of tax. It was Right’s policy to combat the differences; it was Right’s ‘more money to the richest’. On the other hand, we have reduced the differences by moving money to lone parents, where the Right proposes to take SEK 1⁄2 billion. kr during the next budget. I believe that we need to put forward a plan to fight child poverty, because children deserve to grow up without poverty, but the Right Policy leads to more poor children and more of the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e732	From the answer it seems that Heikki Holmås has been in government for six years, for then he has expertise in avoiding answering questions from the Stortinget. I actually think he could take the trouble to answer the question, but he is clearly ashamed of SV's fight against poverty. So to my follow-up question. Today, we have 3,800 drug addicts in treatment queues, in rehabilitation queues, who have been asking for a better state policy for many years. In the Right State Budget, which we are considering today, Right proposes that 400 million. DKr, e.g. to increase the treatment of drug addicts, to increase the rehabilitation of drug addicts, to make their daily lives easier and to improve society for a large number of people. Why do SV and Heikki Holmås vote for a better everyday life for very many drug addicts today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e739	I believe it is important that the hospitals within the budgets they have give priority to drug addicts, because the provision of treatment to those who are drug addicts is absolutely essential to ensure that they do well. But since I know a little about this and have some experience with it, at the same time I want to point out one thing, and that is that one of the biggest problems for a lot of drug users is that after treatment they come out to the municipalities. There are mostly right-wing municipalities, namely Oslo and Bergen, which are the most, the worst, where one comes out and is offered a hostel instead of good housing conditions. I noticed that Jan Tore Sanner said in the debate that there has become more homeless. Yes, there have been several homeless people in right-hand-ridden municipalities like Oslo and Bergen. And do you know what the Right is doing in Oslo and Bergen? That's where they take money from their homes, they take out about $300 million. SEK in dividends from municipal housing this year and spend the money on other things, instead of making sure that you have zero unemployment and have a good housing offer for the drug addicts who come out. I believe that the Right should clean up in those places where they rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e744	“We’re hoping we’re out in time,” concluded the representative Holmås’s contribution. Holmås puts his trust in hope. Over the last few weeks, many political ideas have been leaking around the government's follow-up to the climate agreement, among others. that the sector subject to allowances, i.e. industry and the oil sector, should be protected from climate change in the coming climate communication. If that is the government's policy, there must be huge cuts in the remaining sectors – yes, I think it is unrealistic. Climate change policy points to the need to take out the full potential in terms of energy efficiency in order to achieve our objectives. These are simple and inexpensive measures. The Soria Moria Declaration states that there should be a renewable energy base and an efficiency measure of 30 million. kr by 2012. That's this budget. My question to the representative Holmås is: why is there a vote today against the Soria Moria declaration? Do you just put your trust in hope?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e749	I think it's a good idea to have hope, because if you don't have hope for the future, I don't think you get to do anything special either. But you have to have concrete plans, too. Therefore, the discussion on how to follow up and get the climate message implemented is extremely important. I fully agree with Line Henriette Hemdal that there have been many thoughts, and a lot of thinking, about how to follow up the climate agreement. But here in this room there are a number of representatives from SV and Sigbjørn Johnsen from the Workers' Party who say that the climate agreement that we agreed on here on the Stortinget is determined by the government's policy. To point out one thing that I'm a little bit concerned about: I and Line Henriette Hemdal were together at the Zero Conference on Monday and Tuesday, and then we also heard one of the other partners in the climate agreement, Erna Solberg, talking. And she said the exact same thing as Line Henriette Hemdal says has also been said by others, namely that the cuts should only be taken out of the quota sector. That should worry Line Henriette Heimdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e754	As was said by the representative Kambe here, SV has long had a high profile for those living in poverty. I noticed that the representative Holmås did not mention the poor with a single word in his post, and I heard very well after. There have become several poor under the red-green rule. SV has repeatedly voted against targeted proposals from the Left and other parties in the run-up to a distribution message that would be full of good measures to reduce poverty. It turned out it wasn't right. There was a complete lack of action. Today, the Left promotes concrete and targeted actions of more than 2.3 billion. to combat poverty, especially among children. Why does the vote of the Left-wing Party not receive this important political work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e763	We are voting in favour of the budget that we ourselves have agreed to present, and that we ourselves have dealt with, after good processes between the different parties in the government. We're concerned with fair distribution. I see sometimes, or it happens often, what's a mistake from the right side: I talked a lot about fair distribution in my post, because fair distribution is a prerequisite for combating poverty. The fact that we are able to achieve a better distribution in Norway, among other things. by contributing more, we have more money to provide the broad, good welfare systems that help fight poverty. So I fully agree that some of the things that are terribly problematic, and that we have to do something with, is that there have been several poor children in Norway in the past. Here we need to put forward a concrete plan from the government that makes sure that children grow up in poor families. But I see that the left in this budget is doing the opposite. The changes that are happening in terms of the transitional benefit are going to help rage this, which is going to lead to more poor children in the years to come. It's unsolvable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e772	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e776	The result of a long period of international organisation for speculative financial economies resulted in a financial crisis. National states had to intervene, and the result was a serious, weighty sovereign debt crisis in many tone-setting western countries. Proposals for solutions thus impose burdens on most people in a way that creates social unrest. This is not surprising. Former Head of the International Monetary Fund, Strauss-Kahn, just presented this in a strong and alarming way at a full meeting in the government quarter right after Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen joined. The sovereign debt crisis is now taking place at an even more serious stage, namely a political crisis in several countries within the European Union. We must therefore now, from this pulpit, talk more about the conditions for a living and strong rule of the people. In a short time, both the so-called market and, in practice, the demands and opinions of the German Chancellor and the French President have contributed to both government change and the deployment of technocratic regimes in Greece and Italy. There are probably good reasons for both government shifts, but they're just as serious and thoughtful. In its form, democracy is a young form of society and governance, but especially after World War II, democracy has achieved hegemonic status. All options have been considered worse. But now we see that real and viable government requires a healthy and sustainable economic base. State finances in particular should be in order and countries should not be indebted. The first US finance minister, Alexander Hamilton, said that the continuing accumulation of debt is ‘perhaps the natural disease of all governments’. In many countries this has turned on, but not in all. This is coming a step in the direction of what kind of norms and values are prevalent in the countries concerned. It's striking to, for example, Scandinavia is characterised by relatively better government finances than many others over long periods of time. Perhaps this is an underestimated side of the Nordic model, which in turn affects the conditions of popular government positively. The ongoing crisis is forcing awareness and thinking about such relationships. Crisis times are demanding, but they also provide great opportunities for the revitalisation of democratic vocabulary. Major challenges require greater debate in principle and clearer choices in difficult situations. This is the Central Party pleased. Real economy and more sober, industrious human behaviour should be able to improve growth conditions after an unreal ejaculation. The basic question is: what do we want with Norway? What is Norway without shipping? What is Norway without woodworking? These are good examples. There must be greater boldness to ask such questions and give answers. The batches have to show more clearly what they want. The financial crisis, the climate crisis and the food crisis are the biggest challenges facing international society. The climate crisis is essentially the question of the amount of carbon in the atmosphere. It's the large emissions of fossil carbon that create problems. Renewable carbon, on the other hand, is part of the ecological cycle and is natural. The IEA, the International Energy Agency, writes in its annual report on the world’s energy future that ‘the door to the two-degree target is about to close’. The message is that there is a great deal of urgency about starting effective emission cuts. Dieter Helm, head of the EU Climate Advisory Panel, says that ‘the two-degree target has already run from us’. He says that it is ‘an illusion that the Kyoto agreement has led to a cut’ and that ‘the Kyoto agreement is as created to make the EU look good’. And he goes on to say, «The agreement measures the production of emissions, not the consumption of emissions-intensive goods.» China, which produces, comes out poorly, while large consumers of imported goods come out better. His proposal for a solution is research and development. Nor do we have any alternative to developing new technologies in Norway. There are many ideas around laboratories, universities, research centres and companies, and as elected representatives in Norway, we have the opportunity to create a country of the past. However, it requires a collection of power — both in research and development policy and in industrial policy. What's the most important thing to do? One of the answers, in the opinion of the Centre Party, must be to create business-economic profitability so that renewable carbon can replace some of the fossil carbon in goods that people need. Thus, research and development, as well as the government's recent efforts, are needed: investment aid, environmental technologies to commercialise good, forward-looking technologies and, above all, fossil carbon charging, so that renewable carbon becomes profitable in cultivation, harvesting and processing. Biorefineries must be focused, not oil sands. The transformation of our renewable natural resources into increasingly valuable necessary products requires knowledge-based youth and much better communications. Today's government has done far more than before to improve communications. Public investment needs to be increased in order to reduce the distance costs of this Nordic country – this country far north. The whole country needs to be better connected. It is in the districts that natural resources exist and must be processed. For the Centre Party, Public Private Cooperation is no alternative. A rich state does not borrow more expensive money from private individuals. For the Central Party, the construction of ports, railways and state roads is not the option of own state companies. Such construction must be under popular control. We need to better link our entire piggy country. It's a mandate most people in this room have with them from whom we're going to represent. People's security is out of control. Cost increases in this area are enormous. As our budgetary system is, our increased expenditure is only included in the impact-adjusted budget, and the necessary money is allocated. The alternative to today's budgetary system for communications could be for national transport at project level to be included in the budget as an impact adjustment. It will make the national transport plan process more critical, and the necessary investments will compete much better for scarce resources in relation to operational expenditure. The main point is: Reconnaissance needs to be done to be better rusted for, among other things. the more demanding international competition situation of the future. The forthcoming wage settlement will be very important. I have noticed myself as a big, big cross of thoughts the Joint Union leader, Arve Bakke, in Today's Business yesterday, November 23, commented on the estimate for salary making in 2012, which is 4 pst. There, Bakke says, ‘How, in the name of the gentleman, can you then believe that we who are the subject of the front will require 3.5 percent?’ It'll be demanding for the government – yes! But red-green parties have greater credibility in this area, based on experience, results. Red-green governments are responsible for a strong but responsible trade movement, for coordinated settlement, for tripartite cooperation and fair distribution of the income from hard work. With more of the Right Party and Advance Party policies, the answer is not dampened by wage growth. We can see that, for example. if one privatises more in the health sector. One gets a bigger wage fight and increased compensation of employees. Greater emphasis on local wage-fixing also gives greater power to detonate different tariffs. Therefore, the major challenge of wage formation is that red-green parties are better suited to tackle – and thank you and thank you for that! Finally, the Minister for Finance has put forward a tight budget. It's solid, it gives credibility, it's a budget in a breakup. Get to know what will be the situation of the next summer. Therefore, greater urgency is needed, including in the public use of money for the operation of Norway in the future. So more stringent priorities are required, and then we have to think in the long term, with a focus on justice. It creates an understanding of a more sober behavior, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e819	It's always refreshing to listen to the representative Lundteg, for he says what he means, and not what a propaganda department tells him. That's good. The representative talked a lot about climate and renewable energy. I very much agree that we need a stronger commitment to renewable energy than today. In his speech, the representative of Lundtägen argued against his own oil and energy minister in the case of oil sands. That is another area I would also like to see from the representative of Lundtigen, and that is the oil policy that is being pursued. It's okay to get a clarification of what you really want. The Centre Party's programme says that the Centre Party wants to reduce the rate of extraction, but the Minister of Oil and Energy, of the Centre Party, says that he wants to increase gas exports to Europe. So it means increasing oil and gas extraction. Is it then the party program that's right, or is it the oil and energy minister who's right, to understand what the Center Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e830	When it comes to the Central Party's policy, it's very simple. What's the right central party policy is the central party program. That's the way it is for the Center Party, and so I hope it's also for the Advance Party. So when we talk about renewable energy and climate, I had a necessary distinction there: climate is not primarily a matter of energy, but a matter of carbon. Carbon used in general activities comes either from storage carbon or from renewable carbon, and I hope the Progress Party can be involved in and further develop that thinking. It will revolutionize and upset the entire policy of the Progress Party, but it is necessary. The question was also linked to oil sand. Oil sand is a fact. Ola Borten Moe has said that oil sand projects will operate efficiently. We're very happy about that. However, the focus should be on biorefineries – not oil sands.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e839	As far as the carbon debate is concerned, I think Lundtägen is going to spend more energy on his own oil and energy minister than on the Progress Party. But I want to bring up another thing, and that's the speech to the party leader of the Central Party meeting on October 21, 2011. There she says about the development of the road and the railway that ‘a system change is needed to achieve an even more efficient and faster deployment. The whole system of funding needs to be reformed. In the country’s budgetary system, operating expenditure and investment expenditure are not distinguished’. Could the representative Lundtägen sketch out a little how the Central Party sees this reformable? The Progress Party fully agrees with the message coming here. We have also presented in our alternative draft budget a outline of how this can be done. So we're open that good ideas can further improve this. Since the Center Party has gone to the head, along with the Advance Party, to achieve such a reform, it would have been interesting to get input from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e856	The leader of the centre party, Liv Signe Navarsete, gave a glittering speech at our national government meeting, where she pointed out the need for system changes, for investments in three areas: state roads, railways, but also ports – there are three things I also ask the Progress Party to bring with it. One should not forget the ports. Norway is a long-distance country. If the spokesperson of the Advance Party had now followed what I said in my post, that is exactly what I tried to do, namely to give an alternative. OPS is not. It's not own companies. However, it may be an option for NTP to become binding at project level, so that it is introduced according to NTP’s timetable and simply adjusted accordingly, and that what remains becomes the political profile pot. Thus, a competitor can compete better for current operations, which is like one not doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e863	The center party is occupied with housing, value creation and activity throughout the country, there are few who are in doubt about it. An underlying element of the contribution of the representative Lundtigen has now also been, in addition to the security of society. Numbers from the Ministry of Justice show that the police coverage has fallen below the red-green government in 21 of the country's 27 police districts. The police are struggling to get their operating budgets to go up and cut their crews, keeping their posts on duty. This is not least noticed in the districts and in the county offices. So my question to the representative Lundtigen is: what has the Central Party done to strengthen the basic form of security in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e875	This society is made up of small communities and large communities. In the smaller communities, the security officer is the security institution. The Central Party has a long tradition that we also want to secure the L.A. so that it's in place. We've done a lot to get more out of the new money put at our disposal. However, for example: The Riksrevision's last report that we do not get it out of the money that Stortinget expected. It is a fundamental criticism that I feel lies below the questioner, which I fully agree with, and in which the Central Party agrees: Here we need to get more out of the money, among other things. so that money is used to secure police in the streets when it is most needed, namely on weekends and many times at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e882	The representative Lundtegen said very well about the development of technology and research, about the development of the good, forward-looking technologies – I think were the words he used. It is, of course, at the heart of the Right's message about creating security through knowledge and competitiveness. I would also draw the representative's attention to Rita Ottervik's play around seed funds. She has made an advance towards the Prime Minister and Minister of Industry, asking for the refilling of the Seed Fund, and she characterises it as very critical for the future creation and development and commercialisation of research unless it is completed. The right fills the seed fund scheme and allocates 125 million. kr to that scheme. What makes the representative Lundtigen and his party not support such a provision in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e891	We are behind the budget that has been presented. Unfortunately, I do not have the in-depth knowledge of the needs and situation of the Seed Fund that I should have in order to provide a competent answer to that question. We need a revised national budget, and if this proves to be an urgent need in a situation where competition and everything will be faced with greater demands, it is a relevant priority area. But I also want to link a comment to what was said about research and development, because the core of what I said there, is the need to streamline. There is a need to streamline national research and development interests in a better way and, in the context of a more conscious industrial policy linked to those areas with a high potential, great opportunities and in a challenging international competitive situation — simply using money more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e899	I was wondering for a moment whether the reference to the «lord's name» was an invitation to the Christian People's Party, but I understood it was in another context the representative used it. We were just told that the Nordics are getting thicker and thicker. That's the way it feels for the undersigned to be trendy, but from a public health point of view, it might not be that wise. We see that we have changed diets. We need to get people to eat healthier, and an important grip there could be removing the VAT on fruit and green. It will give a signal that health is good. There will be an instrument in the fat-collar debate and an input into the debate on public health. As a much-mentioned food chain – which I am not going to give extra advertising here – cut this VAT, increased the fruit and green turnover by 23.1 pst. in three months. Then my question is, When will the government meet public health and farmers and remove VAT on fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e908	Neither the government nor, as far as I know, the Center Party have any clear plan to take away VAT on fruit and vegetables. To put it directly: it is not certain that it is an appropriate instrument. I can only ask questions about fruit and green. It's so often. It's not all fruit and green that are equally healthy. It's fruit and green that won't even eat the deer. [[Laughter]] This indicates that there is something about what is not good enough. These questions are far more demanding, but having healthy and safe food is good. If one eats some fat, if one drinks some whole milk, it's also good, because that's what it takes when you work a lot and have big, demanding tasks in front of you. And there are a lot of people in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e915	I would like to thank Lundtigen for a good contribution focusing on the environment and research and now also on what is healthy and unhealthy of fruit and green. What I want to challenge the representative of the Centre Party is the framework conditions for the smallest enterprises and self-employed. Time and again, the Center Party has said that this is a priority area. For security reasons, the head of the centre party has set up a board of founders to get a recording, and he's certainly got that, because entrepreneurs are an active group, we know that. In the budget for which Mr Lundtigen is voting today, there is a reduction of 222 million. kr for individual enterprises having employees. Many of them are in primary industries and other typical district industries such as travel and transport. Then I wonder, ‘ How does this relate to the fact that the Center Party will be a founding party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e926	It is absolutely right that the Centre Party focuses heavily on smaller companies and sea-going traders. I think there's few in this room that focus more on it, because we have our whole tradition from that part of business. That part of the business evolves further into larger businesses in its own right. We're a production batch. So we want to make sure that group is better. The changes in the taxation of individual enterprises that have employees relate to enterprises that have employees with a relatively high income. It's always going to be a question of how to prioritize the funds. I can only say that the centre party is impatient on the behalf of the normal operators, the seafaring traders and the employees here, for this is the subshut that creates the vibrant, vital, conversion-friendly Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e933	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e936	If there are some green products that don't eat, we're more than happy to sit down with the representative Lundtegen to find out what products they are, so that he can still vote for a reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables. We're more than willing to do that. When we hear the debate here today, we are struck by the debates that are taking place in other European national Parliaments, that there may be grounds for recalling the following old song trophies: "Listen where it's storming out there. Here it is peaceful and quiet." It's not going to pass that we're in a very special position in Norway. It should really call not only for joy, but also for humility in view of the situation that hundreds of millions of people in our own part of the world are now facing, with tighter budgets, more unemployment and more insecurity. The Christian People's Party today presents an alternative budget that we believe is responsible. It's a budget for a warmer society, and it's a realistic alternative. There is a need to change the course in several policy areas — in the field of family policy, in the field of older people, school and volunteering — to mention something. Now it's an uncertain time. If we go back to 2008, the Christian People's Party was the first party to believe that the then state budget was not in line with what happened in Europe and the rest of the world. We are prepared to make changes when the government now also warns that the assumptions contained in the state budget no longer hold true. That's saying A. The challenge to the Minister of Finance is, what does that mean for the B in what he said a few days ago? The crisis in the European Union is going from bad to worse. I'm not going to go into all the reasons for that, but it matters to our export-oriented industry, to demand, and that may mean that we also need to put in place measures like we do at present. had not thought of us. If we look a little bit away from the heads and ears, that an opposition of 100 million there or kutter 100 million somewhere else, it is nevertheless most important for the Christian People's Party to look for some signals that are in the budget, preferably of a slightly more ideological nature. If I should mention one area in which we believe it is a clear ideological course set by this government, and which also has financial implications, it is within the sphere of family policy. I think that the debate we have seen in the autumn, with representatives from the government at the head, has shown that we have a government which, in its ideology, primarily believes that the family should be subordinated to other policy areas. In particular, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is a strong exponent for this. The family is to be subordinated to the working life. In fact, material values are placed in the driver’s seat. For the Christian People's Party, it is that the family – time, community and the values the family represents – can never be subordinated to other policies. It's too important for that. It must be first in the priority policy areas, at least for us. Parents are replaceable at work, but irreplaceable at home, said our leader in his national government speech a few weeks ago. It stands as a good headline for the Christian People's Party's family policy. We are also showing this through our political priorities in this budget. We want real freedom of choice. We want good kindergartens, but we also want a cash support that is real. We want good quality in kindergarten, and we want those who have the worst advice to get cheaper nursery services than they get today. In the election campaign, there was a lot of talk about the situation of the elderly and the guarantee of dignity. We believe that the government has not followed up what was an agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. In our opinion, municipalities should and should be compensated for the costs they are incurred when we say that quality is going to increase. We can't delegate the budget cuts to over 400 municipalities, as the government does with its plans. It takes place in a large way during these days and will take place in the future when the municipal budgets are to be adopted. That's why we're adding almost 1 billion. to ensure that the guarantee of dignity also has a true content. There are too many poor people in this country. We agree that the working line is important for combating poverty, as the government emphasises, but we are also quite clear that, in addition, it is necessary to target poverty measures to a greater extent. When you're not willing to do that, it's actually an obstacle to getting further into the work towards a fairer distribution, which I actually believe the red-greens are busy with. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible that the government is so passive in terms of action places. Not enough – they change the funding base for protected enterprises, which will mean that more of them can be closed down. This is completely incomprehensible from our side. In the case of promissory notes, there is very little going on. We take action and propose exemptions for those with the worst advice – for dental treatment for long-term social workers and participants in the qualification programme. We also want to eliminate excesses for health care and medicine for minimum pensioners, disabled and chronically ill. But it has a counterpost, and that's that we other people have to pay a slightly higher proportion. But these are targeted poverty measures, which I think the government should be much more active to help bring about a change in policy. The tranquillity in this country is simply not worthy of us. More than 4,000 are now in line for drug treatment. At the same time, a wide range of ideal institutions have vacancies. It's a bad economy. Not least, it's a defeat for us that we don't have the power to match the need we know is there. At the same time, we know that we have free treatment capacity. This brings me to something that we've tried many times in this room: the relationship with the volunteer organizations. I note that there is some positive in the government's budget for this, but there must be concrete follow-up, otherwise the words that appear there will be very little worth. Then we have to point out that in the voluntary sector we want a change, including in fiscal policy. There I refer to the joint proposals on which we stand with the other non-socialist parties. I also have to add that it is a great disappointment that the government does not deliver either on VAT compensation after an agreement with the volunteer, or for that part in terms of faith training. We would like to see the GNI share held up for international assistance. We do that in our alternate budget. We would have thought that the red-green would be involved. I'm going to go to a conclusion, and I'm doing it by drawing attention to what Ketil Solvik-Olsen talked about, that it was $30 million. which had moved into this budget since it was submitted and until we are to adopt it later today. Of course, it's too small, because you don't take the Storting seriously when you make so few changes. But I take a strong distance from the fact that Ketil Solvik-Olsen almost talks about this as Judas money, silver money. It is incomprehensible to me when we point out that there are shortcomings in the government's budgets, that this is being corrected, and that happens. I don't think private church buildings or Oslo cathedrals for their part view this as Judas money, rather the opposite. I would like to be that reference in addition. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e983	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e988	I agree with the representative of Syversen when he says that a draft budget is presented with the responsible use of money. I also think that the budget has a good distribution profile and that a number of good things are being done. The right has expressed their satisfaction with the fact that the civil parties have come together in different bets. However, this week the NRK has focused on the large differences in the opposition's alternative budgets. Special attention is paid to containment. I think it is a little impressive to agree on new bets when you do not agree at the same time on the impact of those bets. «The party's cut is irresponsible, they live in their own world» said the Christian People's Party leader Knut Arild Hareide on the radio on Tuesday. He went on to say that the Christian People's Party's policy is closer to the government parties than to the Progress Party. My question is therefore: Share the opinion of the Christian People's Party's fiscal spokesman on [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e997	It's always fun to compare the budget of different opposition parties, and I've realized that the Workers' Party and SV and the Centre have spent an unusual amount of time lately studying in detail the budget of each opposition party. It's just so bad that you get so little inspiration from these budgets, that the changes are going to be as small as what we experience when we're going to go through this later today. I'm not so much surprised by the differences you see when you put the budgets of four parties next to each other. Of course, these parties give priority to their own policies in their alternative budgets. It is that we agree on a part, not least to contribute to the improvement of volunteering, that families get better jobs, and that we have a working life and a business that can primarily help create jobs. That's what we're talking about. Then, as the representative points out, there are also some disagreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1004	I am interested in church matters, and I am therefore pleased with the additions we have now received in the last round, among others. to private church buildings and to the Cathedral as part of these ‘small’ 30 million. I think that for those that this applies, among other things. The cathedral and private church buildings, these hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars mean a lot, as the representative Syversen also said. I can enjoy this. I also enjoy reading other budget proposals from the opposition, and when I read them, it is difficult to avoid noticing that there is a big difference in the budgets, and that there is a great distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, for example. tax policy, aid, culture and alcohol policy. At the same time, there's a lot of notice that the opposition parties are coming together, and that's also said from the pulpit here. Is it so that the distance to the Advance Party is now smaller?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1011	The former church-political figure from the Workers' Party, Mr Opheim, is interested in the Church, he has shown that. But that might indicate that the interest has dropped a little since he left that post, when you cut about what is cutting, and the representative does not have that influence at the exact point he had before. So I'm also glad that some of the cuts have been fixed. Whether the distance is greater or less? I see that when the opposition presents its alternative state budgets, they present their primary positions. A completely different question is what would this look like if you put in a possible closer cooperation – just as it is for the red-green ones. But we have some common points that we've selected jointly, by having equal position, in the financial position, and I'm not ashamed of that at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1019	I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for a budget line that prioritises both poor children and climate in front of tax relief for the richest. I perceive that it is an ideological course from the Christian People's Party. That's why I want to challenge the Christian People's Party a little bit on an ideological course and the cooperation partners that the Christian People's Party sees for itself in the future, among other things. in the case of fiscal policy, because I believe that the Christian People's Party has a very opposite tax profile than the Right and Left and not least the Progress Party has. In the other parties it is those with the most money that gets the most. In addition, the representative told Syversen that he was concerned that the family should not be subordinated to the working life. What does he really think about is that the Right is funding its budget with considerable tax relief to the richest and cutting in the transitional aid for lone-parents with over 1 billion. Every year, is it from the poorest children's families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1026	To take this with fiscal policy and ideological course first: I feel that the non-socialist parties have many common points in terms of fiscal policy. Let me mention someone: we have a common understanding that volunteering should be done through active use of fiscal policy. We are concerned that jobs are not taxed unnecessarily – a recognition that I feel is starting to get far into at least the ranks of the Workers' Party. And we're concerned with a good tax policy profile, and the profile that we have in common there is that we all increase the minimum deduction. That means that those who earn the least also get the greatest tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1031	Yes, that's right – in the Christian People's Party's arrangement it is, but in the arrangement of both the Right Party and the Advance Party, it's the way that the biggest taxpayers – the really big money – go to them with big incomes and big fortunes. So I see that ideologically, it's not just a speck, but it's a sharp opposite to what the Christian People's Party is doing in tax policy, and what the collaborators are doing. To the last question, the big cut they make in social benefits to the poorest families of children, where there is only one parent, is 1 billion. kr every one year. There are some of the biggest cuts made in these budgets, and it does both the Progress Party and the Right in its budgets. What does the Christian People's Party really think of such a policy, taking off the income of lonely dependants and giving it to the richest people in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1038	I don't feel the need, above all, to be a defense attorney here for the Right Alternative State Budget. But I also noticed that the Right has points in its alternative budget that go straight to combating poverty for many groups, which we agree with. I do not agree with that proposal to which Mr Andersen referred. I would nevertheless say that it strikes me a little when we now hear SV's attacks on various alternative budgets, that you are very busy attacking those who earn a lot, instead of saying something about what you will do for those who have the worst advice in this country. Here we have challenged SV, among others. through our alternative budget. We hope that when we stand here in a year's time, SV has taken up some of the good ideas that you can draw from our alternative budget, to make sure that the poor get better in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1045	The representative Syversen once again had an interesting post, he invited us to debate a clear ideological course – something we are pleased about – and we would like to stress that the centre party has expectations for this. It was said about family policy that the family should not be subordinated to the working life. The centre party agrees with each other. At the same time, material resources must be sufficient to provide security — that is, labour justice must be seaworthy. The material values should not be in the front. The centre party agrees with each other. A real cash support – yes, it's reality. The centre party agrees. My question is: if the Christian People's Party focuses on a fairer distribution in all respects – with the family understanding that is a central part of the Christian People's Party's policy, which is based on it – why is the red-green government ideologically worse than the Right in the area of fair distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1052	I would like to have a discussion with the representative Lundteigen on family policy and ideology, because that is very interesting. Maybe instead of discussing heads and ears in all contexts, I think that talking about how a society behaves in relation to how to build the most important entities in a society is what is really crucial for a welfare society, not a welfare state – the future of a welfare society. Then I have to say that the debate we have had this autumn, where the Minister for Equality is subordinate to the family – for that is what he is doing – about all the other areas of society, shows the most crazy course you can pursue for a robust and future welfare society. Here I hope the Center Party will put in a serious blow to its government partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1057	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1060	In many ways – as the Left sees it – the framework for the 2012 state budget that the majority are ending up today is a little policy-free and completely harmless. It is a government budget that does not point out any clear course or have any clear political ambitions. Everything is about the same as before. I'm sure that's all right with too many people. However, that is not right for the Left. What is seemingly harmless today can quickly become dangerous in the long term – because the state budget means that there are some parameters that are crucial and that go in the wrong direction, as the Left sees it. Let me give you a few examples: the majority budget means that Norwegian CO2 emissions are increasing in 2012, in contrast to the climate agreement. Following repeated calls, no one from the government or government parties is able to point to a new measure in the 2012 government budget that will reduce emissions. However, it is easy to point to new measures that will lead to the opposite, including: large-scale new oil activities in vulnerable areas in the north and reduction of the CO2 charge on air traffic. The left stands for a completely different policy, which is also reflected in our alternative budget. Firstly, we use a number of instruments that the Ministry of Finance itself points to as being the most effective – namely through the tax system. We're proposing a targeted green tax change of over 5 billion. kr. We believe that the polluter should pay anyway. In addition, we propose a number of measures, including: investment in rail and public transport of 1.2 billion. kr, and additional climate and environmental measures of SEK 1,5 billion. kr. in addition to the Government's proposals. Overall, the Left shows the willingness to take both the climate challenges and the climate deal seriously. The majority budget means that the total Norwegian research effort as a share of GDP is falling, contrary to all the agreed and stated objectives, both in this House and in the Government Declaration. The decisions taken today to wind up the Research Fund and the gift-enhancing scheme support a picture of a lack of ambition for research and higher education. The aim of the left is to develop Norway into a modern knowledge society. Knowledge and competence will be crucial for future value creation in Norway. New knowledge leads to new businesses, which in turn contribute to ensuring the well-being of future generations as well. Norway's future starts in the classroom. The left will therefore have a large-scale commitment to school, knowledge and research, and proposes to increase funding for school, research and education by over 2.3 billion. kr in its alternative budget. The main bet is 550 million. to targeted measures to increase the number and improvement of teachers. The majority budget hardly means that there will be fewer poor children in Norway. Under this government, there have been 6,500 more children living in poverty, and this under a government that, with great pathos, would eliminate poverty. There are a few attempts to patch up the situation, while the measures that we know are effective and, as the Left suggests in its alternative state budget, are absent. The left suggests, among others: to spend 760 million. kr to increase social assistance rates by 20 pst. This means, for example: NOK 1 600 more per month for a single social welfare beneficiary with one child. It will lead to a change in the working day of the person concerned. Not a bad word about free cultural cards and other similar schemes, but it gets fast stigmatizing. What really stands out is to give economic space for action, so that you have the opportunity to choose to participate in social and cultural activities and to afford it. It's really putting people first. Overall, the Left proposes a targeted effort to combat poverty, especially in the case of children, of 2.3 billion. kr. In fiscal policy, the government promised tax relief to trade unions and farmers long before the state budget was presented. The result is that there are lonely carers in Oslo and self-employed people who get the tax bill. For the Left, this is the wrong priority, and that is the priority policy. The main priority of the left in its alternative state budget is more jobs and more in work. We're re-prioritizing almost 9 billion. kr in a large-scale effort to meet tomorrow's challenges of investing in innovation and participation. Both in terms of the short-term challenges of economic turmoil in the countries around us and in terms of the long-term challenges of an ageing population, this is a proper and necessary strategy. Therefore, the Left Tax System actively uses to promote work and to develop, operate and own Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian businesses. For this reason, the Left proposes a series of targeted actions on the expenditure side of the State budget, both to facilitate the start-up and business of enterprises, to get more of those outside, to enter the ordinary labour market and to get people to work longer in line with the intention of the pension agreement. This, in the view of the Left, is a decisive commitment to the future. In order to create and secure jobs, it is essential to provide a general, good framework for all sectors of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of unborn enterprises and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. Our public well-being depends entirely on value creation and private business, and that initiative-rich people rate, take risks, and turn ideas into action. For the left, it's about putting those who dare, those who bet and take a risk, first. A good business policy is one of the pillars to ensure future well-being. Another is getting more of those who are currently outside the labour market to work. We're totally dependent on more people choosing to work longer, and we're able to include a lot more people in the world of work. Today there are almost 600,000 people, or 20 pst. by all persons in pre-employment, on some social security benefits rather than in employment. The Financial Committee has been through two days with extensive budgetary consultations. Many good recordings have come in, and I am especially pleased that so many express support for several of the main left-hand bets, including: a real green tax shift and a comprehensive commitment to research, education and innovation. After two days of hearings, it was to be thought that the government parties were also prepared to make some changes, based on the recordings that were made. But of the 30 million. kr on which the government parties have been allowed to change, on which several have been involved, there is no commitment to the matters on which we in the Left wish to invest in our alternative budget. Finally, I refer to the many suggestions made by the Left in the three settings we are currently dealing with. I don't expect to get a majority for so many of the proposals, but I hope I see them again in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1092	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1097	The left has traditionally been a hot defender of the centre of Norwegian politics. At the same time, we see an emerging debate on the ideological basis both for the Left and for their possible future right-hand partners. Young Left believes that the Left should cooperate with the Progress Party, while some of the Left's elected trustees stress that the Left is a civil and social liberal party, that the Progress Party is not, and that the Left should therefore remain at the centre. If we look at the alternative budget of the Left, it can be seen as an expression of the fact that the Left has now chosen cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party and left the centre, when they reach, among other things. have proposed to abandon a redistributive tax policy and provide a tax cut that will provide ordinary employees with about one hundredth of a tax cut, while those with more than three million. kr in income receives NOK 30000 in tax deduction. Does the representative Tenden agree with this interpretation of the alternative budget of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1106	I thank you for the question. As for who you're going to cooperate with, I hope the representative Irene Johansen can wait a little while. We have focused on the government's budget, read it carefully. We've spent the whole autumn creating our alternative budget, and it's based on Left's policy. It's based on what the left has gone to, so we're safe and solid on our own legs, and then we'll see what it brings. But it's not like the government parties have been very kind to the Left in relation to voting for many of the proposals we've had over the six years we've been in opposition. So some cooperation from the Workers' Party has at least not been.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1114	The left is engrossed in its alternative state budget of various tax-enhancing environmental taxes, which they use to detect other tax measures. They're the only ones on the civil side. Then I wonder: Does the representative tend from the Left think that these are realistic proposals, for which the Left could be impressed in any civil cooperation? We could hear in the line change before today that the Tend was also concerned about it in his line to the Progress Party? Or could the Left come into a situation like the previous time they were in government, where they got massive tax cuts with poor distribution profile, but no tightening of environmental taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1121	I thank you for the question and the representative has noticed the tough grip we have taken. We're actually the only party that has taken exactly the tough environmental approach, which is important for the future. And as I said from the pulpit instead, there were actually more at the hearing that talked about that here it was actually possible to do some tough grip in view of a more climate-friendly future. We don't, and that's perhaps the biggest objection I have to the Workers' Party – that that doesn't happen. So I forgot the last question. Have you forgotten that too, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1128	No, but I'm not allowed to take the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1133	The President just wants to tell you that one question is allowed, and then you get to answer the questions you've been able to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1136	As far as cooperation with the Progress Party is concerned, which I believe the representative thought, it is such that I challenged the Progress Party on it instead – and got an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1141	I will first lament and correct a misunderstanding, actually a mistake, from my side instead. That's where I said the Left cut in the transitional mound. It's not Left Policy, it's Right Policy. So you could say that it's not that easy to see the difference between Right Policy and Left Policy always, but I still think it's right to correct it. Let me do one thing that I really wonder about with the Left's budget, and that's: what in the world is what the Left has against fruit and green? Year after year, it's solidly cut the money into fruit and green. The young shall not receive fruit and vegetables at school paid by the community. They have to take care of that for themselves. It's a targeted cut, right into the school class, you're going in and you're going to take fruit and green. Then they say, "We'd rather have more teachers." But that's not right. Instead, they use the money to give tax relief to the most wealthy people in this country. 767 million. kr shall enter directly to lubricate the property tax. The 338 richest will get over 500 000 more – right from the kids, to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1148	First, I would like to thank the representative Holmås for correcting that error himself, because I reacted very strongly when the representative said what he said instead. So maybe I could quote Lundtegen that it's not all fruit and green that's as healthy and as good. I'm not going to do that, but I'm going to say how we spend that money. We use them for more teachers, we use them for teacher training, we use them for research, we use them for knowledge, we use them for the future. Then I'm very disappointed with the policy SV currently leading towards those who need it the most. I was very surprised that the representative did not mention poor children or poverty in his post at all when he had the word in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1155	I understand to the left that they believe that poor children will get better if they lose fruit and green at their school, both on the eastern edge here in Oslo and in the rest of the country. That's not right. The money taken from there can be used anywhere else in the alternative government budget of the Left. If you look through the alternative government budget of the Left, they're going to spend 776 million. to reduce taxes on wealth, and not on any part of the taxes on wealth, but on the stock. You put in a discount, so that those who own a lot of shares get targeted less tax. We're not talking about old pensioners who have a house, or other people who have a cabin -- no, we're talking about a targeting against those who sit on the biggest stock wealth. It's shipowners, and it's other big investors. So the Left believes it's right to say that children who go to school, whether they're poor or rich, don't get fruit and green, while the richest will get tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1162	It is nothing new that SV does not focus on value creation. The only SV has focus on is distribution. But the values actually have to be created first, and there's a lesson that I might have thought SV had learned in the years they've been in government. The stock discount we're talking about here is simply about value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1167	The left is concerned with the climate, and that's good. Climate is a question of the amount of carbon in the atmosphere. The source is storage carbon or renewable carbon, and the problem is the storage carbon. Renewable carbon comes first from plants, and one of the most important plants is forest. Today's terrestrial reality is that there's low profitability in forestry; there's little activity; there's a great opportunity for progress. The left takes away 100 million. SEK for forest roads and planting. The centre party is trying to stand for a soil-near green policy, and we thought the left agreed that it was important to have a larger production of renewable carbon. One hundred million. kr i minus does not increase activity in forestry. The question is: Is increased activity in forestry unlucky from a climate perspective, seen with the Left's eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1174	No, definitely not. This is a round like Lundtigen and I tend to have every year – it's probably the sixth year now – and it's going on grandling, I know, which Lundtigen is very concerned about, and to which we in the Left have been critical. The massive subsidisation of sprawling in the West, which took place in the 1970s, and the massive expansion of forest roads, we believe in the Left, has failed. It is simply because of the diversity of nature and biodiversity. Then we just have to disagree about it. It is enough spruce in this country if we are not to subsidize planting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1180	I agree that grandling in the West can be discussed, but I understand that grandling in the country may be appropriate, and that it is also important to bring up new forests where it is natural to have spruce. Then left has reoriented something, and it's nice. But the left also takes away appropriations for forest roads. It's actually like when a chopper logs, you have to have it out a decent way, and then you have to have roads. Reductions in appropriations reduce opportunities. My question is: why is the Left so concerned about tying up increased activity in forestry when it is one of the leading sources for reducing the emissions of non-renewable carbon? There's something that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1189	With all due respect: Lundtigen has a lot more knowledge of forest and forestry than what I have – I tend to say every year too – but again: I admitted that we had cut off forest roads, so there Lundtigen got a clue. It is again related to what I said in my previous answer: the subsidisation in the 1970s of planting and construction of forest roads we believe was wrong by the government. Whether or not to do so can happen in other ways, but we think it is wrong that the state subsidizes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1194	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1197	Economic policy is about trust and security. When confidence weakens, security is affected. This is what happens in countries by country in Europe. When security is affected, often the least-paid ones have to pay the most. That is also the lesson of history. When economies come out of course, the workplaces are affected. There are now some 45 million unemployed in the OECD countries. Unemployment that lasts over time takes away from people what is people's most important capital, that is, the ability to work. Work is the source of own income and development and of Community income. Unemployment has high human and social costs. Long-term unemployment increases the risk of poverty and health problems. Conditions and opportunities of children, e.g. in school and otherwise, are affected by parental leave. Differences are increasing in both income and opportunities for well-paid and productive jobs. High time availability increases the risk of the emergence of extreme movements and batches. The pursuit of scapegoats, nationalistic expressions and actions are emerging in the wake of high and persistent unemployment. This weakens the emergence and confidence of key political and social institutions. That is why a lot is now at stake in European policies and in the European economy. Political leadership will be tested if leadership is unable to build trust and security. Both parts are important, so that one can address the most important tasks of the European economy: creating growth and new jobs, giving back hope and dreams for the future, especially among young people. It's easy to forget how important this is when it's going well. It is easy to forget this when the visible wealth is great. Norway is a rich country. Oil revenues give us a state-financial space for action most other countries do not have. What makes Norway rich is not primarily the oil and our other natural resources. What makes Norway rich is the work of many. That's the basis our ancestors and ancestors let, and we're going to pass on to those who come after us. It is our common work that has made us rich. It is the will for political governance and determined political work, not the money itself. We must never get there that we take for granted all that is going well – that the small, nourishing will always shade for the big, distant. We can never protect ourselves fully against what can happen from the outside. On the other hand, it is in our own hands to avoid harming ourselves. There is a reason why mistrust has stuck in many countries. There's a reason for the big imbalances we see in the economies. Over time, countries have used more than they have created. They've borrowed too much over many years. Finally, the bubble cracks. Money they were going to spend on growth, jobs and well-being is no longer there. It really hurts to see young people in Ireland talk in despair about being out of work and without any faith in the future. It hurts to see Spanish families being put on the street, because the money doesn't go to when rent and living quarters are to be paid. Similarly, it hurts when older people who have lost their jobs almost have to go to the poor box to ask for a meal. This is the true face of the crisis. The financial crisis is exacerbating the problems. It's a cross of thought for me and for many others that so much money had to be spent to repair the damage of a speculative financial economy. Therefore, I am also upset to read that wages and bonuses are back in large parts of the international financial industry as soon as possible, as if nothing had happened. That is why the crisis is also about justice, about distribution and not least about morality. What we have to do in good times is prepare ourselves for times that can get worse and turn around, that economies can get worse. Norway will be affected by the European crisis. That is why the framework we have set for our economic policy is important. That is why the rule of action is important. Therefore, financial accountability and keeping order in your own house are so important. Practices that aim at finding free money outside the budget are a dangerous path to turn on. First of all, there is no free money. Secondly, we just shift increased burdens on those who come after us. People in many countries now pay dearly for such exercises. It's a valuable lesson. Sound budgetary principles and an open and comprehensive budgetary process are necessary to keep the economy in order — even in the coming years. In that case, the objective to be financed by the State must be included in the State budget. Responsibility in budgetary policy is something we should be proud of, not something we should try to avoid. There is a strong competitiveness in the Norwegian economy. A long-term and predictable economic policy is a prerequisite. We have a well-run society. Community welfare gives people great social protection, we have skilled and competent labour. There are fewer differences among people in Norway than in other countries. These include: This makes Norway the world’s best country to live in, and one of the best countries to produce and create. That is why we need to take care of and develop the culture and attitudes that have produced the good results. The most important thing is cooperation and solidarity. At the beginning of the 1990s, we had high and increasing unemployment. We had far from as much money as we have today. We even had a government budget deficit after the oil revenues were calculated. Those who were at work held back on their pay demands, so that those who were unemployed could get a job. We got it done, while labour costs went down considerably in relation to our competitors. That's what we took advantage of throughout the 1990s and far into the present century. Now it's the opposite. Now we need a joint wage settlement to prevent job losses in the export industry, a joint wage settlement that must not only apply to those covered by the collective agreements. It must apply to all: those with free professions and those with management salaries – responsibility for competitiveness applies to all. Competitiveness and productivity are also more than just numerical quantities. It's just as much a social model that gives individuals and people together freedom and opportunities to create and achieve their goals. Therefore, children should have a safe upbringing. That's why we're going to have a common school where everyone gets the same possibilities. That's why we're going to have a work life that includes everyone who wants, even though the individual's assumptions may be different. That's why we're going to process and develop the workforce. Therefore, through joint work, we will continue to use and develop the enormous resources that this country has. To do that, we need to make some important choices. We've made some important choices. That's what we do when we choose well-being and community over tax havens. That's what we do when we both manage to save for the future and have a credible use of oil money today. Life is about the small and big choices we have to make every day. Politics is also about that. Our private and our common economy gives us the freedom to make such choices. Millions of people around the world and in many countries do not have the same freedom that we have to make such choices. Therefore, we must be humble in relation to this freedom of action. We've created a lot of the action space ourselves, but we've also been helped by others from around us. This is why the development of the Norwegian economy is also about the fate we share with other people and countries around us. It's important that we never forget it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1230	The budget presented by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Government shows high growth, high wage growth and low unemployment. On the other hand, the installation he holds to present the budget to be adopted is very gloomy. It doesn't seem like there's a lot of connection between the article and the budget we're going to adopt. The changes in the budget made by the Storting are 30 million. kr – in a budget of 1000 billion. kr. That's a change of 0.003 pst. In 2008, in the 2009 budget debate, then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen announced that the situation was worrying, that we had to expect a crisis package. She boasted that the use of oil money was 12 billion. kr – 14 br. kr over which a neutral budget would be required. Today's debate has given the opposite view: it is irresponsible to spend more oil money. My question is: will the Minister of Finance stress that it would be irresponsible to use more oil money for the entire financial year 2012, or can we expect this to change when the situation... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1241	Firstly, this is a good budget, but at the same time, as I also said in my financial speech, it is a budget that has been presented in troubled and special times too many around us. That means there's a budget that has taken account of that development, and there's a budget that will be at the bottom of the job we're going to do in the future. Then we have also said, and of course we are saying that if it goes from bad to worse in Europe, we are prepared to act. The main prerequisite for being prepared to act is that we have created ourselves economic freedom of action. The conduct of an economic policy that uses more oil money, violates the rule of action and aims to find money outside the state budget is a policy that is not sustainable either in 2012 or in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1248	Today, we are discussing a budget that is heavily dependent on oil revenues, and in the future, it is important that the management of the oil fund be optimised. According to the National Audit Act, Section 9, the National Audit Authority has the audit responsibility for all state funds, regardless of whether the funds have their own external auditors. The control of the funds by the National Audit Office goes further and includes, inter alia: the administration, management, control and follow-up of the funds by the Ministry of Ownership. These are the statutory tasks of the National Audit Office. The law has not been amended. There is also a cross-political consensus here on the Stortinget that there is a desire for greater transparency around the administration. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision is denied full transparency, including: to look at bonus payments — nor will the Norwegian people see it. I have here a report from the California pension fund, which specifies external administrators with names, administrative capital and fees. Why does the Minister of Finance not want to do what CalPERS did, and why does the Minister of Finance itself refuse the Riksaudien information on bonus payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1259	The pension fund, the state pension fund abroad, has been identified as the world's most open fund in its kind — it is important to bring it in at the beginning. With regard to the relationship with the Riksrevision: The primary task of the Riksrevision is to control the conduct of the State Council — to use that expression — namely the relationship between the Council of State and the one charged with implementing the daily management of the State pension fund. In addition, Stortinget has its own body, the representation of the Bank of Norway, which, on an independent basis, is also to control the activities of the Bank of Norway. This is a question that the Stortinget has discussed on several occasions, and the Stortinget itself, and the majority in Stortinget, have drawn up a very clear and, in my view, good division of labour between the Riksrevision and the representation of the Bank of Norway. It's a division of labour that I join.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1266	Let me just first point out that there is a lot in the Minister of Finance's analysis that also agrees with the Right's analysis of challenges in Europe and the possible consequences for Norway. But good analysis does not help those who lose their jobs, and I also doubt that the generations of the future will thank today's politicians for a good analysis if we fail to build Norway as a knowledge nation. What surprises me is that, in the light of the analysis of the impact on Norway of what is now happening in Europe, the Minister of Finance is so prone to the consequences that productivity growth has fallen after 2006 and that competitiveness has deteriorated every year under the red-green government. These are figures from the government's own budget. My simple question is: What is the government's strategy for increasing productivity and enhancing competitiveness in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1273	There may be several relationships that one here should address. Firstly, it is the case — yes, it is true — that productivity growth in Norway has fallen from 2006, in the same way that productivity growth has declined in other countries as it is natural to compare. It can be due to more relationships. Among other things, this can be due to the fact that both enterprises in Norway and enterprises abroad have retained more of the labour force over a period of recession. This may explain that productivity per employee has fallen. It is basically good if companies use such an opportunity to upgrade and train their workforce, so that we are better rusted when new times come. So it's actually also so that productivity in industry has increased since a little bit into 2010, and it's important to hold on to it. The last thing is that spring wages are important in terms of productivity development in the future, while financial policy must also build up under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1279	Under the bourgeois government, value creation increased by 25 pst per hour in industry. It provided a basis for raising wages, improving well-being or enhancing competitiveness. When the Minister of Finance now acknowledges that productivity growth has fallen and that it has also done so with our trading partners, it is nevertheless a problem that we have continued to increase wages more than our trading partners. For the next year, the government's forecast is that the salary increase in Norway will be at 4 p.m., and it will be in a situation where our trading partners – if they can enjoy any increase in wages at all – are most likely to fall in wages, at least in several countries. I am recording that the LO has now set up a moderate salary settlement. Will the Minister of Finance announce that the 4% in the budget is at the top – to put it mildly – if we are to strengthen the competitiveness of the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1286	It is an interesting exercise in politics to find out when one policy stops and a new one starts. I am quite sure that the reforms we carried out in the Norwegian economy in the 1990s benefited citizens well beyond the 2000s – we must be able to be both ways. Both the tax reform and the solidarity option played an important role in restoring the Norwegian economy in the 1990s after what happened in the 1980s – I will not characterize it with any expression. Then I fully agree that a solidarity wage settlement for 2012 is enormously important. I spent a lot of my time in the post describing what is necessary; that it should apply to everyone, not only to those covered by the collective agreements, but also to those who have free professions, management salaries, etc. The national budget estimates are an estimate based on the growth assumptions underlying the Norwegian economy. It's not the paycheck.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1293	The Minister of Finance said in his statement that next year the government’s budget for ‘has taken into account’ — I think I quote correctly — the situation that is now under development in Europe and the consequences it has for Norway. At the same time, only a few days have passed since the Minister of Finance actually said that the budget for some of the targets is not up-to-date with the development of Europe and the impact it has on Norway. So my question is, what changes does the government now see it as likely that one will have to make to be up-to-date in fiscal policy regarding the situation that is developing in the markets around us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1298	Yes, the budget was well adjusted and took into account the situation we saw on 6 October, when the state budget was presented, and it was then, as it is now, alarming times in Europe. What has happened since October 6th is that we have received new estimates for growth in the euro area in 2012, which have been reduced from 1.1 pst. to 0,5, and a reduction in the assumed growth of our trading partners from 2.2 pst. to 1.8. This will affect the growth of the Norwegian economy, and what I signaled two days ago was that we have to be able to assume that it happens. What is important in addition to that is that we follow closely, have a high level of preparedness and ability to act if the situation in Europe goes from bad to worse. What kind of measures, when they come, and what they may contain, will depend on the current situation. But I'm glad to hear in the reply today that there is also the will in Stortinget, and in the opposition, to be able to participate if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1305	I was the head of the finance committee when I asked earlier today about "green tax change", so I get to try on the finance minister. It has been a demanding harvest for us who are concerned with environmental and climate issues. The climate message is once again exposed. There is no progress in the CO2 cleaning on Mongstad and Kårstø. We have Statoil's oil sand project, and from several teams it is loudly called that the climate agreement is too expensive, and that we have to buy ourselves out. In the State budget, the Minister of Finance writes that the main instruments of government’s climate policy are taxes and negotiable quotas. But it's been granted far more for quota purchases than it's been used for green tax change in the last five years. So why is the government just willing to use this one tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1317	I have some experience with climate taxes and environmental taxes. In my last period as Minister of Finance, we introduced the CO2 tax, which I believe is one of the most important contributions to reducing climate emissions. Without the CO2 tax Norway as number two – I believe Finland was far ahead of Norway – climate emissions would have been much higher today. There is one concrete example of our willingness to use the charging system to reduce climate change emissions. The other thing we have done – and where the undersigned has followed up their predecessor – is to change the car charges. By changing the purchase fee on new cars, we have now achieved a very good development, where we are about to reach the target we have set at 120 g/km. There are two examples of how important it is to be able to use the charging system. Of course, this government is prepared to continue to use the charging system in the future in order to achieve a good and appropriate climate behaviour, thereby reducing climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1335	There are turbulent times around us. There is hardly a parliamentarian across Europe who would not have replaced us in this Chamber when we are now considering next year's budget. In several parts of the continent, the debt crisis has led to social unrest and political crisis. Millions of people are affected when young people enter adult life as unemployed and when wages, pensions and welfare systems are cut. It's in stark contrast to the starting point we have when we go into a new year in a few weeks. The proposal for a State budget shows that Norway is doing well. The availability is low, and we can continue to work on developing the welfare community and building the country. In the next year's budget, we will strengthen the appropriations for health care. It should help to ensure that even more patients receive good treatment and to continue working to reduce waiting times. We will continue the development of roads and railways and the transport promise that we have started on after many years of lag in investment and maintenance in the transport sector. The police are considerably strengthened, and the free revenues of the municipalities are increased. We're addressing the challenges of society, but we can't correct all the biases, nor do we meet all the aspirations of Norwegian society next year's state budget. The main priority is to pursue a policy of continued low unemployment for a time that we know will be demanding. When we compare ourselves with other countries, Norway has succeeded in combating the previous financial crisis. This is because the government's policy, with work for all, has worked. It is due to good cooperation between the social partners and with the social partners. This is because the packages of measures designed in close cooperation with the business community met exactly what they were supposed to do, and not least that we have competent companies with expertise, with high productivity and with adaptability. Productivity has been a topic of debate today. The productivity growth in mainland Norway between 2005 and 2010 has been 0.9 pst. The corresponding figure for our trading partners in the same period is 0.9 pst. We have to start from the Norwegian model, even in a situation where the debt crisis will affect us. It's not a menu where you can just pick out the individual items you want, at your own discretion. That's the context that's important. Having a level of taxation that enables us to finance welfare schemes and a social security network for all, with equality and a well-organised working life, has proved to be a winning recipe to create values, and it is also a winning recipe to ensure fair distribution and security of people's lives. Norway is among the countries of Europe with the smallest differences. In recent years, we have had a policy and a tax system that redistributes even better. The taxes on wealth have become more fair, and the zero-taxors are gone. The representative Sanner spent a lot of time on the government's policy in his post, so I also need to spend some time on his posts. He addressed an important topic: child poverty. We have to discuss that. But I'm afraid we disagree. Our answer is to secure work for the parents who have children so that they can support their families, it is to continue to have a tax system that benefits and that can finance well-being. In combating child poverty, it is important to have universal welfare schemes that make up the children – with children's playground at all prices, with free core time in those areas that have an additional need, and low-threshold cultural services that are available to all children. The answer is not to remove the property tax, where 60 pst. is paid by the richest percentage of the country, it is not to increase kindergarten prices, as the Right does in its alternative budget. Norway has been appointed by the World Bank as the world’s sixth best country for industrial activities. Nevertheless, we should be careful to believe that we will be unaffected by the great and dramatic events that are taking place in our own continent. We're part of the world, we're part of Europe, and we have to be prepared that there will be tougher times for us too. That's why this isn't the time for economic experiments, this is the time for shock control and the prescription we know works. Sanner has twice pointed out that good analysis does not help those who lose their jobs. That is, of course, true, but good analysis is very important in finding the right measures, so that as much as possible the job remains. When I go to the doctor, I appreciate that he takes time to diagnose me correctly or the patients he or she treats. It would be very unfortunate if the doctor used the same medicine to treat influenza and heart attacks. But that's exactly what the Right is doing in the world of politics. Tax is always the answer, no matter what the question is, and whether the times are good or bad. When the financial crisis hit, the Right said that the measures that came from the government were too small and that they were too late. They wanted tax cuts. It turned out to be wrong. Despite the disappearance of jobs at the turn of the century, it turned out that the measures were being taken correctly. 250,000 new jobs have been created since the red-green government took over. Two thirds of these jobs have come into the private sector. The distribution between the public and private sectors is 30 pst. in the public sector and 70 pst. in the private sector, and that is exactly the same distribution as in 2005. There can be no bad result. In addition to paying close attention to developments in Europe in terms of government debt and labour market developments, we should take an interest in the policy solutions that the countries of our continent are now beginning to face. On the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, tax cuts are still being produced as the saluting political grip. This is the overwhelming effort of both the Right and the Advance Party in their alternative budgets. It is in stark contrast to the experience that has been gained in Europe, where there is now a growing recognition that welfare needs to be actually financed. Earlier in today's debate, it has been said that European countries have spent too much money. Yeah, that's probably right for many countries. It has also been too bad management in many places, and one has among other things. spent a lot of money outside the state budget. But there is also a point that many countries have not taken responsibility for financing expenditure and for raising incomes to operate countries and communities. What's happening now, we can almost call a kind of policy reversal. The time when the market was supposed to solve everything is definitely over. Experience in Europe clearly shows that tax cuts are yesterday's policy. It has not given the growth and jobs it was expected to provide, and it has weakened welfare systems and social arrangements. The Community is always good to have, but it is particularly important in bad times. Many Europeans now feel that they have no community to move on because it was removed in good times. We do not know how the economic crisis will affect Norway, but we have to expect to be affected. Then it's our job to make sure that we have a policy of solidarity for those people who are at risk of becoming unemployed, and that those who are affected have a strong community to lean on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1368	Here it was very strange to get caught up in, for example. it is good to remember that employment growth started in 2003, not in 2005. Otherwise, tax cuts are not the answer to all the questions. If the Progress Party wants more roads, we will allow more. We don't cut the taxes. When he spoke about the state budget, the Minister of Finance said that things the state is funding must enter the state budget. Within the oil industry, Petoro invests 20 billion. kr on behalf of the State this year. Within power, Statkraft has received 14 billion. kr to invest in wind turbines and hydropower plants. Does this mean that the government wants Statkraft's and Petoro's investments to be brought into the state budget instead of having them operate as independent companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1375	The companies and businesses represented by Solvik-Olsen here are, of course, companies that are profitable, withdrawing revenue from the State budget. The Progress Party operates in its alternative budget is to move expenditure items from the State budget and to companies without indicating that they are profitable and are able to withdraw revenue into the Community. It's irresponsible. The representative of Solvik-Olsen has himself mentioned his own alternative budget as being extreme in relation to the budgets of the other political parties in Norway. That is an assessment that I agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1381	I think it is shameful that a parliamentary leader is quoting so badly. What I said was that it's extreme, relative to that of the others. But it's still like we cut 1.5 pst. of the expenditure of the State. 1.5 pst. is not an extremely high number – that's what they say. State power generates revenues, but has still received 14 million. kr from the State without going through the rule of action, but it goes like so-called under-stretch money. So the argument is still very clear: the government chooses to give money to some companies, who then use them in the Norwegian economy, and there are oil money going into power generation. So Petoro's going to be allowed to invest $20 billion. kr is on the Norwegian pedestal every year, and would like more even if they want to, without the government having to be asked about it, as long as it is decided in Stortinget that the projects are allowed to be expanded. But one never thinks about the rule of action in such situations. So I ask again, what's the point of one here trying to say that oil and windmills are not a problem when it comes to using oil money, while adding asphalt is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1390	The government is giving up, and the Labour Party in Stortinget supports, the way to budget what you do, and with which you have good experience in Norwegian economic policy. In the situation we're now facing, it's not the time to figure out new creative ways to carry out the costs. The experience gained from Europe is poor in this way. We are going to have a responsible budget with the important and proper efforts. It's about well-being, building the country and focusing on ensuring low unemployment – not tax cuts and experiments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1397	There is a reason why the Right is concerned with security through knowledge and competitiveness, and that is a reason why we have been concerned with productivity development. Not because it's so very festive to talk about statistics, but because all the analysis of the Norwegian economy over the years has been about the reason we've done well, is that we've managed to have a higher productivity growth than other countries, and thus we've been able to bear higher wage costs and a higher welfare level. When we then find that we may be at a level with or, as some of our statistics show, below the average in OECD countries in terms of productivity growth, it is a danger signal in terms of what is at the heart of how we finance our welfare state in the future. Then my simple question to the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party is: How long does the Labour Party think we can continue to run with high wage growth and low productivity growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1406	I do not agree with the description by Solberg of productivity in Norwegian business. It is quite right that it has recently been somewhat worse than with our trading partners. The reason for this is that Norwegian businesses have kept their workers at a time of financial crisis, while out in Europe they have become unemployed. The right is trying to give the impression that productivity growth in Norway has been poorly compared with our trading partners in the time that the red-green government has ruled. It's completely wrong. The productivity growth in Norwegian industry has been exactly the same as the productivity growth of our trading partners. It shows figures from the OECD and from the Central Statistical Office. So Erna Solberg's analysis is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1413	My analysis is exactly the same as that in the national budget. If what I say is wrong, in that case, the Minister of Finance has not correctly informed the Stortinget. The productivity growth under the previous government was 25 pst. The growth in productivity between 2005 and 2009 was not increasing, but it was not only due to the financial crisis. Indeed, productivity growth was poor both in 2007 and 2008 in the Norwegian economy. It is not so important – the important thing about this is that this is the framework condition for how to finance our welfare society in the future. My question is again, how long can we continue with this? And why does the Workers' Party seem so unconcerned that the basis for financing welfare in the future will be more and more use of oil money and less and less competitiveness in mainland Norway's economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1420	We spend as much oil money as we do on the right. I think even the Right uses something more oil money than the government does in its budget. The productivity growth in Norway has been similar to the productivity growth of our trading partners during the period of the red-green government. The best goal of competitiveness is how Norwegian business is going, how unemployment figures are going. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We have a high level of employment. We're doing very well compared to all countries it's natural to compare ourselves with. Our answer is to conduct a responsible economic policy and have a tax level that defends safe welfare arrangements for all. It also includes a bet on knowledge, which Erna Solberg took up in his first line here. There's peace at school. The results of the Norwegian school are moving forward, cf. The PISA study, and we have also strengthened the research by 27 pst. since the end of the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1429	A woman who has been in work six out of ten months before birth is entitled to a parental leave with a salary of up to NOK 6 G – 480 000. A woman who is a student, or for other reasons has not been in the labour market in the last months before birth, has the right to a one-off grant and to be paid NOK 35000. The Christian People's Party has in recent years proposed an increase in one-off aid in each alternative budget, and in this budget an increase of DKK 80000. It is unfair in a life-cycle perspective that a woman who gives birth at one point in her life receives so much less support than a woman who gives birth at another point in her life. Although, overall, they contribute as much to the community and participate in the labour market for as many years, the woman who gives birth at a ‘real’ time will receive up to 13 times as much support as a woman who gives birth at a ‘wrong’ time. Does the Workers' Party agree that the system is unfair and that it is out of date in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1436	I believe that the government has done a lot of hard work in recent years to make it safe to feed in Norway, so that those who give birth and take care of children have good social arrangements. It is important to extend the maternity leave and not least to extend the arrangements we have for children, and also to improve the arrangements for self-employed persons. I am very concerned that, in the further work, we should also have good arrangements for those who give birth, because it is important for Norway and for Norway's future that you can combine having children and having a family life with working life. It ensures both employment and well-being, as well as that it is a good thing to be able to be with children. And then we're going to get back to more detail eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1441	The representative Pedersen thought that there were people who thought that tax relief helped everything. We in the Left believe that knowledge helps almost absolutely everything. Focusing on knowledge, research and investing in our school with the right grips, which are more good teachers and less bureaucracy, is important. I have seen that the representative Pedersen has traveled around the country talking about school. When she, as the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, talks about the important arrests for the country, she does not mention that. She even forced a bunch of teachers to sit at the Teachers' Association for half a day to make recordings, which, as Pedersen said, was an extremely useful round. Has not anything been taken into account in the policy-making of how important school and knowledge really are, when you close down the Research Fund, when you cut down the gift-enhancing scheme, when you actually go to school through bananas and unskilled homeworkers, and when we see that we have a nominal decline in research relative to GDP?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1448	I thank you for the question and for the opportunity to talk about knowledge. I did the same in a debate here in the Chamber last week. My meeting with the teachers from East Toten, to which the representative Skei Grande refers, was very useful, and not least the teachers showed great pleasure in getting jobs in the Norwegian school. I think it's important that we talk the Norwegian school up, not down. I am very happy that there is peace in the Norwegian school, and that the results are going in the right direction. I am very happy that there are now more teachers in school, better teachers, and that more will be teachers. It's important for the future of the school. I fully agree that we have started the hunt for the 20th of time. We're going to keep going, so that teachers can spend their time on the most important problems. We also need to focus on early efforts, start early, and we have invested in research: 27 pst. more than when the Bondevik II government sat in the offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1461	The financial crisis in Europe is also a challenge for Norway. The Labour Party responds by presenting this as that social democracy is about the same as safe governance, in fact the only option in terms of safe governance. Both Greece’s and Spain’s recent Social Democratic Governments are well evidence that this is not entirely the case. I am too safe and responsible. That's why the Progress Party is good at managing our resources. Tax relief is sensible, because it is an instrument to increase labour force, to create an even more solid business that can create even more jobs. Investing in infrastructure is sensible, because it contributes to more profitability, faster accessibility, and it secures life in traffic. Removing health cows makes sense, because it's good for the individual, and it's good for the Norwegian economy and for society as a whole. Making public sector more efficient also makes sense. It makes sense especially now that the long-term consequences of what we see in Europe will mean a weakening of the competitiveness of Norway and our European trading partners over time. Wanting more people into the world of work makes sense. There is no experiment to want those on the outside of the labour market to be allowed to join. Here the Workers' Party responds by saying that the labour market should apply primarily to those who are already there. The Progress Party disagrees. Wanting more policemen in the streets is also reasonable, because it leads to more security, and it leads to less crime. It's good for Norwegian society, it's not bad. It is therefore with pride that the Progress Party has put forward its alternative state budget. I just wish the Workers' Party had shown a little greater willingness to consider proposals that come from other parties in this Chamber, rather than believing that only their own proposals contribute to improving the Norwegian economy. Yesterday there was an unfortunate statement in Stortinget. It is an opinion that has been lamented by the Progress Party, both in writing and orally. The starting point for yesterday's Question Time was claims by workers' party representatives that there is a link between 22 July, Norwegian asylum and immigration policy and the Progress Party. It's a connection that I'm taking away from. It is a coupling that the Party of Advancement cannot stand in disrepute. I now look at the newspaper.no that the head of the AUF, Eskil Pedersen, is once again out there and reinforces this connection. He makes claims that if there is a breach of opinions in the Norwegian community, it is the fault of the Progress Party. He claims that it is we, the Progress Party, who must take responsibility for Breivik's views. It is Breivik – and only Breivik – who has to take responsibility both for their attitudes and for their actions. But there is something wonderful about this whole debate, because the allegations are that the opposition Party is responsible for the consequences of Norwegian asylum and immigration policy, while the government parties, which have led asylum and immigration policy, are not responsible. That debate does not take part in the Presidencies. It must be possible for many people in this society to have warm and genuine sympathy in the wake of the events on 22 July – for we all have – and, at the same time, to express criticism of Norwegian asylum and immigration policies. There are very many people who believe, and all these people must be allowed to believe without being told that they should feel guilty for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1478	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1481	The Labour Party has never held the Progress Party responsible for the actions on July 22nd – on the contrary, representatives of our party have clearly stressed all the time that there is one man responsible for what happened that day, and that is the perpetrator. That is also what Eskil Pedersen said on the newspaper web today. He underlines: ‘I have said in all interviews and debates that there is nothing other than the perpetrator who is responsible for what happened on 22 July.’ And I repeat this now: we do not hold the Progress Party co-responsible. Then I will at the same time sign out Siv Jensen's regret. I accept that on behalf of the Workers' Party Group. We have to endure discussions on all themes. I will now challenge the Progress Party on their distribution policy: how can Siv Jensen defend [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1495	The President asks the representative to stay within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1498	The Party's tax regime is primarily about providing tax relief to those with low and medium incomes. It is about more families in this country being able to manage themselves, live on their own income – with the pride it actually implies. In addition, our tax system is about strengthening business opportunities to make new investments so that we can create more jobs. Our alternative budget is a budget for growth, and that is what we need now, when growth forecasts in Norway decline, is growth-creating measures, not growth-reduction measures. Then I am glad that Helga Pedersen is so clear that the Progress Party should not be made co-responsible, but what she does not take away from, which I had hoped she would do, was Eskil Pedersen's rather harsh assertions about everything else he obviously believes the Progress Party must take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1505	There is a lot in the budget of the Progress Party I could ask for, but in the light of the article by the representative Jensen, I would like to address something else. Author Jon Risdal has written a book called Sorry! There he describes according to the weekly management five phases in an apology: ‘The agreement on the course of events, the one who apologizes for accepting blame by taking responsibility for his own actions, states, the one who has done something wrong makes up for himself in a harsh way and promises that it will never happen again.’ I ask myself the question of what we heard now, in fact, was an excuse. But I want to give the representative Jensen the opportunity to confirm that she is doing it in a harsh way, with a remorse and promise that it will not happen again. There are also representatives in the Progress Party who have raised the question of whether the Progress Party has gone too far, for example. Kristian Dahlberg Hauge, the top of the Progress Party in Trondheim, who says: “But I don’t want to hide that I’m critical of some of our having eaten the message too much, and being too extreme.” He's named Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Per-Willy Amundsen. Is Siv Jensen in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1524	The Progress Party has been critical of what we have thought to be a naive asylum and immigration policy for many decades. We're still going to be. It is still the case that the Progress Party is in opposition, SV is in government. It is remarkable how it can be that when the current government takes up the debate on a ban on burka, it is a decent debate. But when the Progress Party takes up exactly the same debate, it is irreproachable. If the Progress Party is talking about Islamization, then it is irreproachable. When Martin Kolberg talks about the exact same thing, it's quite decent. Or when the Progress Party talks about criminal asylum seekers, we go over the line. But when the Workers' Party puts forward measures to try to help do something about it, it is quite decent. It tells me that the government parties will not take on the fact that we have some unresolved problems, and they blame those who are not responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1531	I want to make a reply to the first part of the post – then the complaint stands for itself. The representative Jensen talked a lot about safety and accountability and had a focus on jobs in his post – quite naturally in the situation we are now in. But when you read the budget to the Progress Party, I think those who are gambling with jobs. One of Norway's largest industries is the food industry. It provides 100,000 jobs if you add up to the food industry and agriculture. It has a turnover of 120 billion. kr – a significant and heavy industry for the country, and in certain areas crucial. Then the Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to cut $6.3 billion. kr from 1 January. How can the representative defend it when you focus on jobs, and when you see that such a cut would undermine an entire industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1542	The progress party is for Norwegian food production, but we are also for profitable jobs. That is why we believe that there will be an advantage to the Norwegian economy and to Norwegian agriculture, with a shift that leads to the absence of subsidies, and you need to be more creative to adapt to Norwegian consumers. In addition, there is something very hollow about this argument. Because when we are discussing poverty in the world and aid in this Chamber, we must put our hands on the chest and explain why we are providing passive assistance bilaterally to many of the poorest countries in the world. But to let them into commerce, let Norwegian consumers buy their products, their groceries, we say no. That hollowness, that duality, is the party of progress disagreed with. We believe that the best way for the poor in the world too is to let them into the trading company in the world, not keep them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1549	I guess I feel that the Progress Party is just as bad at regret as they are at aid policy. But I want to continue with the aid policy. At the first meeting I attended in KrFU in politics, the leader of the KrFU told me that there were almost 40,000 children under the age of five who died every day. It made a big impression on the little boy who was at the meeting. But on the last day that I ended up as a KrFU leader last year, I could tell the KrFU that there are 25 000 children who die every day before they turn five years old – a fantastic development, much thanks to Norway having gone to the head to provide health care, to provide education, to invest in business. Then we can agree that we need to invest more in trade, but the aid is fundamental. Earlier this year the class struggle had a notice that seven out of ten progress party voters are positive for assistance. I think that's great. But why is the Advancement Party acting with its own voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1558	That is precisely why the Progress Party also provides assistance in its alternative budget. This is precisely why the Progress Party has supported a number of targeted actions, such as vaccination programmes, food programmes, etc., because it helps because targeted actions are emerging. Our criticism has been directed at that part of aid policy that is not transparent, which we cannot go after, which unfortunately seems to be in the pockets of dictators instead of benefiting the poor people. That's where the Christian People's Party should join forces with the Advancement Party, to find out that what doesn't work, we stop doing, and then we concentrate on doing what works. Then it's about creating jobs in poor countries, because a poor African is as busy to feed his family as any European. It's a pride that all people feel. Then we must facilitate growth, value creation and jobs in these countries and not keep them out of the good company.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1564	After the round that has been here, I just need to say two sentences: I don't think it's because of the Progress Party something that happened that day, but neither is it because of Norwegian immigration policy anything that happened that day – just so it's said. I want to ask a question that I have asked every year to Siv Jensen. I thought the Progress Party liked yes and no questions. I thought the Progress Party was the party that thought it was cool to have politicians who gave yes- and no-answers, but I never get a yes- or no-answer to my simple question: Is there man-made climate change? That's why I'm going to do it in a little bit, after Twitter tips: Is it that the representative Jensen thinks it's important to cut CO2 emissions, or should we not cut CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1577	The representative of Skei Grande knows very well that the Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals in the Stortinget that contribute both to the reduction of CO2 emissions and to the improvement of the environment. We are for that. Then maybe I think it would have been better if the Left Leader had addressed his questions about climate policy to the sitting government. It is basically those who are responsible for both the measures and the instruments. It's the ones that have been the highest on the track in creating an image of how serious the situation is, but at the top of it all hasn't been able to do anything about it. If you think that this is the most important task facing the world community, I think it is alarming how little government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1587	As one of the younger – still – in the Chamber from the Workers' Party it would have been tempting to comment on part two of the party leader Siv Jensen's contributions, but I will leave that to me. I would rather focus on what Siv Jensen and her new arms sponsor in the Finance Committee, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, have presented as their alternative budget. I assume that when the leader of the largest opposition party in Stortinget presents an alternative budget, it is believed that if a parliamentary situation should arise, it should be possible to govern the country after that, and that it is feasible. I have just a few questions: how does party leader Siv Jensen see that there is going to be a big cut in the public sector, which is in practice mass redundancies, most likely illegal redundancies, of many hundreds of employees in the state sector? How does she imagine she's going to sell state property for $4 billion? The night? And how does she imagine she's going to get her ends to go together after all, putting some of the money on the outside of the budget without getting her own special interest rate and exchange rate developments in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1596	The head of the financial committee knows very well that there is very little happening «overnight». The Progress Party's alternative budget is a budget for the whole of 2012. If Norway with properties worth hundreds or thousands of billions of dollars is not going to be able to sell properties for $4 billion. kr, we have a challenge. Nor is it the case that the Progress Party intends to break the Working Environment Act with some of what we do. When we want to streamline and convert the public sector, it's because it's become too big, it's become too heavy, it's become too bureaucratic, it's become a barrier to many people and not a tool. The public sector should be a tool for the citizens of Norway, not an obstacle. If the Workers' Party does not agree with that, it is an honest thing, but the Advance Party will have a public sector that helps its citizens, not stand in their way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1603	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1606	Many people in this debate have pointed to the great turmoil and the great social challenges that we see around us, in Europe and in other countries of the world, as a consequence of the international economic crisis. What many young people experience is that they cannot do what generations have done before they did after World War II: inherit a world that is a little better than the world their own parents got, because it has been political misappropriation, because money has not been spent, because a good and responsible long-term economic policy has not been provided in many of these countries, and, in some places, because there is a significant change due to changes in competition from, for example, many of the countries in Asia that have joined the world economy in the last 20 years. This assembly is in a very fortunate situation, but also in a very responsible situation. In Norway today, we have an economic situation that is the best we have ever had in Norway. We have the best welfare we've ever had, we have a high level of employment, we have a good starting point. We also have a great responsibility, because the responsibility that rests on us, which absorbs a non-renewable resource that is involved in financing our welfare society today, is to ensure that the things we do today are long-term and contribute to the generation that comes after us inheriting a world that is better than the one we received. That is why, in this debate and in the context of the budget, the Right has been concerned not only with talking about the transfiguration of the Norwegian economy, but also about the challenges of the basic parts of the Norwegian economy. Because we know that one thing is clear: if we are to create security for the welfare of Norwegian society in the years to come, it is either to be part of race to the bottom, i.e. cut, change, lower salary levels, or to say what the Right has said, that we are to create security by investing in knowledge and competitiveness. But the first thing to do is to admit that we have a long-term competitiveness challenge. So the government won't. I think it has been tangible, particularly from the parliamentary representatives of the Workers' Party, the lack of willingness to see that the challenges of the basic economy are there – the development of productivity, our fall in the international ranking in terms of innovation, innovation and even competitiveness. Yes, in fact, it turns out here that we are not on the way to creating security through knowledge and competitiveness. On the contrary, we are helping to increase the likelihood that this generation will not deliver a better society to the next generation. We need to work systematically now on the things that help us get more competitive in the long term. That's what we've been trying to do in the distortions we're doing in the state budget. Then we have to address the areas where we have a peculiar cost level, peculiar tax costs. The property tax is such a tax expense that is peculiar, a tax expense for Norwegian companies, which makes Norwegian ownership, private, close and present ownership, which I believe is part of the Norwegian model of having such good decisions in our working life, weaken – through the scheme of government has led years after year. We have to have a different focus on education. Our professional professions need a promise, because our greatest responsibility is perhaps to provide skilled labour to the labour market, to ensure that we have enough engineers, enough skilled workers and sufficient skills in the years to come. Therefore, the main answer of the Right is not tax relief. Our main answer is knowledge, but then we have to do things systematically to get it done. The government doesn't. That's why we have to continue the work that keeps the work line in check. We need to look at the areas where people fall out of work, what contributes to poverty problems. That is why we are proposing changes to the transitional benefit now, so that more children will experience that their mothers actually get into work, manage themselves and not pass on to transitional benefits. That is why we are concerned that well-being should work. It is fully possible to get a health care system that provides better treatment, not only for the survival of the blue light, but also for a viable life afterwards. That's why we're going to spend more on rehabilitation, more on breast reconstruction after cancer, more on the things that make life feel good too. There will then be more participation in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1626	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1629	The contribution to Erna Solberg could give the impression that it is the well-being that is the big investment in the alternative budget of the Right. It's not, it's tax cuts that's the biggest bet on the Right, in the order of 10 billion. kr. What we're looking at in Europe now is a number of underfunded states, and we see that when the crisis is a fact, there are huge gaps in the social security network. In many places it is non-existent. Well-being is being built up, and countries have minimal opportunities to invest in knowledge and research, as we do in Norway. There are many politicians now who regret not getting better at good times and cutting taxes when things went well. Now many people have to cancel tax promises, or even increase taxes, at a time when the crisis is a fact, and people go out into the streets and demonstrate against having to take their share of the bill. My question is: what has Solberg's representative learned from what is happening in Europe now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1638	I've learned that it's very wise to have a good tax system. It's very wise to have a tax system that makes people pay their taxes. Many of the countries in question, which have the biggest crises now, have a tax system where nominal rates are high, where the tax in theory is going to give a lot of revenue, but where the black economy has actually taken over because they have not had a system. We're not in that situation. But I have learned something from working with taxes on the Stortinget, from sitting on the Finance Committee and having had over 20 years here. I have learned something from the tax reform in 1992, when the Right and Workers' Party agreed to lower the tax to help stimulate the Norwegian economy more. We created a tax reform that lowered the level of taxation in Norway and helped to stimulate the Norwegian economy. When we sat in the Bondevik II government, we lowered the tax. We contributed to stimulating the Norwegian economy. Yes, we stimulated it so well that the Workers' Party has made the 2004 tax level a sacred one — a level of tax that they were actually opposed to in the first place, which contained tax reliefs that the other government had imposed, which was 20 billion. kr lower than in 2001. I learn a lot. The question is, does the Workers' Party learn a lot?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1647	I believe that the obvious lesson of what is happening in Europe is that well-being and countries need to be funded. Therefore, you should not cut the tax base in good times, because you need the income when the bad times come and people need a community to borrow. Nor has it had any effect on the creation of growth and new jobs, much less on the development of well-being. My follow-up question is about moderate wage settlement, which Solberg's representative has also been involved in. If we're going to succeed, we're going to need good tripartite cooperation. My question is: What is the signal to all the trade union organizations that Right believes it is when Right will give tens of thousands of dollars in tax dollars to those who sit with the largest assets in this country, while they will halve the trade union deduction? Does Solberg think that this is a good contribution to putting in place moderate wage settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1655	There were a lot of questions. Let me start with the question of tax relief. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen pointed out in his speech the previous 1992 reform, with tax reliefs, as important for increasing productivity and improving the economy. The working party is for tax relief when they're for them, then they work, but when they're not for them, they don't think they're working. These are just words. It has nothing to do with economics. The truth is that using more tax relief targeted at the areas we have today will contribute to a better functioning economy in Norway. More people with low income will get a lower threshold to go to work. To give tax relief on the property tax, I think I've gone well, because I've heard Roar Flåthen say that now we have to do something about the property tax. There is a concern about jobs and property taxes. If we had done something about the property tax, I would have done well to make sure that there was a good compromise also with the trade movement, because the trade movement has begun to realize that the property tax is a burden on Norwegian-owned jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1664	I have noticed that Solberg's representative always let it be mentioned that Flåthen says at the same time that he wants to take it back to the property tax, something right, as far as I have checked, has not gone into it. I want to read from a speech that Erna Solberg held at the Zero Conference this week earlier. I quote from the print: «We stand firm, and I want to underline that, on the climate agreement. We believe that it is important to get to the measures.’ And on the other hand, ‘An important part of what we are going to do in the future is to determine, among other things, which sectors are to carry the most. Initially, we believe that the sectors in the quota system should continue to be mainly managed through the quota system. But it gives us a significantly greater challenge to take more of the measures in the nonquota parts of the Norwegian economy. It concerns, inter alia, the transport sector.» The ‘significantly larger’ challenge is formidable. My question is: what measures are far more extensive, does Right go into its budget or into its further plans to meet the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1683	As far as the climate agreement is concerned, we are now waiting for the follow-up. Four-and-a-half years after the Prime Minister said at the national meeting of the Workers' Party that now is the time for words, now there is a need for action, we have not yet received the follow-up through the announcement that the government is going to make. When our starting point is that this is essentially – and I remind you that I said essentially, I didn't say everything – is going to happen within the bounds of allowances, it's because, and it didn't include Solhjell from the record, it's not a purpose for us just to move the emissions, the purpose is for emissions to go down. If the result is that we are laying down jobs in Norway and moving emissions elsewhere, the environment has not won anything, and then we have to try to take it in other areas. The most important thing we do is what we have proposed before, a large climate technology fund. Climate technology must be a completely different field of activity in the years to come. It provides both business and the opportunity to address several of the challenges. Then we're going to get back to all the details when the government has laid a decision base on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1692	I have asked Solberg's representative about this before, and she always answers, as a general answer, that Right is waiting. While the government is implementing comprehensive climate action in Norway and internationally, the Right's policy is clearly waiting for the climate message. Just to give an insight into the seriousness and the difficulty of doing this: sectors that are quota-coated in Norway, that is, the petroleum sector, a lot of industry and aviation, account for more than half of our climate emissions. More than half of the sector cut was estimated by the majority, among others. Right and SV, during the treatment of the 2007 Climate Change Report. So if we're not going to use any particular tool over half of the emissions, the challenge on the rest is formidable if the Right is behind the climate deal. So I repeat: is it possible to get an answer – in addition to right waiting – on what concrete actions Right sees itself, since SV and the other party have presented a number of measures we believe are important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1697	The right has put forward proposals in the Storting on many things. Among other things, we proposed, together with the other two opposition parties that were involved in the climate agreement, that we should take out the previously low-hanging fruits, as we call it – that is, what is socio-economically profitable – and start doing something before the climate change plan itself came, because we could make changes and changes faster. Then we've been for green certificates all along, not like the government, who first removed them and then brought them back. We would have had a completely different situation for green certificates today if we had adopted them in 2006/2007, as planned, instead of having a five-year break because the government did not accept the solution that was there – and five years later almost the same solution accepts. In addition, we have, among other things: proposed better arrangements to phase out oil boilers in Norway. So we have a bunch of suggestions. We also have a proposal that has been discussed in Stortinget, on changes in building regulations, in the certification schemes for construction, to ensure that the public only builds so-called A and B buildings in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1706	Does the representative of Solberg consider that agreements concluded between the State and an industry should be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1711	I believe that agreements between the state and industries should be kept, but I also believe that the agricultural agreement today can no longer be seen as an agreement that can bind the Stortinge forever and ever. We have to have – and we want – another way of dealing with it. We want primarily the agricultural agreement to be treated in parallel with the State budget, because there are such large transfers of the state budget to a single industry that it must also be possible for the parties to the Stortinget to have a responsibility and an opportunity to influence the composition of the subsidies granted to the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1716	It was interesting to note that Solberg’s representative believes that agreements should be held and that the representative himself raises one industry where they should not be kept — agriculture. It surprises me that what tends to be a responsible and decent party goes away from a negotiated agreement and wants to cut a further 1.7 billion. kr – with effect from 1 January. One sees that they want to cut in their 2012 budget and in other settings here at Stortinget. It is going to hit a significant and heavy industry with approx. 100000 persons employed and a turnover of 120 billion kr. Is it wise at a time of so much anxiety to change the rules for such a large and heavy diet overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1721	Yes, I think it is right today with measures that allow the agricultural industry to use its resources better. That is why we have a number of proposals on simplification in the agricultural sector. We have a number of proposals to strengthen ownership in order to be able to use the land, including: through the measures we have relating to the Planning and Building Act and other changes. In addition, there is only one industry which has the type of agreement that the agricultural industry has — agriculture and reindeer farming has that type of agreement — where large parts of the income base are to be financed from the State budget. But it's done outside the treatment of the state budget, and so it's negotiated over a lot of transfers. I don't think it's sustainable in the long run that we're going to uncouple it from the other types of priorities, but look at it. I mean, with the changes we're making, it's viable. There will be a greater degree of freedom with the Higher Agricultural Policy. It will mean that more farmers will be able to live from their incomes in the future. So I believe that the agricultural system as it is today needs a certain revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1728	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1731	Citation: ‘‘Nastrovie! To the land of rich socialism. To Norway!' he cried out. With varying enthusiasm, we lift the members of the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Committee our glasses and bowls. It is one of the Communist Party's members of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian National Assembly, the Duma, who has spoken. We're about to end a lunch where it doesn't lack good food or drink. He points out that Norway has most of the Communist Party in Russia trying to get there in that country, and that it's almost not possible to see our country missing. ‘In Norway almost all the politicians come from the socialist side’, he says freely and frames up from the Russian translation of our party names: ‘The Socialist Party, the Labour Party and the Progressive Party...’ It was the author himself who read. Many countries now envy Norway. We've been a little lucky and very good. Over generations, we have developed small differences, high levels of participation in the labour market, high productivity, a strong welfare state and a well-managed public economy. We have managed our most important wealth – human – well. In recent years, we have faced economic problems with an active policy that ensures value creation and well-being, and with rapid and accurate response to the financial crisis. At the same time, our generation of politicians have an enormous responsibility: what do we do in the next generation to renew ourselves, meet the challenges of the future, become an even better country? For what is good enough today will not be good enough tomorrow. EN and the government to build up well-being, renew it, make sure that it is funded. We choose to develop all parts of the knowledge society – kindergarten, elementary school, increased opportunities for research, higher education, further education in the labour market, innovation in industry and in the public sector – and we choose to lay the foundation for solving our generation's greatest challenge; the climate problem and the reduction of natural disasters. In view of the serious situation in Europe, the budgets of the Right and the Progress Party are heading in the wrong direction. They are still carrying out large tax cuts to the realms where other countries focus on financing the well-being they want. The progress batch shall use 21 billion. kr to reduce taxes and taxes, while the Right shall spend 8.5 billion. kr. Over time, such policies will contribute to a permanent weakening of the country’s income and the ability to finance well-being. Differences between the poor and the rich should rise again. Some of the most important things that have happened in recent years in Norway are that differences have decreased. Over a decade, differences in most Western countries have increased. It's part of what's built up trust and undermine public health, and it's not healthy for the economy and the potential for change in an economy that there's a big difference between rich and poor. Over time, the policy of the Right and the Progress Party will again speed up differences in Norway. Climate policy is absent from the Progress Party budget, and the Right is currently fragmented and confused when it comes to how to implement a climate policy. They once stood firm on the climate agreement and were clear on it, together with the government. No party will put Norway above rule next year, but the direction of politics is different. It is the direction of policy over time – in the policy of distribution, in the policy of innovation and knowledge, in welfare policy and in environmental policy – that determines how the next generation will feel in Norway. The government budget is a budget for solidarity, for the environment, to invest in the work and knowledge of the years to come, while the main profile of the Right and Advance Party option points in the wrong direction – against increasing differences in Norway and tax cuts for the richest. It is a policy that we do not need in a troubled situation in Europe and that will take Norway in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1767	The speech here reminds me a little bit of propaganda data we heard from the Soviet Union, especially since the representative started in Russian. Those were nice words, but have really little relevance to reality. Tax policy for the Progress Party leads to a 21-billion-dollar cut. kr in a budget of 300 billion. kr in higher tax revenue in year than in 2005. So it's not dramatic. Our alternative budget has a surplus of 344,8 billion. kr. It's not with and tearing down welfare in the future. The representative Solhjell was very concerned with climate action in the line change with the Right. The oil industry is our most important industry and has contributed to a great deal of the wealth and stimulation of the economy that we now experience. At the same time, we see that the oil report presented by the government suggests that CO2 emissions increase by 23 pst. compared to the 2007 projections. Is SV behind this oil message?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1779	SV is behind the documents provided by the government for Stortinget. That's why it's very important, among other things. Due to increased CO2 emissions in many countries, we present an offensive climate communication and seek support for it. Tax cuts to the Progress Party will over time be very large amounts that we do not want to finance well-being. So I also know, because I've seen it in the budget of the Progress Party, that they're trying to hide it with different handles. But it's a grip that just doesn't really work. With $600 billion. DKR set aside in different funds will only be charged to the budget by approx. in 2013. 24 B.C.E. kr, which one has hidden in the 2012 budget. One should increase the exchange, have the sale of property for 4 billion. kr, a calculation of dynamic tax effects that no one but the Progress Party believes. That kind of funding actually doesn't work in reality. A country with such a budget cannot be controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1789	If the representative Solhjell had read a capitalist paper and the Financial Newspaper, he would see that the SSB says that 25 pst. The dynamic effect is not unrealistic in any way, so I'm putting the matter to death. We're also trying not to hide our tax reliefs. We are very proud of them and sell them in, because it is important to contribute to a moderate wage settlement. It is important to stimulate economic development in Norway and to strengthen employment in Norway. But I am very positively surprised that SV so unreservedly says that they support the oil notification, which therefore gives more CO2 emissions than one previously estimated in Norwegian oil policy. Does it mean, then, that Minister for the Environment, Mr Solheim of SV, is wrong when he says that the CO2 emissions from the oil sector are going down in relation to today, when SV is behind an oil policy that actually increases emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1804	I just want to repeat it: we are behind documents that are delivered to Stortinget. Another important document supported by all parties is the climate agreement, which provides sectoral targets for reductions, as well as a target for reductions towards 2020. Now we're working on how to put it into practice, how the race is going to be going on. Due to increased CO2 emissions in many sectors, it is a very important task. So I read the Financial Newspaper -- I don't want to call it a capitalist newspaper -- and many other Norwegian newspapers. Through that, I know that the Progress Party calculates its budget in the areas I went through, completely different from that of the Ministry of Finance and any other party in important areas. When those parties join the government, it will not work. For example, if you: set of 600 billion. kr i fund and receive a return of 24 bn. kr the following year, it must be financed in that budget, even if it gives an additional opportunity to have more ‘equities’ in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1814	The government and government parties are in almost all contexts very self-satisfied, and we have seen that from the pulpit today – but perhaps with the exception of Bård Vegar Solhjell. As the representative Solhjell has also pointed out in the evening post some time ago, later the government as if each crown was used perfectly, but believes it is not really like this. I believe that the government in particular in the field of poverty has very little reason to be really satisfied. There are now more homeless children and more poor children. The representative, Mr. Solhell, further says that he believes that there should have been a greater commitment to poverty. I believe he is absolutely right in that, and will he ask the representative if he will see to it that the government comes up with measures aimed at poor children and poor families, and ask him: When will the government's efforts and proposals be made in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1821	It has been a very extensive effort to combat poverty in recent years. The minimum pension rate is increasing strongly, the social assistance rates have increased, we have introduced the qualification programme — where the first results are found to be relatively successful — and a new multi-bus pay system. I could have picked up more things than that. That's a bit of the reason, as well as tax policy and other things, that the differences in Norway have fallen below the red-green government, and that we've gotten a lot out of poverty. What can explain the poverty rate in recent years is that many immigrants come to Norway. We're filling in with people in poverty statistics because of it, which quickly gets low income, and it stays standing. For this reason, it is also important that an even greater effort be made to prevent poverty. What I said in that interview was, among other things, that, if more than one department could cooperate more systematically on such an effort, it could have an even greater impact in the future. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1828	I understand that the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, gets a bit stuttered when he has to answer that question, because the reality is that SV is characterized by great confidence, but low self-esteem in terms of welfare policy. The reality is that there were 50,000 more poor children while Kristin Halvorsen was appointed the world's richest finance minister. There's become more homeless. While SV is talking about the importance of interventions for drug users who want to leave the drug scene, the queues have become longer. How long does the government have to spend before dealing with these challenges, and there will be fewer poor children and shorter waiting time for drug treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1835	I regret to say that, but extensive action has been taken in those areas. Minimum pensions, which have increased sharply, mean that there are barely any older people below the poverty line. It's a significant and big change. We have put in place a new system of bumpers, which probably haven't turned on properly, but which makes many more of them part of that system. Social assistance measures have increased. It's the first time that we've had social assistance standards, that they've increased. And I would also like to stress that perhaps the most important prevention of poverty is a kindergarten reform, which means that far more people will be part of the nursery from early on, with the positive impact it has on inclusion, social development and knowledge. Then there is a need for much more extensive investment, including: Because many immigrants come to Norway starting with low incomes, which we need to be included in social arenas, and where we need targeted measures. So yes, much more effort is needed in the future, because fighting poverty is imperative, and there is a need for strong lye.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1848	There were several things I could get hold of in the post of the representative Solhjell. I think, not only today, but in general, that much of what the representative is concerned about is very good. I do not doubt the fight against poverty or the fight against increased disparities, although we point to a lack of results. I have a little magazine in the book, and I thought I saw him give it to the government councillor Borten Moe instead. I might be a little worried about that, because there's a lot of thinking in it, and thinking new thoughts isn't always as clever. But what I see in the book, and with the representative Solhell, is that he's at least willing to say that that's not all that's fascist on the part of the government, and he's thinking exciting thoughts. That is why I would like to refer to one of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has in the budget, which is about to reduce the differences, on which the representative Solhjell was involved, namely to introduce a new step in the top tax, step 3, of 1.5 million. kr. I'll give him the opportunity to think a little bit further about what he could do with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1857	First of all, I want to say that my impression is that State Councillor Borten Moe is able to think about new thoughts, even before he has read a new book. It's very positive, it's important to do it. When I try to think about new ideas, I usually don't do it from Storting's speaking chair, but in other forums. I would therefore like to say that I have noticed that the Christian People's Party has made that proposal. It's an interesting proposal that we won't rule out coming in later budgets. At the same time, I would say that not least in the case of property taxes, a major redistribution has been made. It's probably the most important fiscal redistribution in recent years, where hundreds of thousands of people who paid taxes before don't do it, while people at the top actually pay taxes on wealth. If one looks at statistics on how different income groups in society pay taxes, one would see that the richest in Norway paid less in taxes than many with medium or rather high incomes. Now they're actually praying according to what they're thinking. It's very important, and I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for looking for new ways to get to this. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1863	I would also like to congratulate Solhjell on the book and I am happy to read it. But I'm going to ask for something completely different. In yesterday's Question Time, Solhjell's successor, the Minister of Research, was here. Her answer was quite fluffy. There were people who said something even fainter earlier in the day, so fortunately there were not so many who noticed it. Maybe Solhell can clarify what's really the reason for the gift enhancement scheme. It is a system that has worked well. It's a scheme that's got over 1 billion. kr in gifts from the private sector, but it has nevertheless been abolished by this government. There might be two reasons for that. One is that you don't prioritize it within a framework. It's an honest thing, but then you have to say it. The second is that private contributions to research, which SV has been critical of in the past, are opposed. So what's the real reason? Is that the fear of private people, or is it the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1874	It is very good that private donations for research. The problem was that we could not document clearly after a few years with the scheme that it itself contributed to a larger contribution from private individuals to research. It is countries that have also made large private contributions to research. It may help to turn the contribution in a certain direction, rather than steer the development of the research sector itself. It is good and positive with private contributions to research. Now, when we're going to use public funds to stimulate it, we need to know that it has a significant, documented effect on contributions. We can't say that we have clear evidence of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1884	We are witnessing a calm debate. There are also no demonstrations in front of Stortinget today. If we look up a little and look at what it is like in other countries that have their financial speech, and what it is like in front of their parliament in these days, it is not just alarming inside the hall, it is not least disturbing outside it. It's scary to look at our European friends. The euro is faltering. It is a deep political and economic crisis of our very closest, and it is common people who are affected. We who looked at the Sunday replay, saw the Spanish family who lost their house, where grandmother, mother and child were raised and put on the street. We know that this is going to happen with approx. 200 Spanish families every day. When we go on vacation to Spain and know that almost every other youth we meet in the street is out of work, it illustrates the crisis we're in. What is the big, big paradox is the medicine that our European colleagues must answer with: they must cut the budgets when they really should have increased them. When countries are already in a deep economic crisis, they need to cut further, which at first will lead to increased unemployment, not less. In demanding times, clear political leadership and clear economic choices are required. Political choices are required. That's what we're doing now. We in the Centre Party have been concerned that this budget should be a good, stable, stable and secure budget, creating predictability for Norwegian business, creating predictability for Norwegian jobs. It's been our main priority. We've also had other things to give priority to. We've prioritised having a good family policy, because it's a basic element of society. We have given priority to improving the conditions for commuters, because we depend on people being willing to travel and get to work. It is important for individual and important Norwegian businesses. But the big money is spent on two things. One is a further escalation of the transport budget by 2.4 billion. kr next year, in 2012. Long-term investment in transport over time, with gradual and clear escalation, as this government has done, contributes to increased competitiveness. It helps you and I get faster, and it contributes to a more efficient country. To take my own state as an example, on November 7, a 19 km four-field road opened up on a stretch between Oslo and Strange, Hamar and Ringsack. It's a big grip, and it's full pressure. Industry is another main priority in this budget. Looking at the budget, more good tax measures have been taken to strengthen the Norwegian domestic industry. One is to remove the food production fee. It is a contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of the food industry, which employs about 200 people. 50,000 people. It is a significant and heavy industry for the country, and in certain areas it is a crucial industry. The second thing we've done about taxes is we have increased depreciation rates for agricultural buildings. There is a clear lift, which will give an effect of approx. 300 million. kr annually, which improves the framework conditions for those investing in and setting up agricultural activities. It means a lot to business and employment around the whole of Norway. What amazes me, which has also emerged in the line changes here, is how some parties ignore the importance of 100,000 jobs, how important an industry with a turnover of 120 billion. kr, actually is. With open eyes, one wants to break a concluded agreement between the State and such a heavy industry, and to take a decision today that will fundamentally change the framework conditions for that industry from 1 January. This is not only true for transfers, where the Progress Party wants to cut half on a wink. That also applies to customs. They want to make industry much more vulnerable to export from other countries. It is not just agriculture – I know that someone has prejudiced Norwegian agriculture – but it is also the food industry that would be heavily affected by those changes. That is why I am pleased that there is a good majority in the United Kingdom who want to call about the food industry, who want to ring about agriculture, and who still have an offensive commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1913	After the Central Party changed oil and energy ministers for the third time – so we are now in the process of the fourth Central Party Council in the Ministry of Oil and Energy – the Progress Party has been very pleased. The representative should like to convey our congratulations to the Minister for Energy on behalf of the Progress Party. It's like having an echo of the Progress Party in the department, and that's good. Sometimes I'm a little bit unsure where the Center Party wants to go. When the representative Lundtigen spoke, he was very concerned about renewable energy and carbon, but renewable carbon, not fossil carbon, while the Center Party programme says that the extraction rate will be cut on Norwegian soil – so it will harmonize. But in the oil notification, the government is proposing to increase the rate of extraction and the rate of extraction. The Central Party Minister of Energy will increase the export of gas to Europe, which I fully support. But can the Central Party guarantee that they will support their Minister of Energy and not their party programme when this is to be decided in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1920	There's a lot of premise on that question. I don't go into all the premises, but I want to say what I mean. Firstly, I think the Minister of Energy is able to hear the congratulations and can thank you right away. Secondly, we are very pleased with the new Minister of Energy, which we have put in place. What the new Minister of Energy has done is to be offensive to all parts of Norwegian energy policy, ranging from oil and gas to renewable energy to hydropower. That's good. It should just be lacking that we do not have an energy minister who raises such a significant and heavy industry as the oil and gas sector is for Norway and which has such a great employment effect for our entire country. That's the big group very happy about it. This Minister of Energy has put in place an agreement with Sweden on green certificates, which actually comes into port and becomes a reality from 1 January. It will be of great importance to increase renewable energy production around the whole of Norway. It will have a high employment effect and a high long-term climate impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1929	It is reassuring to hear about oil policy. Yes, we in the Progress Party are also pleased with what has happened to green certificates. It is very good that SV was parked in his resistance to hydropower, so that hydropower also entered under green certificates. The scheme was thus a reality, although five to six years were delayed. In his speech to the representative, he also drew dark clouds over the situation in Europe, and rightly so. But in the debate so far today there has been a lot of discussion about the use of oil money. Already in 2008, the government announced that the dark clouds would probably result in a crisis package. That gives the government no sign of now, and you're very critical of those who want to spend more money than the government has spent. Will the Central Party reject the possibility that there may be a crisis package, which also means spending more oil money than the budget is currently budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1936	Fortunately, in Norway we have set ourselves up to have a great deal of freedom of action. I, for example, I am pleased that we have our own currency which gives us freedom of action in monetary policy in Norway. We also have a great deal of freedom of action as we have a financial situation that makes it possible for the government to do so if new exceptional measures are needed, as we demonstrated in 2008. If this is to prove necessary again, it must be assessed and, where appropriate, action taken. We believe that we now have a good budget, which takes seriously the situation we are seeing today. But the world around us is enormously changeable. What is the reality of European policies and economies in three to four weeks is difficult to say now with the dark clouds that are over some countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1941	Having strongly described what is now called the ‘Dark Clouds’ over Europe, Mr Vedum went on to describe the government’s own budget as solid and predictable, with minor changes. That means you don't take into account what's really going on. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, what changes to the budget presented are best for Norwegian business? What can give us the impulses we need in Norwegian business, when we ignore the changes that have been made in favour of agriculture and the food industry? If he could draw out a few elements of the government budget that are good for business otherwise, it would be nice, because it has been hard for me to see when I have read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1948	I just have to start by saying that I am happy that the Right did not get a pass for their thoughts in 2007 about introducing the euro into Norway, and that is not going to happen either! However, the main direction of the budget – and what the Centre Party has prioritised in order to increase Norwegian competitiveness – is transport. Ever since we entered the government offices in 2005, we have had a targeted, clear commitment to transport, because Norway is a long country with large distance disadvantages. Developing transport, improving road maintenance, expanding the rail network increases our competitiveness. We have been concerned with a stable economic governance that creates predictability for business operators, also in relation to interest rates and exchange rates. And we believe that the sum of the budget creates such predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1958	I understand that the representative will not discuss this with me. Moreover, I fully agree that this with better roads creates better competitiveness. That's why the Right has also granted more than the Government for this. Earlier today, the representative Lundtägen stated that we should discuss the major issues, and with great patos he talked about: ‘What is Norway without woodworking?’ In the agricultural settlement in spring, agriculture was charged a considerable social security charge, which increased the costs, but it was covered for agriculture in the settlement itself. But those who are going to supply Norwegian timber processing, those who produce wood, are still left with this cost. Is it in this way that the Senterpartiet wants to stimulate the type of business in which Lundtigen was involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1965	As one of those who supply wood to the Norwegian wood processing industry, I know very well and have learned for myself what it was like under the Bondevik II government from 2001 to 2005. One of the main challenges for Norwegian forestry industry during that period was the unforeseeableness of tax policy. The average equation in the State budget was removed, reintroduced into the revised budget, and had new arguments each time. Thus, changes in fiscal policy were made during the year, and if they were adapted, a large amount of money could be lost in a short period of time, because budgetary settlements were made with the Workers' Party once and with the Advance Party next time. Those who lost it were the ones who thought long-term in forestry. The most important thing we did in relation to forestry when we took over power in 2005 was to improve the forest fund system, so that it became easier to make long-term and good investments in forests, and we have reintroduced plant subsidies, which make it more possible to take out more effective in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1970	The representative spoke extensively about the government’s tax policy, and one of these charges is the social security charge, which previously increased from 7.3 to 11.1 pst. for agricultural operators. This is compensated by an increase in the agricultural deduction. This means that less use which already balances on the edges of what is economically sound will receive an increase in taxation because they will not benefit from the agricultural deduction in full. This can be in the utmost consequence the hook on the door for some. Does Battle violence mean that this is the way to go to secure agriculture throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1977	If you go into the tax and tax system in this budget and look at it in relation to agriculture, it is very good to see the food production fee, when you see the depreciation rate and when you see the increase in the agricultural deduction in the context. So it's a good budget that's right there, and we're fully committed to it. Another important change that we have made in relation to self-employed people is to improve their rights over time. We have e.g. the introduction of birthrights for self-employed persons. So we believe that the sum of the measures in the budget on taxes and taxes is good, and we think the increased transfers that are there are good. There's a predictability that we don't want to change the customs regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1984	Some of us really have an intense desire to get the Center Party back in the center. One of the values that the centre has always coexisted about is volunteering, and it's going to have the Center Party: when Soria Moria I was created, there was a pretty good section there about volunteering, less bureaucracy and a lot of good center policies. The problem is that all this has been parked, and so all the ambitions you had have fell to the ground. So now one sees that an overall opposition has a huge increase in volunteering, that we have managed to create a broad opposition minority related to volunteering policy and for all the necessary measures, including the creation of a broad opposition minority. One hundred million. kr more in the context of the VAT compensation scheme. Actually, my question is, does the Center Party want to go back to the center?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e1991	The center party is very pleased with the cooperation we're part of. When it comes to volunteering and culture, we've done a lot of work after we got into the government offices. We have implemented the Cultural Promise – a gradual and clear escalation of culture every year. It's been an important bet for the Center Party over time. In terms of VAT compensation, we've been clear that we're going to have a billion by 2014. It's still a goal. A VAT compensation scheme has been put in place, which was not already in place, which has granted 431 million. kr to it, and you've also increased it further this year. But of course, the ambition is that one should move on, but we're on the right track. You've set yourself a clear goal, and you've been willing to spend money on it over time. The goal remains, and it is good that we are united about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2000	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2003	Norway is in a good position. Yes, we're actually almost in a unique position when we see Europe today. But until that, I want to say two important things. The only thing is that we are not unaffected by the situation, and – as the representative Syversen also said in his speech earlier today – there is also a need to look at the economic needs of what is the right budget at the time. The second is that the Christian People's Party believes there is a need to make clear priorities within a responsible framework. It does the Christian People's Party. We're allowing more than 2 billion. kr more for family and education. We do well to lift the elderly care, we guarantee 1 billion. kr more for the guarantee of the dignity of the elderly. We're giving priority to the Russians and poverty with another 1.5 billion dollars. kr. We give priority to voluntary activities, both lower taxes on voluntary activities and increased rights. We are increasing assistance to 1.02 pst. by GNI, which is in line with what was in this year, 2011. We also come with a 50 billion owned infrastructure fund. kr. We also increase the government’s increase to the police – among others. in the light of 22 July. We're getting more and more older. This requires us to think again. Not too long ago the government received a NOW called Innovation in Care. There's a public selection that's given a statement, and they choose to think big. The selection proposes to leave 25 pst. by the total number of activities in the care sector will be organised with operations as a non-profit enterprise by 2025. The selection has truly understood it. I want to quote what they write: ‘The new Community solutions can be developed between public and civil society. Non-profit activities and activities in the form of non-profit organisations and user-driven cooperatives should be given significantly greater scope in the development of future care services. The committee believes that this will strengthen the innovation and development work in the care field and invite active participation and the creation of new forms of ownership and operational models to meet the strong growth in care needs expected in the years after 2025. Then one should set a big goal. The Committee proposes that one of the objectives be to organise and run 25 % of the overall activities in the care sector as non-profit-making activities by 2025.» These are great visions for the future non-profit sector that we should notice. The government says in the draft state budget that it will conclude a cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector. ‘Society contract’ is the word used by the Council of State. The purpose of the agreement is to start a process that will lead to better and forward-looking framework conditions for non-profit service providers so that they can develop their service provision in line with the needs of society. The government further states that it encourages the municipalities to enter into corresponding cooperation agreements. I'm pleased with what Rigmor Aasrud is drawing out in his budget just on this. It's because users feel exactly the ideal actors as some of the best. They'll get the best feedback. To use the expression of business, it's those who deliver the goods. That's why the positive signal is now coming from the government in the budget. The Christian People's Party will follow this carefully because we're busy that we're now going to go from word to action in this area. The head of the Finance Committee used the words, "A good budget has become even a little better." So he chose to quote Jon Lilletun. But I don't think Jon Lilletun would have used these words about a budget that chooses to remove the Research Fund. It was an incredibly important matter for him – precisely because he was busy ensuring the long-term. I have wondered what it is that the government is doing well to remove the Research Fund – a solution that is so good, as popular, and of which the industry is so busy. I have wondered if it is because it is relatively close with former finance ministers in this government – both the Minister of Finance today is a former Minister of Finance, Prime Minister Schjøtt-Pedersen is a former Minister of Finance, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg is a former Minister of Finance. In this triangle, I can't use the word triangle. [[muttering in the hall]] If we disagree on many questions, we are at least a few things about one thing, and that is that the transport sector needs a renewal. Today it takes more than nine years to plan a road in this country, and it is only the planning time. When we're done with it, we're going to start building. That's why I think there's a need to look at a renewal of the way we organize this sector. The road sector is organised in the same way today as it was in the late 1960s and early 1970s. What has happened at that time? Well, at that time, traffic has become five-sixfold. There's a completely different need. That's why I thought it was exciting when the Center Party's leader, Liv Signe Navarsete, called for a renewal and to look at the challenges we have within that sector. I also want to quote our Prime Minister, who says that ‘if Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly’. That is what the Prime Minister said in Question Time on 26 October. ‘We don’t have to buy roads on pay, we can give them cash’, says the Prime Minister. But what has happened under this government? Well, the debt financing of roads has almost doubled under the Stoltenberg II government. The speech I received from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa shows that while we had loan debt in the county toll companies around the country in 10 billion. kr in 2005, is the same loan indebtedness of over 17 billion. NOK now. Then my question is, is the way we decorate ourselves, very stupid? My point is very simple: we need to think about something new when it comes to the organisation of that sector, and I hope that the government realizes that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2032	I find it very interesting to hear the contributions of the representative Hareides, and I experience that he has a heart beating for people and for solidarity between people. Earlier in today's debate, the representative Sanner said that the bourgeois parties have come together on important points. So I want to show that the Right and Advance Party have added tens of thousands of dollars in tax dollars to the people who have the most money on book here in the country. The Christian People's Party, on its side, is going in the opposite direction and is tightening the taxes of the same millionaires by NOK 30,000. My question to Hareide is: is distribution policy an important point for the Christian People's Party, and does he agree with Truer that there is a gathering on the bourgeois side at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2041	Partitioning policies are important for the Christian People's Party, and therefore we have created a tax scheme in which we can increase the minimum deduction. So that's going to take me 2.5 billion. kr on, just because we are busy having a distribution profile in our draft budget that we think is right. It's quite right, as the representative Helga Pedersen says, that we too do, because we think it's wise to make an adjustment to the tax reform, to introduce a new class for those who think more than 1.5 million. kr. That's because we think it's right to do it. So I also want to say that I ended my post. calling for a review of the renewal of the transport sector. The non-socialist parties now stand together, and it's a pleasure to see that the Center Party sees the same need. It's a typical example where the non-socialist parties stand together, and where the Center Party agrees that there is a need that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2049	The Christian People's Party is concerned with climate and has been clear in its expectations for the government's coming climate announcement. The Christian People's Party also shares the SV's view of climate policy, as a matter of international solidarity, and that is very good. The wider the excitement there is in the Stortinget about an ambitious and concrete climate policy, the better it is. But there is currently some uncertainty about the Right attitude to the upcoming climate communication and the follow-up to the climate agreement. The right suggests that climate action in the quota sector is to be seen as a burden and suffering, in particular, rather than a way of ensuring the competitiveness and development of Norwegian industry in the future. The right argues in a way that suggests that the EU ETS alone is sufficient to meet our climate commitments. That does not mean the government, and that is why I am excited about the reflections of the Hareides and Christian People's Party around this. Does the Christian People's Party share the Right's view of how the climate settlement is to be fulfilled? And how will the Christian People's Party behave to sit in an opposition where a majority will reduce the level of ambition in Norwegian climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2058	I am sure that the Right stands by the climate agreement they received, but the paradox for both the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party is that we entered into the climate agreement on 16 January 2008. Then I wasn't even in politics. It is now almost four years since the climate agreement was concluded. I still don't know what time the climate message about how we're going to meet this is coming to Stortinget. It's a paradox for me. So we've seen the targets that we're going to achieve in 2020. When we entered the climate agreement, we had twelve years, now we only have eight. We who are used to working know that the shorter the time we have to do a job, the harder it gets. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2063	I can assure the representative Hareide that the undersigned is also busy working and happy with it. That was in so far as a predictable response from the representative Hareide, so I try again. Instead of running the usual ‘government has paid off’, I would like an answer to the question. Erna Solberg was very well aware of this Monday that she does not want any further action in the quota sector. In this case, it must mean that all Norwegian climate change is to be taken into account in the transport sector. It may not be possible for the chairman of the committee to be particularly happy with that. That means we have to cut the transport sector. How does the Christian People's Party relate to the fact that as far as possible future government partners do not want to follow the promises that Norway has made to the UN Climate Secretariat, which is important for confidence also internationally, but primarily for Norway to continue to be a forward-looking society? I suspect that Hareide is not very comfortable with what Erna Solberg has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2072	I said in my previous post that I expected that the Right was on what is climate agreement. But we have also had a frital state secretary in the Ministry of Oil and Energy who has said that nothing will be done in the oil and energy sector in Norway. Then we all have to ride bicycles, and then we can't have anyone running a car in this country – if we're going to meet the climate agreement. And that's what's going to be paradoxical here. I am partly in agreement with what the Snorre Valen says in his article here, that we are forced to meet our obligation, we are forced to follow up the climate agreement. But that's what's going on. The paradox is that there is now almost four-year anniversary of the climate agreement, and nothing has been agreed here in this room afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2077	We in the Center Party have expectations of the Christian People's Party and that as a good centre party they also have a focus on the content of politics. Then I'll refer you a little bit from the content of today's setting. First aid: right proposes to cut 929 million. kr, the Progress Party proposes to cut SEK 7.1 billion. kr. So agriculture: the right proposes to cut $1.7 billion. kr, Progress part 6.5 bn. kr. So culture: the Progress Party proposes to cut 1.3 billion. kr. So alcohol: the alcohol charge is going down by 5 pst. How would the leader of the Christian People's Party characterize such a budget if the government had presented it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2086	That kind of budget I would take a great distance from, because that's what I think I'm going to send Norway in a crazy direction. But the Christian People's Party has very positive experience of working with, for example, the Right Party. We managed, when we put together the government, to get the health cows to go down, while today we find that the health cows are going up. Assistance was referred to by the parliamentary leader Schlagsvold Vedum. Yes, we managed to get a formidable increase in the aid budget, precisely in cooperation with the Right Party. The budget is not the only thing that determines what the Christian People's Party is thinking about when we look at the cooperation issue, it's also many ideologically important things for us. The Christian People's Party is not in a position to do that, but I record that in many things, including in this budget, they stand together as non-socialist parties. Among other things, renewal is an important area for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2095	So we're going back to the regular list of speakers. The next speaker is Trine Skei Grande, who has a speaking time of up to 7 minutes. This is where the game has been divided evenly - almost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2098	That's because we have such a good sisterly distribution of speaking time. The Minister of Finance and the Chair of the Financial Committee have both spoken with a great deal of patosity and have gone out loud today about the importance of prioritising. Budgetary policy is like medicine, it can be right, and it can be wrong. I very much agree with that. But to present this budget as extremely tight – when the government has got 9.9 billion. I don't think it's hard on any European terms either. It seems that the Minister of Finance and the Chair of the Financial Committee have focused a lot on pondus and pathos, but not so much on the word ‘priorities’. Because it is clear that our economy is facing great threats. We're the luckiest national assembly, with the luckiest government, maybe all over the world right now. Then I believe that the budgets should be used to do the big grips. I believe that there needs to be a budget that sets out some major objectives of both creating jobs, laying the foundations for our future well-being, getting a better environment and combating poverty. That is why it has been important for the Left to show that it is within the budgetary framework we have, to bring about a green tax shift. We're moving in our budget now 5.4 billion. kr from red taxes to green taxes. Throughout the period of this government, they've been able to move 1.5 billion. kr, yes, it is actually going in the wrong direction in this budget. If we were to use the space of action that we see as a national assembly now, and as the government has, to really take a big hold for the future, which means that our grandchildren can turn back and say that what was done in that big city, we are living by it today, yes, then we should have invested in knowledge. We should have invested in getting more good teachers into Norwegian school. Left has done so in its alternative budget. We should have been committed to having more specialised educators who helped just those kids who needed the extra push, the extra help and the extra skill around them to be able to master the school day and be able to become what they want them to be when they're going to be involved in creating future jobs. We should have had more health sisters in school, and we should have re-prioritized the homework, so that the homework would have been for those who actually need it, and not forcing all those who are actually so early in school that most mothers and dads can go along with it – yes, they actually want to go with it. We should have invested in the UH sector, where we should have re-prioritized that we'd had 2,000 more places of study, when we know that we're facing a student wave that's going to create great challenges for us by getting all these kids in and getting more knowledge to join in and create the future. We should have prepared for that. We should have made sure that the basic appropriations for universities and colleges were so good that we had obtained the research we need from basic research. We would need more scholarship holders and more mail. Doc. positions. We would have had to invest in research to be able to create the jobs we're going to live on in the future. We should have done those repriorities. That is what the Left has done in its alternative budget, when we see to it that the equipment launch is cut, that we are investing in research, that we strengthen the TaxFUNN and nutrition rights research, that we keep the gift enhancement system and, of course, the Research Fund. We have in the Left a total knowledge effort of 2.3 billion. NOK, and then we ignore our investment in the Research Fund. It is precisely in those times that we should have taken exactly these concepts of knowledge, as that is what we are going to live on in the future – the young people who are going through Norwegian school, the students who are going to go through our universities and colleges, and who are going to create the jobs we are going to live on. Can we not make the kind of re-priorities when we are the luckiest Parliament in Europe? When we have that space of action that makes us really capable of re-priorities, and had the courage to take those grips, then we would really have done some grip that people could have been proud of. The left has opted in its alternative budget to add five such grips. The first is creating more jobs, getting more innovation and using our tax system to bring about more environmentally friendly development, but also a development that creates jobs and a stronger business life. Our second approach is research and education – to invest in knowledge – because that's what we're going to live on in the future. Our third commitment is to climate and environment: more to rail and public transport, more of the grips we know we need to do in terms of climate. Our fourth effort is to combat poverty, especially among children. There are many adults who make choices that they might have taken more responsibility for, but children never choose their childhood. Children never choose who they grow up with. That's why having a poverty stake, especially linked to children, is very important to us in the Left. The last thing is to get a green tax shift, to get a bet on the environment where we can show that, through our national action, we are not just able to bring down climate emissions. I think I can say with certainty that the Left's alternative budget is in fact the only budget that would lead to a decline – not to the rise that lies in all the official budgetary documents – and that would also have led us to create a business life based on the new challenges we face in terms of climate, and which will enable Norwegian businesses to cope with that transition, which we now know that Europe and the world are going through. This means that if we don't manage to make this transition in Norway, we're going to lose a lot of opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2129	It is a tradition in European parliamentarianism that the liberal parties are firmly placed in the centre. We can also say that history has been the case for the Left, but with the budgetary position we have to deal with today, we have unfortunately to say that the Left under the leadership of Skei Grande in many ways, in our opinion, has left that position. The right profile becomes clearer and clearer. The most obvious example of this is what Skei Grande now also affected in her contribution, which is linked to the Left Tax Profile. The debate has also affected earlier. It is indisputable, when we look at the redistribution, that employees get nothing, while they get a lot of money with the tax profile of the Left. Then the issue of the representative is Skei Grande: why is Left doing this? Where has it become of the social liberal in the economic policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2134	I think Martin Kolberg might have read the wrong setting. At least there are no changes. All the major re-priorities, all the big stakes we have in this budget, are the same as we've had over time – including the tax grips. What matters to us in terms of tax relief, and the tax base that really lies there, is the one that goes on the bottom line, which applies to all those who serve the least. For us, it's important to reform the tax system so that we can use the tax system to bring about the changes in action that we want. We want a greener everyday. That means that we want people to make greener choices. Then we'll give them tax relief with the bottom deduction, and then we'll have more environmental taxes, so that people get the opportunity to make the choices seam. The left has always stood for that. That's what the other parties say even when there's a party talking about green tax legislation here, but there's very few who can show it in real budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2142	There was really no answer to the problem. It is quite obvious that I am right in my analysis of the distribution regarding Left's tax profile in this setting. We can just say that is a fact. I shall quote from the alternative budget of the Left what they say about government policy. It states that priority is given to «the granting of tax relief to trade-organised and peasants, while the bill is sent to single caregivers in Oslo and self-employed workers with employees». Then we see the full distribution effect: on the income side, there are cuts in daily pay, labour market measures and in the union quota. The last one may not be so surprising, considering the profile of the Left in terms of the trade unions, especially when Skei Grande speaks out. Why is Left doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2151	The left is the same thing as we've done in the last six years, and the same thing we did in the Bondevik government when it came to the union quota. The left has been for the level of deduction of the union quota that we were for when we were in the Bondevik II government, and that we have been in all the years after. I do not believe that Bondevik II was considered to be a direct union enemy government. I think that level is the right level. That's the level we're going to go on. But we see that the tax bill implemented by the government is just for the trade unions. They want to take these grips. We actually want to give priority to tax relief to those who earn the least, and get a red and green tax return. In fact, we want to give priority to those who create jobs, those who stand and sweat in their own small businesses around this country and create jobs. They are the ones who are going to get a pat on the shoulder with the alternative budget of the Left, and they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2158	I'll pick up the thread from the representative Kolberg. The left is a party that likes to profile itself with a social profile. In this context, I think it is worth noting that the Left has opposed all the important measures against social dumping in Norway: opposing solidarity, opposing transparency and opposing the right to regional protection. The justification left is interesting: the left says that these measures prevent free competition in pay. So the package Left delivers to Norwegian workers, is a more uncertain labour market, lower wages and more temporary jobs. How can the Left defend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2165	Now I'm going to give SV a very sincere, good advice, and that's putting away the old question you're using to ask the left every year, because now it's a little out of date. It's a little untapped both because the government has admitted that many of the instruments actually don't work, and it's a little out of date with the reality of social dumping. The revelations of social dumping are not about these instruments that SV here frames up. The revelations of real slave labour in Europe are not about that either. The revelations of slave labour are about people actually not having the rights they have on paper, but the papers look fine when SV's inspectors come and read them. All the papers can be fine and in order, but it's the other power structures that make people actually lose their freedom. I've traveled around Europe and I've visited those who live in the shelters this is about, those who have really been exploited by the systems. I think SV should care much more about them than about those who check the papers, which are not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2172	Last week we were able to read in the Class Fight that the Left represents a radical liberalisation of the Working Environment Act. They stand to the right of the Progress Party on these questions and have also received criticism from the LO. I, the undersigned, have experience working temporarily in Norway. I'm going to say that it's a life of freedom, it's a life where you are not able to decide when to work, because you have to pick up the phone, be available and take the guards you're being offered – something else you can't afford. Left, which is a party that so much profiles individual freedom – how can you defend that less pay and more flexible working time is a measure to that end?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2181	Now SV claims something that is not true: they claim that we have said that less pay is a measure of individual freedom. It's not a measure for it. So SV also claims that we are located to the right of the Progress Party, as the class struggle has claimed. Everything left to do in the field of labour law is the same Bondevik II when they presented their work environment law. We've encountered exactly the same measures that we've thought are right, since we've been in government, and we've wanted to implement them afterwards. If it's a comfort to the representative Knutson Barstad, I've never had a permanent job in my whole life, but I sometimes see myself having good conditions, sail if I haven't had a regular job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2190	This draft budget goes into a pattern where the Left has moved from the social liberal tradition to the economic-liberalist tradition: free movement, free movement. But that's not what I'm asking. My question concerns the vision of carbon and the bonding of carbon. The left is to use forest measures internationally to bind CO2 from the air. What surprises me then is that the Left does not see in its draft budget that carbon binding has the same effect in Norway as it has internationally, and one removes, among other things. forest planting grants. Why is it better to bind carbon in countries other than to bind carbon in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2200	Now I just have to say that the first statement from Schlagsvold Vedum I think he's struggling to prove – that there's a big right triangle in this budget, but he's invited to do it another time. So to forest planting and forest highways: Forest planting explained Borghild Tenden very well. I'll explain this with forest roads. Some people think you're collecting carbon by building forest roads. That's not true. There is no carbon capture in forest roads. But there's a lot about killing species diversity in Norway. This makes it much more difficult to do the protective interventions that we need to do in Norway. It was amazing for me to be present at the presentation of a big report on how to take care of the diversity of species in Norway together with the Centerpartiet, together with Lundtägen, where they said that one of the really great things we could do in Norway to prevent us from bottlenecking the diversity of species in Norway, is actually cutting off the contribution to forest roads. It's actually an action we're not just outside of the Storting feel is right, we think it's actually when we make budgets as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2207	First, a comment on what we have heard. The representative, Skei Grande, says that she has no policy other than that of the Bondevik government when it comes to the relationship with trades unions and the labour market. No, but it lasts for a long time. It turned out that if it hadn't been a line break since 2005, we would have had a completely different working life today than we have. It had gone down on Norwegian workers. It's just to say about this case that is linked to the union quota, which is a big and fundamental issue in itself, that we note that the left, along with the right parties, will like to give tax relief, but in the case of the trade unions, they provide tax incentives, despite the fact that the labour force is the most important resource we have in the Norwegian labour market. So finally, green taxes: when it comes to what the Left proposes, there's, to a large extent, a question about the Left has a realistic idea of how to get this through with the right parts, which are completely on the other end of the scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2216	For example, many of the measures we want to implement have been taken. For example, in Sweden, with the bourgeois parties, the results were very good, e.g. in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. to add one crown to fuel oil. This has been done across the board in Sweden, and almost the use of fuel oil is gone. So it's going to be fine, if you want it first. Then there's something about poverty and measures about who it is that are the weak in society. It is quite clear that Kolberg and I have a slightly different opinion about it. I believe that the trade unions in Norway are not the weakest. The weakest in Norwegian society are those who are outside the labour market, those who are outside all the schemes that the trade unions have developed. That is why it is important for the Left to fight for higher social assistance rates in this budget, for those who really are outside. That's why it's more important for us to bet on the bottom line instead of a separate special increase in the tax credit for those who are inside, those who already have a job, those who already have a trade union. We'll fight for the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2227	When we were standing here discussing the state budget last year, there was no lack of serious words about the situation in Europe. We might have thought, or at least hoped, that Europe's leaders would have been in control of the most acute crisis now. But it's just getting worse, and what we see playing out right in front of our eyes today, in our own neighborhood, I think is far past what most of us were able to imagine just a short time ago. The crisis is about a debt situation that more and more doubt the ability of countries to deal with. But Europe's really big problem in the long term is that growth stops, people lose their jobs, and the real economy is taking the lead. Ordinary people are the ones who pay the bill – again. The chronic under-funding of European welfare and tax relief policies has expired. It's not sustainable. It has contributed to the creation – and strengthening – of instability. It's just the right-hand side here in Norway that doesn't give up. The right is running more or less a blueprint of its budget from last year — and the year before — with billions of billions in tax dollars. The party's tax proposals are so irresponsible that the Christian People's Party believes they are in another world. So much for bourgeois collection. Taxes give value creation, they say. Yes, tax has an effect on value creation. That's why we have to set up the taxes smart. But it's completely misunderstood that the more you turn the taxes down, the more value creation you get. We have many countries that have tried this. It was not more than five years ago that everyone would do as Ireland did, cutting company taxes to a European level and insisting that the dynamic effects would boost the economy. So they had to be rescued by an EU crisis package. Merkel and Sarkozy have told them to reverse the tax level again so that the business community agrees to pay the bill, and today the country is more or less placed under the administration of the IMF. It goes so little better there, but it's the jam I'm tough thanks. It is a well-known matter that there is a taxi driver to talk to if you really want to get an insight into how things stand in a country. I had a pretty tight ride with an Irish taxi driver a while ago. I can't reproduce what he said, because it would involve the use of a number of unparliamentary expressions, President. But at least he gave a very clear message that he did not intend to waste time voting in the next few years, because it is the IMF that decides in any case. Everyone should of course vote, always, but it's easy to understand the frustration. And that's another very serious feature of what's happening in Europe now. Democracy suffers because people lose faith in the political system, and I'm concerned about what it does to the political commitment of an unemployed and discouraged youth generation that is once to take over the governance of these countries. We know that there are many other elements than the level of taxation that are important for value creation: the level of education in the population, health services, social security networks. Most people even admit that small differences help keep society together and make us more productive. But it has to be financed, and it has to be funded in a credible way. It does not keep a welfare society up in the long term with the tax authorities sketching on the right. The combination of low taxes and good welfare schemes has also been tried by a number of European countries. Norway met with its crisis management. Those who tried to face the crisis with tax havens didn't. It's a historical fact, and it should tell us a couple of obvious things. But the right-hand side of us keeps trying to confuse stories about a strangely high tax level. It seems that they are trying to win first in a tax competition that their conservative friends out in Europe will no longer be involved. It is ‘modern and correct’, said the Minister for Finance. It's absolutely necessary in the situation we're in now, he said. In recent years, we have seen that the Right believes that tax law policy is modern and correct and absolutely necessary, no matter what the world around us looks like. It doesn't matter whether the economy is flying or whether Europe's economy is collapsing. Tax bill is the answer. Then it is constantly referred to Sweden. One even goes on study trips to Sweden to learn from a country that has a unemployment rate approaching 10 pst. They have cut taxes and better managed to maintain their competitiveness, says Right. It is good that the Right is concerned with competitiveness, knowledge and innovation. I'm at any time involved in that discussion, because it's important, but we disagree with many of the answers. What counts is whether Norwegian companies are able to sell their products, create new jobs. We have made that clear, while one of Sweden's most important exports is now unemployed Swedish youth. Yes, we have challenges here at home. It is naive to think that the crisis will not affect us, but we should use the instruments that work – when they are needed – not random tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2250	This morning, we received a rather strange reminder from the chairman of the finance committee. He said we shouldn't criticize, and we shouldn't be negative. We were to be satisfied with the red-green policy and the results that the red-green government had achieved. But fortunately, we have freedom of expression in this country – yet – so that's why I'm going to say what we think is wrong, and what might be better. Most people in Norway have seen it materially well. We're better off than most of the others, but the prospects are not as positive. Many countries in Europe are struggling with large debt, cow welfare and increasing taxes. It will also affect Norway. When European purchasing power is reduced, Norwegian export industries are also affected. In particular, competitive export industries are affected – the shipbuilding industry, the car industry, perhaps also the defence industry, and the tourism industry. It does because it's much more sensitive to fluctuations in demand. The Prime Minister has announced lower growth and higher unemployment in 2012 than what is described in the document we are dealing with today. Uncertain for what reason the Minister of Finance would not respond to the kind of growth estimates on the income side of the State budget that are relevant to the debate we have today. It's a bit of a shame, because we really have a debate that's not relevant – we all know that, but we don't know what the right numbers are, so it's a little hard to be completely specific to the challenges that come in 2012. It's an unwise strategy when you talk about 4 pst. surplus on the State budget, as salary estimates are calculated on the basis of growth estimates. When growth estimates are not reported in the State budget, it is difficult for trade unions to deal only with what the Minister of Finance calls a solidarity settlement. It is possible that they listen to the Minister of Finance, but one could have been more specific about what the growth estimates actually are, so that one had more to do with. The Minister of Finance continues to claim that the government is in good order in the Norwegian economy. There's something media swallowing raw. But what is it really in such a statement? Let's take a closer look at the figures and trends in the Norwegian economy. Yes, Norway has a high level of employment. We have far more women in work than our competitors, and that's good! However, other features of Norwegian working life are not as positive: high-ranking public sector employees and high-ranking social security systems. At the same time, we have granted ourselves new public welfare benefits linked to working life: better leave arrangements, longer vacations, shorter working days, better organised work stations and less physically demanding work. All of this is fundamentally positive. But we've never been sicker, and never have more people been defined as disabled. Unfortunately, progress is going in the wrong direction. Norway is moving into a permanent state of emergency. While large parts of Europe have large public debt and need to tighten up, the government continues to offer their citizens new precious welfare reforms – even welfare reforms that give economic support to people who choose not to use their working capacity. The government describes this as renewing and developing, but the truth is, unfortunately, that more and more people are becoming passive recipients of different kinds of social benefits. We pay off the challenges, and we do it simply because we can afford it – in the richest country in the world. Yes, the Minister of Finance is right. It is currently the order of the Norwegian economy, but the policy pursued cannot be characterised either as responsible or as forward-looking, unfortunately. The government will continue in the same track. Competitive business is struggling with high wage costs and ever lower productivity growth. The hourly salary in Norway is close to 50 pst. higher than in our competitor country. As a result, enterprises are cutting down to a minimum, and more and more people are being pushed out of the ordinary labour market. These are people who in many other countries keep the job, but who have to pay off. In a collective tariff-based wage system, such as in Norway, this is not possible. In Norway, the ‘excessive’ is quickly squandered out of work and left to a passive everyday life on social security – which means that there are 302,000 who are in disservice today – simply because we can afford it, in the world’s richest country. In the richest country in the world, everything is going on! The goal for all of us must be to reverse this negative trend. We have to make it more attractive and economically profitable to create jobs. We have to make it more profitable to hire people, more profitable to contribute. We need to grow in private business. We cannot accept that an increasing number of people are outside and become passive pensioners in the State pension fund. We have to change course. Having a job to go to is actually not a burden, it's a good thing. We have the possibilities. The Norwegian state is a search warrant. We go with hundreds of billion dollars in surplus every year we have over 3,000 billion. kr on book, and the only thing we're busy with in this room – at least the majority in this room – is how to get money to pay people's pensions when they don't work! We even call it Staten pension fund. The first thing we thought about when we got extra income: how are we going to pay people's pensions? So what we're concerned about is how we're going to get money to pay people when they've stopped working. To stop working we do in buckets and buckets. So this is what the Minister of Finance calls responsible economic policy – a recognition nod from the seminar economists. Yeah, you know who I'm talking about, right? But such a policy is not recommended in a single textbook in economics. Norway is well placed to re-establish a profitable business. Of course, we will never be able to compete on simple mass production, but we should and must be able to compete on advanced industry and technology. The Progress Party therefore wants to use more of its profits to provide the basis for competitiveness and economic growth. That's why we're proposing solid relief in income taxes, so it's going to be more profitable to contribute, and we're giving the biggest tax relief to those who have the lowest incomes, precisely because it's where they have the most effect. I hope I don't get a question in a line afterwards that goes on that we give the most to those who have the most from before, because that's what I've got every year. The whole point of the Party's fiscal policy is that we have to give in to the bottom, otherwise the policy does not work. I hope I don't get that question, but I can answer – now I have answered already, so I guess I don't get it. The purpose of this is two-part. People will have a greater economic interest in working, and pay demands may be reduced. Lower compensation of employees means lower production costs, lower production costs means cheaper products, cheaper products means more sales, more sales means more profitable enterprises, and more profitable enterprises form the basis for enlargements and more employees. This means that more people get to work and get a meaningful everyday life – a everyday day where their presence and effort matter to others. Yes, we will remove the property tax. We want to remove it because we want to increase the investment will. This will lead to increased value creation and more jobs. We want to remove the property tax because we want Norwegian investors and people with money to stay in Norway and invest their money here. We want to remove the wealth tax because we want to secure equity in family-owned businesses so that businesses can invest in new jobs. Norway is soon alone in the world to tax working capital – maybe we are alone! It is symbolism policy with very negative consequences to punish people financially for choosing to invest in value creation and jobs. If you took away the property tax, that would be about. 15 B.C.E. kr. So now we're going with hundreds of billion dollars in profit, and then we can't afford it, which would really speed things up in Norwegian business. And not least, the Progress Party will make large investments in infrastructure, and these measures provide the basis for economic growth. In the past, we were told that we could not build infrastructure, because then there would be pressure in the economy, inflation and pressure on the price of the crown. That argument has gone a little bit of audacity now. We don't hear about it anymore. It was former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen who talked about it – then there was pressure. I guess a lot of people remember the debate we had here. We, who are still in the finance committee, remember that we talked about that. That argument is completely gone, because people know there's no pressure right now -- there's no pressure right now. What we're hearing now is that selected projects are not profitable to expand. It seems more profitable to invest in our competitors’ businesses, in an oil fund that in recent years has barely had a real return at all, or 1-2 pst. The rule of action is fictional, it has nothing to do with returns. The real return has been 1-2 pst. Then I asked the question, "Wanted in relation to what then? How do you make credible financial calculations of the cost of an extra hour in the queue for the company, for the individual employee, for the family or for the family? Norway is going with big profits, and we have money on the book. Every year more and more money is transferred to the State budget, and for this money Norway has gradually become less competitive. They are not transferred to the State budget but transferred to the State pension fund. We've got a much bigger public sector, we've got an immigration policy without sustainability, and we have almost 20 pst. of the adult population on different social welfare measures. 9.5 pst. are on disability pension – 302 000 people – and that is about. 300000 people, in addition to those aged between 18 and 65 who are out of work. In addition, we have 1 million public employees, we have 1.5 million pensioners and 1.2 million children and young people. Yes, we only have 800,000 in private competitive business in a nation of 5 million people. The 800,000 will feed us all if we don't all become pensioners in the State pension fund. The party of progress will reverse this trend. We want to distinguish between money for consumption and money for investment. We want to provide solid tax relief, so that it pays to work and that it pays to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2290	It's going to be line change. The President would point out that it may not be up to the representative to decide what kind of questions he is going to get or will get in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2295	The representative Tybring-Gjedde used large parts of his contribution to attack the government's policy. Nevertheless, he started his speech by saying that fortunately we still have freedom of expression in this country – and then he ended up saying ‘even’. Can the representative clarify what he meant by this opinion and, in particular, ‘end’?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2302	No, it was just a little bit funny after the debate that's been over the last few days. We have had a debate related to freedom of expression and its limitation. That's why I said what I said. I think the representative understands what I'm aiming for, and then it keeps going. I thought it was funny, and I saw that more people thought it was a little polite. I don't fully understand the point of asking questions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2307	The Progress Party proposes the creation of two such state enterprises, the Riksvei SF and the Railway SF, on the side of the State budget. So they justify that the government does the same thing, for example. in the case of State power. But Statkraft is a company that is financed through user payments, not through oil money. Now the representative of the Progress Party says that there is a difference between state-owned companies that themselves finance operations through user payments and companies that are financed through transfers from the Oil Fund. How does the representative really justify keeping the Progress Party’s proposals for new state enterprises out of the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2314	Initially, the Progress Party is not happy in state enterprises at all. We'd rather grant what's necessary to build infrastructure, and then it's about organizing it in the right way. We want to build what's necessary, that's the starting point. So we've figured this out with state enterprises. The working party and the government have for years cheated money on so-called zero-frame transfers, arguing that it has no effect on the rule of action. We have transferred the money to this state company. We think it's a wise way to build roads, and we're convinced that we'll be able to do it. Had not the others been so concerned with the rule of action and defined the economic policy of the Progress Party as irresponsible only we go a penny over the rule of action, we might have done it another way. This is done in such a way that we meet the criteria set by the Workers' Party and the Government for the use of oil money, and therefore the criticism is completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2321	It's always very fascinating to listen to Christian Tybring-Gjedde, for some reasons, I have to admit. But I want to grasp one thing where Christian Tybring-Gjedde expresses a lot of things and opinions that I do not perceive is what is otherwise expressed by the Progress Party in the debate. There is a tremendous skepticism here to make sure that people who fall out of the labour market because they are worn out will get dissatisfaction. It overturns statements against this. Tybring-Gjedde refers to people who are disabled, as people who have chosen to go to social security. I don't exactly remember the wording – I've been offered a social security offer, I think was the starting point of what Christian Tybring-Gjedde said. But he might be able to correct me if I say something wrong. And similarly, welfare schemes are a deed. It's one that's clear from what Christian Tybring-Gjedde says. The second is a scepticism for public employees, the fact that people work in public. But can there be a big difference between welfare being done by people who work in public rather than in private?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2330	The Progress Party wants a minimum public sector. We want as much as possible into the private business, the competitive business, which enables you to produce the goods more reasonably, so that the costs become more reasonable for taxpayers. That's our goal. It is not that we have no respect for those who are under disability pension, but the point is that in Norwegian business, those who have minimal disabilities or other types of things are pushed out of the labour market because the hourly wage and other costs for business are so high that they cannot continue to work in business. The number of young people in Norway is twice as high as the number of young people in Sweden. As far as I know, the working life in Norway is not anything more brutal than in Sweden. I have no reason to believe that the Norse should be something particularly sicker or more infirm than the Swedes. I think maybe you have to try to put the system right, so that people want and have the incentive to go to business and work and earn their own money, and that it becomes a little less attractive to be out of work and out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2339	The representative Tybring-Gjedde is a fresh breath, and thank you for that. The representative did not really want the establishment of state enterprises on the road. Good! It provides the basis for a discussion on that subject further, to which I invited in my post. The representative said that tax relief for those who serve at least is important, because it works best on their ability to work. Good! It's in line with the ability principle, and it opens up the tax system. However, the proposal to eliminate taxes on wealth came; the taxes on wealth introduced in 1881. The removal of taxes on wealth will provide a great deal of relief to those with high financial assets. Then my question is, is it not the consequence of the fact that those who then have great wealth receive large tax credits and thus can work less to have the same for private consumption – that is, the opposite of the introduction of the representative's posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2348	The most important thing is that jobs are created and the money is invested in Norway. What Lundtigen and other red-green politicians are after is a millimeter justice. If one person were to get some unreasonable tax relief, should we take a whole reform and say that no, we can't accept that? The most important thing must be that there is a basis for investing in Norway, creating jobs in Norway, rather than bringing these 15 billion. kr out, and perhaps even more billions out, to create jobs in other countries. When we're alone in having the taxes on wealth, it can't be obvious that the taxes on wealth are wise. It's not like all the senses are gathered here on the lion's tray. It may be that other countries have also thought and found out that they are trying to create some jobs. Then you say that because a few capitalists might get some more relief, we have to remove a whole reform. I think that is unwise policy. We have to start at the opposite end and say, what can we do to create growth in Norwegian business? The taxes on wealth hinder growth in Norwegian business and value added.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2356	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2359	The prerequisite for future value creation is a good school with a focus on knowledge and mastering. For the Workers' Party, the vision is that we should always lift the students, never lower the ambitions. Let me give you some examples: when Aksel and Frida start at the 1st grade, they stand there with backpacks almost as big as themselves, and they tremble with curiosity and learning. We want that curiosity and learning desire to grow. That's why we focus on the first steps in primary school; they provide an important basis for the students' future skills. That's why we focus on teaching aids, and we believe that good but also flexible and accurate ways to provide learning help, which can contribute to both inspiration and learning. The Labour Party wants that when Aksel and Frida start high school from the fall of 2012, they enter a school that allows them to become the best version of themselves. In our budget, we focus on putting each student in the center. Different people learn in different ways, and therefore the teaching needs to be adapted. Research shows that the motivation for the students sinks through primary school, and it is the lowest in the upper secondary school. We have to do something about that, because it can matter to students' learning. One of the things we're proposing is to introduce the electoral profession in high school. It will be an elective subject with clear learning requirements, built on the skills objectives of at least two different subjects. By giving students the opportunity to choose, we also give them opportunities to participate in their everyday life. We know that's important for both motivation and learning. When Aksel and Frida leave high school and go to high school, the goal is to sparkle with learning, as they did when they were out of high school for the very first time. Value creation is both about good basic skills and about adaptability, but it is also about research and innovation. So let me start by saying that I am happy that the citizens acknowledge that the Research Fund has played its part. When it first became known that the fund was to be laid down and replaced by solid budgetary transfers, it became noisy among the citizens. ‘This is the final declaration of failure’ said Trine Skei Grande of the Left. Tord Lien of the Progress Party said it was a ‘scandal’. Now they have joined with the Right to change the Research Fund quite dramatically, so according to the diagnosis they themselves made earlier this fall, their own proposal is ‘a failure statement’ and ‘a scandal’. Them about it! So I want to say that I feel that the bourgeois parties have a rather narrow definition of investing in innovation and competitiveness. Appropriations for research budgets are important, but much more is also important. Our model of society provides security for the individual. Safe people create more because they dare to take more chances; they have the opportunity to run a risk because there is a safety net there. We want boys and girls, like Aksel and Frida, when they grow up, to take their curiosity and learning and create something for themselves, their family and their community for our common future. The biggest problem with the alternative budgets of the civil parties is not the money they set aside, or not set aside, for research, but it is the society you get when you put less emphasis on equality, less on workers' rights and less on good public welfare offers, because then there will also be less security and less innovation. We focus on security and value creation – it is the social model that gives the best competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2378	The time for the morning meeting is immediately at hand. The President will propose that this meeting continue until speaker No. 21 had the floor. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is the representative of Jørund Rytman.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2387	During the 2011 budgetary review, both the Chairman of the Financial Committee, Torgeir Micaelsen, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg, tried to ridicule the use of dynamic effects by the Progress Party in fiscal policy. It has ceased after the Statistische centralbureau's Ådne Cappelen in meeting with the Progress Party concluded that 25 p.m. is an acceptable average dynamic effect in reducing taxes and charges, as the Party of Progress does. Of course, this effect will vary, not only between taxes and taxes, but also between taxes or charges. I am sure that the Prime Minister, the Council of State and the head of the Finance Committee are very well aware of how dynamic effects are occurring, but unfortunately, the aversion of the red-green parties to tax and tax relief is overshadowing all use of a realistic dynamic effect, because, to the extent that dynamic effects are used in the submitted state budget, they do not seem to be. The result is going to be the same as wrong anyway. I will not recommend any of them to start a business, because if they use the same logic there, it will mean that the higher the price they put on the commodity, the more they will earn. Such businesses don't use to survive that very long. By reducing taxes and taxes, turnover will increase and have the same effect as the low-priced chains experience: higher turnover and higher returns. REMA 1000 is a good example of that. By investing in low prices, they make money on high sales. By lowering the tax on income or progress in the tax system, more people want to work more – simply because they get to keep more of their income. It will in turn mean that the turnover of taxable income is increasing, and, in addition, lower taxes will lead to more contributions. This leads to more establishments and jobs. The same will happen by reducing taxes on, for example: cars. Several will replace old, polluting cars, and the placing on the market of new environmentally friendly cars will speed up. This means that more cars are sold at a lower charge, which in turn means that more people pay a fee. When the government and the Ministry of Finance have ignored the dynamic effects, why have they reduced the employer’s fee in some parts of the country? Of course, it's not to be nice, but because they think there's more jobs in these areas. The Party’s tax reductions include reduced car charges, reduced petrol and diesel charges, reduced document fees, reduced electricity charges and removal of inheritance fees. In addition, we are promoting a border trade package in which we propose to reduce tobacco, alcohol and chocolate fees. In the borderline regions in particular, this will lead to more jobs. Today the trade leakage to Sweden is over 10 billion. kr. There are several reasons for this, but the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco is one of the main causes. The government’s proposal to increase VAT does not help with the border trade problem either. It's worth noting that the VAT on food has increased from 11 pst. to 15 pst. since the red-greens entered the government premises in 2005 – and that with the centre part in the driver’s seat. The progress batch also halves the power charge on passenger cars. This will mean that the population will be more able to choose the car they think they need. In addition, that part of the car park that is most in need of renewal, the larger family cars, will be replaced by new technologies. For several years, moving from the districts into the centre has increased. The last figures from the Nordic countries clearly show this. There's a lot of reasons for that. However, a common denominator for government action against this and the ever-increasing movement rate is that the more people move, the more of the same measures the government implements. I've often wondered when the government should understand that when you use the wrong medicine, it's not useful to pee on with more of the same medicine. That's why the Progress Party is using a different medicine. Although this is a complex problem, there are two areas that are important. One is to lower the level of charges that increase the distance costs. That is why the Progress Party lowers the fees on petrol and diesel, and then we invest in road construction and maintenance that is noticed. None of the parts want the government. They keep ripping out more of the medicine that doesn't work. One still sees that the government is concerned about the cost of setting up young people. It seems strange to me when someone knows that it is precisely the government that is largely responsible for it through the extension of the planning and building law that has caused the construction costs to shoot in the weather. Not enough with that, it is added to a so-called document fee, a fee where home buyers have to raise top loans at the most expensive interest rates in order to pay the state the money they so badly need themselves. This is a budget proposal that believes that individuals themselves are able to make their own reasonable choices when they get to keep more of their tax and tax money, contrary to the government's desire to control the population from cradle to grave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2408	The Chair of the Financial Committee opened this day questioning the reality of other parties. I believe in the situation we have around us in Europe, which has not yet been so sensitive here at home, that it is a bold starting point to think that we know best, both about the actual situation and how to deal with it at home. When the leaders of Europe do not know either out or in, this is beyond the limits. We're a country of 75 pst. exports go to the EU. We're totally dependent on what's happening there. Now that we see our growth falling, there's an indication that should be taken seriously. There's no reason to blackmail this. We have tools and we can handle it. But we cannot politically adopt demand from the market, but we can create better conditions for the competitiveness needed to assert ourselves internationally. Now we know that our cost level is 50 pst. of the trading partners. We know that productivity is rather lower than higher, and we know that in the last two to three years there has been a reduction in employment in the private sector – not a disaster figure, but there should be concern. This is precisely why the Right has a budget this year that will provide security through knowledge and competitiveness. There are two important elements: we should appoint our house and invest in education and knowledge, because this is a contribution to industrial policy. It is becoming more important now than ever, in both the short and the long term, for the coming generations, and not least for the adult generation and the already running businesses. In short, we must live up to the Olympic ideal: we must be faster, higher and stronger – not to say darker – because we are initially competing with a cost handicap. It will call for our high-tech solutions, research, development, innovation, and not least the commercialisation of the good ideas. That is why we so strongly prioritise industrial policy in our budget – not by spending more money, but by using it differently and more in the face of value creation. In this regard, I would like to mention a few things. It's important to stimulate the good ideas. We therefore give priority to, among other things: appropriations for new seed funds. I allow myself to quote Trondheim's rapporteur, Rita Ottervik, who says that there will be no filling: ‘The impact is a complete halt to the commercialisation of Norwegian research now and in the next years.’ I strongly support Mr Trondheim's rapporteur and hope that other leading politicians from the same area will take this seriously. We're increasing the funding for the BIA. It's important, because there's research that's close to business and that makes good ideas quickly come into action and get into business. The same applies not least to the tax FUNN scheme, which is aimed at research and development in existing enterprises. I believe that what is happening in existing businesses is often underestimated in relation to entrepreneurial activity. A lot of spin-offs and developments are taking place in existing businesses, so the tax FUNN scheme is very important. It is important to extend its framework so that it can cover even more — and even more. Then I can't leave our budget and the existing businesses without saying that if you could eventually eliminate the tax that goes to the existing companies and that they could use for bud shooting, for investment and for development in their own business, we would each year add Norwegian businesses an amount of between 6 and 8 billion. kr. It is significant, and it is not tax relief to the rich, but it is a measure that enables owners to use their money, that the company can use its money to provide security for the jobs they have – and not least create more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2426	One of many issues that concerns me is that the citizens of the world should be able to deal with those who want to do without any state restrictions, special regulations, protectionism, excise duties, etc., in the interests of the world's poorest country, but also in the interests of Norwegian citizens – freedom of choice. There is too little problem in this room about how Norwegian consumers, Norwegian business, and how we as Norwegian politicians can contribute to more trade, especially with the world's poorest countries. It seems that the government's representatives need debate and more knowledge in this field, especially after a round of lines with the representative Heikki Holmås today, where I challenged the government as to why Norway is doing the worst of all countries in terms of trade with the world's poorest country. I did not get a good answer – I also experienced that the question was attempted to be ridiculed. The fact that Norway comes to jumbo places is ignored if you compare with all Western countries in the world. If it is the case that other Western countries are better, there must be something Norway — or the Norwegian government — doing wrong, and that there is something you can do differently. I therefore thought to say a little more about free trade and customs. With the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we want more trade with poor countries, which is also in line with the ambitions of Soria Moria II. As I see it, there are four angles of incidence. One is, as I said, that Norwegian trade policy harms the world's poorest; the other is the consumer perspective; the third is that customs is priceless; and the fourth is that free trade without doubt brings more people out of poverty. The Norwegian customs walls around Norway mean that companies in poor countries will not be able to sell their products in Norway. It is difficult for producers, especially from poor countries, to compete in the Norwegian market – where we are the worst. We are therefore involved in preventing producers in other countries from entering and offering good products to Norwegian consumers. So go to the consumer perspective. The policy we are pursuing today is protectionist – or selfish, it can be called – and makes the range of products for us consumers smaller, especially in food products, but there are also high rates of customs duties on textiles – clothing, carpets and bed linen. It's priceless for us consumers. Customs are cost-effective for the consumer, for the importer, the bureaucrats have to spend time on this, and not least the producer of the goods. It disrupts a healthy market economy and creates more work for bureaucrats and customs officers, who should also spend their time on more serious issues such as drug trafficking, currency smuggling, human trafficking, piracy, etc. I also believe that more research – and history – shows that free trade creates economic growth and brings more people out of poverty. Trade between traders in different cultures also creates peace, understanding and dialogue – the opposite of war. There are also many other positive ring-effects, as I mentioned, so I want more answers from the government's representatives on what you want to do in concrete terms. It also has some unfortunate ring effects, which I try to illustrate in between, and that, among other things. VG a few weeks ago wrote about, where you took care of all the different customs rates that are on textiles. A journalist – for those who did not – had a very polite description of how it turns out, and the government representative had to admit that there was no logical explanation. On bras, it's 6.9 pst. customs rate, scarf - the weave - has 5,9 pst., tie has 6,6 pst., while the customs rate on panties is now suddenly removed, scarf - knitted – 10,7 pst., pants 10,7 pst., vantages 7 pst. etc. It has many illogical consequences for importers, but also for exporters. I hope the government's representatives can soon get on the track and do so that we get more trade with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2447	The stork is now interrupting its negotiations and taking a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16/16. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2459	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 1 to 4 on Agenda No 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2462	Today, the Storting shall adopt the State budget for the following year. As usual, this is done in a situation where there is uncertainty about economic development. This time the uncertainty is significantly greater than normal. It's because of the big turmoil we're experiencing in the international economy. We are reminded again that the financial crisis is not over. But it has changed character. What started as a banking crisis with falling share prices has evolved to become a job crisis, with rising and persistent high unemployment a sovereign debt crisis, where countries are unable to pay their bills a political crisis, changing governments in several countries and persistent problems in taking the necessary decisions both in the EU and in the United States The EU has adopted various crisis packages, but several elements of the plans still need to be clarified and implemented. The measures have not been strong enough to prevent the spread of the debt crisis, rising interest rates on government debt and new downward adjustments in economic growth. What you've been able to gather about has been too little and too late. In the United States, Congress has failed to agree on how to reduce the budget deficit, and President Obama has not been able to endorse his proposals to create new growth in the American economy. The crisis also hit Norway in 2008 and 2009. We met it with comprehensive measures. The opposition said it was too small and too late. That's not right. The measures were properly arranged and came in time. So far, this has contributed to the fact that, together with Switzerland, we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. After the fall in 2009, we are experiencing new growth. Value creation in Norway has increased for seven consecutive quarters and is now higher than before the financial crisis. Employment has also grown. This week we got new numbers. They show that only in the last year has employment increased by nearly 50,000 people. The majority of these have come from private companies. Overall, this means that we have reached a new record level. Never before have there been more jobs in Norway. Since 2005, employment has grown by over 300 000 people. Two thirds of the jobs have come to private enterprises. It grows well in Norwegian business. I want to give recognition to all those who are betting, developing private businesses and creating new ones. The Norwegian economy is completely dependent on people who dare to bet, dare to develop profitable private businesses. So far, Norway has managed well through the financial crisis. But we make a serious mistake if we believe that when it has gone well so far, there is a guarantee that it will go well in the continuation as well. We must be prepared that a new economic setback will also affect us, prepared for unemployment to increase. On Tuesday I met representatives of some of our main export companies and received a clear message that they were concerned. It is a concern we have to take seriously. Uncertainty is great. It can go better than we think, but it can go worse than we fear. The government has a high level of preparedness for what's going on, and we're ready to act quickly, as we did last week, when we put forward a new state system that ensures export finance. This is important for shipyards and businesses all over the country. The economic uncertainty must be met with a clear will for governance. Here I have three important messages. Firstly, we must keep the economy in order. The total use of money must be sound in order to avoid undue pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. It's important for businesses and people's housing debts. What the country does not need now is uncertainty about the core wall of economic policy. I note that the opposition still fundamentally disagrees with the economic policy mechanism, the level of taxation and the use of oil money – issues that today’s government parties resolved before the 2005 elections. Secondly, it is more important than ever not to promise irresponsible cuts in taxes. The debt crisis in Europe and the United States has once again illustrated that those who believe it is possible to increase their income by reducing taxes are wrong. In several countries, they have hoped that lower taxes would generate growth. But what they've got is debt. I don't know how many examples anyone needs. We have seen it over and over again, and it is also now confirmed: we are witnessing the ultimate death of dynamic fiscal policy. Let us not revive here in Norway a policy that has passed away at death in the rest of the world. Thirdly, we need to increase the growth capacity of the economy by investing in people and creativity. That's why we're betting on improving Norwegian school content. We've increased public funding for research and development by over 5 billion. kr, and we are making a historic commitment to transport. But most importantly, by keeping employment high, we invest in people who develop their skills and are related to employment. That's the best investment we can make. In our 2012 state budget proposal, the government has promoted important initiatives: Police and preparedness are strengthened by over 2 billion. kr. We are fully implementing the long-term defence plan. We are committed to ICT for better services and more efficient public sector. The development of day care places for the elderly continues. We're building a day's offer for people with dementia. Not least, we're betting on hospitals and health services. This week, new OECD figures have shown that we are in the world peak in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, and we have very good results for cancer survival, among the very best in the OECD for the cancers studied. This is a significant improvement from the previous report, in 2009, when we were on average. Now we're at the top. Still, we can and should get better. That's why we set a target of 80 pst in the summer. patients must start treatment within 20 working days of receiving referral with suspected cancer. Some patients will require longer term investigation, while others will need to receive treatment more quickly. We're working on achieving the ambitious goal we set. We increase the appropriations, remove bottlenecks, rate of advanced x-ray equipment and improve the organisation. We're not in the target, but we're impatient, because with even better cancer treatment, we're going to save even more lives. We are the first government to measure and publish the time from the referral received to the start of treatment for cancer patients. This is how we can follow the results of hospitals and make them even better. With the government's draft budget, we are taking new steps for security, for renewal and for well-being, and for work for everyone to continue to be a job no. one. I am pleased that a majority in the European Parliament has decided to follow up this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2524	The Prime Minister said that the dynamic fiscal policy has gone away at death. In my opinion, it lives in the best of order. With regard to the analysis given by the Prime Minister of the economic turmoil in Europe, the picture is considerably more complex than the image presented by the Prime Minister, which I believe is quite simplified and partly flawed. But I want to challenge him on the long-term consequences of the distance that is now going to arise between Norway and Europe. It's about the fact that after the tough grips our European neighbours are now going to take, they're going to have a significantly slimmer public sector and thus also be much better able after a few years to offer much better framework conditions for the competitiveness of their businesses. It's going to be a challenge for Norwegian business. I think that is a challenge we need to discuss, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2531	Firstly, a few words about dynamic tax policy. It is about many countries that have believed that the Progress Party still believes, namely that by reducing tax rates, there can be an increase in income. The United States might be the leading exponent for that. When Bush took over after Clinton, the United States had profit. They reduced taxes. They did not increase growth, but they increased debt. Berlusconi has argued in the same way, argued for tax relief to promote growth. He gave tax reliefs, and it became big government debt. Now taxes are increasing in Italy, but revenue is not going to pay well-being, not to invest in the future, but to pay interest on high government debt. The dynamic tax policy is at least dead in Italy, and I hope that the Progress Party is not trying to revive it in Norway. In the case of Norwegian business, I believe that the most important investment to make business competitive in the years to come is to keep people working. Then we maintain the skills of the workforce, and that's the most important thing we can do to be competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2538	I would like to have a major debate with the Prime Minister on dynamic tax policy, for Norway has also shown that it is possible to get better foundations for more jobs by lowering taxes. So that would make sense. But there's another debate. However, I'm going to give the Prime Minister more time to answer a little more thoroughly the question I asked, because it's far more serious than just talking about keeping people in work. We all agree that jobs are very important. But it's also about how we use the citizens' tax money. Unfortunately, the public sector is growing large, heavy and rigid and is demanding too many. It may be a significant challenge for our business as well as for our ability to finance good and important welfare purposes over time. That's why it means something about what our public sector looks like. The Progress Party has always been concerned with having a slim and efficient public sector, and that debate is becoming even more important in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2545	I agree that it is important to be involved in a public sector. That is why this government has been involved in the renewal of the public sector and public schemes. The main reform of a public scheme in Norway that is likely to have been implemented is the pension reform. It's a reform this government has implemented, and we've been working with for many years, in cooperation with the Stortinget. It is a reform that helps to promote growth and helps to make work more profitable, thus also strengthening business in the future. In addition, this government has made record investments in research and transport. This has been possible for us to do with a proper use of money, because we have refused to spend the large amount of money on taxes. That is why we have had many billions more to spend on the road, at school and at research, as well as on the renewal of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2554	It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister's selective selection of countries and the political systems behind various economic problems. But I want to remember that the country that, through the financial crisis, spent all its money stimulating through tax relief, was England. It was under the leadership of the best friend of the prime minister, Gordon Brown, that everything was put on stimulating through the tax system, and it actually went badly. I agree that it is not always that tax relief is tricked. But really good tax relief is the tax relief that makes the economy work better – the ones that make it more investment in a country, the ones that make it more jobs. It wasn't Gordon Brown's reduction in VAT, but it will be when you remove the property tax that makes people who own businesses no longer have to withdraw the money from businesses. You do that when you make sure that the incentives for work are increased for those with the lowest income. That's what's in the Right Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2559	A persistent problem with right parties is that they combine dynamic fiscal policies and expansionary fiscal policies. Dynamic tax policy is about a theory that if you reduce tax rates, you increase tax revenue. That theory doesn't hold, it's disproved many times. Something quite different is that if you spend more money – almost anything said – then demand in the economy increases, and if there is free capacity in the economy, it becomes growth. But then you can spend the money on cash support, on increased social security rates, on lower taxes or on the construction of kindergartens. It increases demand, but there is something quite different than dynamic tax policy. There is a complete and fundamental mix that the right-hand side is going on, including in the calculations of the alternative budgets today. Dynamic tax policies have gone down at death. You have to be willing to say that it costs money to pay taxes. Then you can be for it anyway, but then it becomes less money for other good purposes. Otherwise, we also have experience of how this worked under the previous government. Then gave the large tax relief, and there was low growth in Norway during that period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2566	Whether the previous period is already documented — not by the Right or by the government parties from the previous period, but by others in this room — that the growth we are now seeing in employment started in 2004. It's in the government's national budget. What the previous government did was make sure to tighten Norwegian budgets and stimulate businesses so that they did not move out of this country, so that for the first time in history, we reached the goal of a krone price and an interest rate at the level of the rest of the European interest rate, thus reducing the pressure on the krone. It was an important growth impulse, it was an important system change. It created a level playing field. Similarly, we want to do so within the tax system, by ensuring that Norwegian investment has a level playing field – that it will not be cheaper for Chinese people to own in Norway than it is for a Norwegian to own in Norway. I have nothing against the Chinese, but I am convinced that a good, solid Westerner will stand through a storm in the Norwegian economy longer than a Chineseer does, if it is invested in Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2571	I have noticed that the Right has now begun to admit that Norway is doing well. However, the explanation that Norway is doing well in 2011 is that the Right fell in 2001–2005. Well, if that's the explanation, it's strange that the Right used large parts of 2005 to explain that if I became prime minister, it would be bad in Norway. Mr. Brende said that if we got a Stoltenberg government, we would lose thousands of jobs. If it was so obvious that almost no matter what I did, it would be fine – because you had laid such a good foundation – it is strange that he threatened that I could become Prime Minister. This was point 1. Point 2: We have created 300,000 jobs – ten times as many as under the previous government. Most of it's private employment. Only in the last year has there been 28,000 more employees in private Norwegian enterprises. It's more than it stayed in four years under the previous government. So how many choices do we have to make to get responsible for what's going on in this country? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2580	The Prime Minister may not be concerned if he or she does not win the next election. Then I think it might be a change. There will also be a renewal of the transport sector. When we have taken up this topic, the Prime Minister has replied: We do not need to buy a route on payment, we can allow them – in cash. But the numbers show that the government is doing the opposite. They're increasing the borrowing to build new roads. Therefore, it is a little difficult to understand that the Prime Minister is standing in the main hall and says one thing – that they do not want to buy a road on payment – and the government does the opposite when they are in charge. They increase the borrowing to, among others: toll companies. Then my question is – I see the Prime Minister has got new Clark Kent glasses: does he look at this with new eyes now? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2589	I see – what to say – clearer with glasses, but this question is so simple that I can answer without glasses. To build roads you need money, and this government has granted more money to roads. [[Laughter]] That's why we're building more roads. Whether you finance roads in one way or another, the money should be allocated before or after. What limits the ability to build roads in Norway is not the country’s access to money, but that is what the Norwegian economy tolerates. We have cleared up space in the Norwegian economy to increase road appropriations significantly in order to build many more roads than the previous government did, because we have been willing to choose it over other things — for example. more money for lower taxes. Borrowing money is not necessary for the Norwegian state. When we have profits, it's unnecessary to borrow money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2596	Today, we have witnessed a financial debate where everyone has talked about how lucky we are in Norway – with the opportunities we have – and how threatening the world outside us is. The government parties have tried to present it as if it were only those who have realized that the world outside of us is threatening. When you look at the government's draft budget, you see a budget that looks amazing in the budget year before. There are no major reforms, there is no great grip. When the Prime Minister presented his grips in his speech now, it was about a few steps on the social side, in ICT, etc. There's no big deal to meet the transitions and the challenges we have outside of us. The left has said that we believe we need some major reforms to meet those challenges. But there are no reforms – it's the most conservative government we've ever seen when it comes to delivering exactly what we've seen in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2606	First, a little reflection on Norway's luck. Yes, we're lucky, in the sense that we have valuable natural resources. But it is very dangerous to think that luck itself can make sure that things always go well in Norway. Firstly, those natural resources shall be developed. It requires an oil and gas policy that makes us actually get those revenues. Secondly, those revenues shall be managed in a sound manner. It is fully possible to achieve poor economic results with oil money. Norway has proved that before. In the 1990s, we had banking crisis, financial crisis and high unemployment – with oil money. So yes, we're going to be happy that we have the oil money, but no, there's no guarantee that it's going well. In addition, a good and steady hand is needed with the management of that money. Thirdly, this budget, as in previous budgets, contains great promises. There's a lot more to it than ever before: almost a double of railway investment and much more to go. Substantial health threats have been implemented — the interaction reform and many other major measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2617	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2620	Yesterday I had an incredibly inspiring day at Rakkestad Secondary School in Eastfold. The school arranged FounderIdol, and the ninth-graders bubbled over by ideas about what they could do in the student enterprise they're going to build and run in the next six months. Rakkestad secondary school has made its own plan for entrepreneurship as a theme and method to characterize the teaching of the three years the students go there. This is how they will develop talents and the business start-ups of the future. Why this story from Rakkestad? Well, because it's a new reminder of how important the teacher is. In 2010, Rakkestad high school experienced that one of their teachers was assigned to this year’s entrepreneurship teacher in Norway. Her knowledge and commitment is an important explanation of the school's success with student businesses and that other teachers have heartily ended up in such a multidisciplinary effort. Professionally strong teachers are important to the good students, but probably even more important to those who are struggling. It's much easier to help students with special needs if you have a bigger repertoire to play on. If one angle of incidence doesn't work, maybe the other angle or the third angle works. The art is to be able to vary the teaching so that one hits all the students and can raise their knowledge and skills. This is a challenge at all levels of school and that education can be adapted to suit boys as well as girls. The right opinion is that good teacher training and systematic continuing education are the main response to how Norwegian school can lift students to even better learning outcomes. This is why the Right believes that there is a need for a forceful effort to increase the skills of Norwegian teachers now — and teachers themselves are asking for it. Researchers agree that professional and pedagogical perfection of teachers is the way to a better school. The 2012 State Budget does not respond to this challenge. The allocation of continuing education is on the ground resting and means a real downturn. In the renewed strategy Quality Competence, the government performs to adjust the ambitions for how many teachers each year will receive a further training offer, and the government even imposes a greater proportion of the bill on teachers. The result is that fewer teachers receive further training, and thousands of teachers have to wait indefinitely. The government actively tightens up its own opportunities to succeed with early efforts, raise students' learning outcomes and reduce the drop-out rate. The right takes on the greatest seriousness of the skill challenge we actually have in school. Therefore, the Right has proposed both a new cost allocation and a further half billion in 2012 for teacher empowerment. The State must ensure that further training is organised so that more teachers can accept the offer and, if desired, also combine further training and work. With the right arrangement, the government takes a significantly larger part of the bill. This means that the local authorities' own resources will be available to more teachers. With the order of the Right, the country's annual commitment to continuing training will approach 1 billion. SEK and 4 000 teachers will be able to receive further training every year. This is more than a double compared to the government's draft budget. In a recent newspaper article, the Minister of Knowledge comments on the teachers and indicates that this has an economic side. Yeah, think about it! Of course it does, and it's an expression of the right-hand priority of the school. Let there be no doubt: a good school is at the top of the Right priority list. If we are serious about the right and obligation to continue training for teachers, a big effort on teachers, as the Right now suggests, is absolutely essential and absolutely necessary. At the same time, the Right will send the message to society that teachers are a profession to which the State has a particular responsibility to ensure up-to-date competence. In all large-scale messages since the red-green takeover in 2005, there is a clear need for increased skills among teachers. For this reason, the government is in a clear collision course with itself when one government budget is presented after another without increasing the appropriations for continuing training accordingly. All the fine words about empowerment for teachers are not worth much when it doesn't come with money. The government's ignorance is rather incomprehensible in a situation where international studies still show that Norwegian school has a good way to go before we can achieve the results that we should have compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2652	In the 2012 state budget, the main field of action in the education sector is to ensure that more young people complete secondary education, and there is a particular effort to strengthen the profession. Today it is such that approx. half of those leaving secondary school opt for secondary vocational training. But when we look at how many complete, and take a diploma, it's approx. 15-20 pst. of a year's coal which does. That means we've lost a lot of people on the way. Some people have moved on to study skills and have been able to study further. Some are still in secondary education, but many have dropped out of secondary education. This is a major challenge for the individual, because we see that standing firm in the labour market is primarily related to whether or not we have completed secondary education. This is a major challenge for Norwegian business, because Norwegian business will lack many skilled workers in the future if we do not manage to increase recruitment here. So I have a capper, and that's raising the status and recruitment to the profession. We have to do that in many ways. We must not least do that through the efforts and cooperation that I and the government have initiated towards the states. We are now systematically cooperating with the states. We've completed one year. We're going to take two more years to get up to completion in higher education, and to make sure through New GIV to follow up on the dropout students. One year ago, we lacked an overview of 10,000 students aged 15 to 21. Now we've found 5,000 of them, and we're not going to give up until we find the 5,000 last ones. It's also about those students who have a long career with failure in school behind them, and who come to the tenth stage with a great level of knowledge that we know they're going to work out high school, we're giving an offer before they start high school so that they can take back some of what they've lost, and stand tougher, not least because they lack so much motivation because of a lot of defeat. We have very good experience with it; 2,300 tenth graders have received this offer this year. With this budget, there will be 4000 who will receive this offer next year. At the same time, we are stepping up the competence of teachers to follow them up. In this state budget, there is also the beginning of the transformation of youth that is crucial to gaining motivation and learning ability, which we know is a vital driving force for learning more and reaching the potential. There's a unison perception in School-Norway that high school was too theoretical and academic through the Knowledge Promise, and that for many students the breadth of what they can and what they have of talents is not shown. That's why we're going to introduce the electoral profession, but we're not going to give up on it. We will ensure that we get a more practical, varied and motivating secondary school, not least by providing school-based teacher training in classroom management – the competence of teachers to lead the class in working differently – which is absolutely crucial in reading and calculating. In this way, we expect that through our efforts to increase respect for practical knowledge, we can get the motivation of high school students. We know that students in Norwegian school are never as motivated as they are at the tenth grade of high school. In order to achieve good quality in school, we need to have a good framework for continuing training of teachers. Let me put it this way: we should be a little thankful that the biggest conflict in this debate between the government and the Right is that the government is in favour of – in a partnership that we now agree with the teacher organisations and the KS – a financing where the state pays 50 pst. of the further training of teachers, where KS pays 25 pst, and where teachers pay 25 pst. The right-hand proposal is 60–20–20. There's not all the world's difference in that, and the big words I guess are a little bit exaggerated. We calculate that this new agreement could lead to 1 700 teachers getting further training next year. But what has been most important to me in this round is to put in place a model that the parties are behind, and where KS encourages the municipalities to take advantage of this offer, because that is what has prevented us from getting a good offer in terms of continuing training for the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2668	It's often about which of the red-green parts have eaten the camels. But I thought I'd ask questions about a camel that has obviously escaped, at least escaped, because it's like in the big-time election campaign all three red-green parties promised in a follow-up to the Quality Reform to introduce eleven months of study funding – a 10 pst. Increase in purchasing power of Norwegian students. In the Soria Moria Declaration and in the State Budget, there were three parties in 2005 and 2009 that agreed in the programmes and in the election campaign, gone. So then it's a little polite for us in the Chamber here to ask questions to the Council of State, which is both the former Minister of Finance and has the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge: What kind of negotiated technical steps have been taken to get to this dissipation piece?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2673	This proposal has not been achieved in our overall priorities for the field of knowledge and education, and that is because we have been committed to getting good research budgets. We've been busy getting more places to study. We've been busy getting rid of the dropout and getting out of high school. We've been busy getting to a more practical and relevant high school. We have been working on providing special education, Statped and the PP service to help more students in the past. So it's a purely priority issue, and it was clarified in the government platform that was negotiated in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2678	Seven big messages in the last five years point to the teacher as the most important thing, and there is a great need to raise teacher competence. If it were just 60–20–20 and the percentage key that was the difference between the government and the Right, then maybe the Council of State would have been close to having a point, but the difference is half a billion dollars, and the difference is 2,300 more teachers each year who can be offered further training. So my question to the Council of State is, how in the world does it harmonize with the fact that one of the big messages is being presented after another, points to the need to raise the level of competence of teachers, and now there is a strategy with the parties that will slow down the pace of the further training to be offered to Norwegian teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2683	This is related as follows: We have had an agreement with the parties, but the municipalities do not use a really rough system from the state to ensure further training for the teachers. This means that even if we had taken 2 500 teachers into account in the budgets for further education, the municipalities have used 1500. Ergo was the problem that we had a model that the municipalities did not use to a sufficient degree. Then we've been negotiating with the parties and getting a new distribution of costs, and the state's share has gone up from 40 pst. to 50 pst. The municipalities have gone down from 40 pst. until 25 pst. This means that KS is now recommending this. But I have no faith that we can get up from 1,500 to 4,000 in a year just because of increased appropriations. This is something we have to build up, and so I think a realistic calculation based on a new model is that we can get up from 1,500 to 1700. Then, of course, we have to step up further, because this is essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2690	The Christian People's Party has for many years addressed the need to do something about high school, and that's what we're doing now. We might have been the first ones out there to say that the election subjects have to go back to high school. They're on their way back in, and that's good. But we have some concerns about the way these are put up, because we see indications that they are very centralized, and they don't trigger much local creativity. The second is that the theory ghost can threaten this, because the electoral professions are not fully funded. It's clear that making production for the hall and stage without any means to do it is not going to be a pretty good way to do it. So to what the Council of State said in its statement: How does the Council of State think that the chosen electoral subjects will be involved and raise the status and inspiration of the profession? There's no sign that these two things are connected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2697	I think that if we get to a high school where the students who master a practical way of learning at best can get more involved, then there are more people who increase the motivation, and it infects the general schooling. But we have to follow up with good reading, which can also be practical, and not least good math training, which is the subject where most students spend time in high school, and where almost 30 pst. of students leaving high school, grade 1 or 2. So this is related, it's not just about the choices. Then we're going to do a lot of high-level work in order to improve the quality of vocational education. The options are fully funded. We've created a model that ensures that two more school hours are introduced, and the teacher's costs for this are funded. Then the municipalities have to follow up on what kind of equipment is at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2705	Governments pointed to the importance of preventing school drop-outs, which is a major cross-political consensus, and which I am pleased that the Council of State spoke about in its contribution. But the problem is that this is not reflected in the current budget. We know there's two reasons why there's a lot of non-response. One is that there is too much counselling in primary school. At the same time, there is a great shortage of learning places. We know that the majority of high school dropouts happen after the second year, when the students are going to learn, precisely because there are not enough classrooms. We in the Progress Party have prioritised these two areas in our budget by 250 million. additional to increased apprenticeship grants and the provision of counselling services. Why has the government not been able to give priority to the same in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2712	It's because I don't think it's the apprentice grant and any increase in what primarily triggers more apprenticeship places. I think it is important first of all to make business very clear how vulnerable it is to the lack of professional recruitment. If Swedes and Poles go home tomorrow, many Norwegian companies join because they do not have good professionals. That's why it's in the business community's own interest to accept apprentices. I'm now in dialogue with the parties to get a new social contract. There's the main emphasis on what we focus on from the state's hand, which the parties are also very concerned about, namely that the quality of the apprentices has to rise. This is done by strengthening secondary education, so that students are better equipped for secondary education, and also by strengthening secondary education and vocational education, so that the quality of apprentices entering businesses is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2719	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2722	I would say that the debate in general and the change of lines after the Prime Minister in particular demonstrate some conclusions. There is a very broad consensus across the United Kingdom that the economic situation in Norway is very good. I would also like to say that I hear no one who does not believe that we are not prepared enough to deal with any more difficult situation. The budget presented by the government, which is to be dealt with today by the Grand Duchy, is in this case a very good starting point for moving forward in view of the challenges created by the situation in Europe. But most of all, it might be so that we can demonstrate that the growth has been good. I hear that special representatives from the right parties are intensely trying to claim that this is not the case. But I want to say it this way: no one is able to say with credibility that the growth in the Norwegian economy over the last few years has not been good. It's been for the best for the whole country and the population. Above all, it may be that we now, when we go into the evening meeting, can say that we do not see any cumulative options, as the Prime Minister said. It is not that the opposition is able to unite on a basic policy as an alternative to government policy. We can just make that clear. It cracks in many directions, from the Christian People's Party on one side to the Advance Party on the other. We can see that. It is in itself a danger signal, of course, about what we can wait for if we cannot manage to continue the parliamentary situation we now have, after the elections. So I would say – and there are certainly many representatives who are going to respond to it, and I would like to have a discussion beyond the evening at that point: what the right parties are showing is what I call ideological poverty. They try to say that the centre-left philosophy of economic policy is immature and even old-fashioned. The representative, Sanner, who must be regarded as one of the foremost representatives on the right, says here: politics is without vision. If you're going to formulate such a sentence, I really have to say that you have to be able to document it. He says that the cooperation, as it is today in relation to the trade movement, is kind of old-fashioned as well. Think about it – when we see that cooperation with the social partners is the basis for all economic growth and for peace and efficiency in the labour market! There has been so much talk from this pulpit about all other kinds of tax reliefs, but the whole civil wing is going on with the trade-organized. But just wait! It's not many days before they're going to talk about the same people that they take 570 million. kr from, by cutting the union quota, shall be those who are now required to show moderation. Thank you very much! It's not just a failure in economic philosophy – but what kind of political morality is that? It is a strong expression, but I will stand for it, both in the rest of this debate and in other debates. It shows exactly what is the philosophy of the right side: that you have to place more burdens on the employees and less on those who have a lot of things in the past. At the same time, they allow themselves to call it modern. We have seen – as the Prime Minister in his speech so brilliantly told us a little earlier – what such policies represent in Europe. That is what I think is the argument for ideological poverty. At the same time, it is believed that we are immature. When they're gonna learn, I'm gonna ask. Finally, because there is no more time: Sweden is the great example. Yes, as a result of its economic policy, the Government of the Moderates has provided, and thank you and price, that 60 000–70 000 Swedish young people come here to get jobs, because in Sweden there are 20 pst. unemployment. It's a big problem. I think that the representative Sanner and everyone else should focus a lot on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2737	The tragic events of the summer show that we live in a very vulnerable society, and that few people can paralyze our society with isolated events. This also shows that the justice sector is one of our most important sectors, and that a well-functioning and fast-acting justice sector is crucial to ensuring the security of society and to protect our democracy, our democratic institutions and our social security. In the introduction to this article, let me praise all those who participated in these events, both the professionals and not least all the volunteers, who risked their own lives to help others. July 22 showed us that we have an emergency response system that did not function well enough in the event of major crises. It's after such events, and especially now that some time has passed, it's natural that some questions are asked. What this has shown us is that we must have an emergency system that is prepared for the unmistakable, and not what we perceive as a normal situation. We have to be better rusted if a tragedy should happen again. We have to go after such a tragedy to take action quickly. The government has – I am going to give the government credit for it – put some necessary measures into this budget. However, it must be allowed to point out that several of these measures are precisely measures that the opposition has pointed out in previous budgetary debates and that have been voted down by the majority. We should also take more measures in this budget now to ensure that we are prepared more quickly. Waiting for more commissions and the coming state budget will, in our opinion, take too long. Police: The Progress Party strengthens the police by nearly 500 million. kr more than the government of this budget. It is to ensure a police force that is absolutely necessary in the situation we are facing in our country now. We need to get more operational positions – police in the streets, not least in this city where we are now. Not least, we need more research capacity, so that matters can be clarified and brought forward to the judicial system. Norway must be the only country in the world that has a type of level education — the high school of police — where you do not guarantee those who are included in the study and who pass the exam, work afterwards. We give every police student who has passed the exam a guarantee that they will get a job in the police and contribute to a safer society. We are proposing our own investment budget, and it is a pleasure to see more and more actors in society supporting this. The Oslo Police have real challenges and not least many national tasks, and they are strengthened in our budget. Not least, the ICT situation in the police is a major challenge, which we need to address quickly. Courts: There is still a very large number of cases – not least civil cases – in the courts. It is strange, therefore, that after two years of scaling up the budget in the courts, the government proposes a significant cut in the budget of the courts, which will mean the termination of judicial annual work in the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2756	You can get the impression that we have a bad health service if you look at some opposition parties' description of our health service. But that picture is not at all true. We are at the top of the world in terms of money spent on health care, and we get good services back to the people of the whole country. We from the red-green parties have in two major elections told the voters that we are not going to give tax cuts, because we want to expand the welfare further. And we, who are position politicians, think it's good to be measured by what we provide from services – and also with us health politicians. In recent days, we have been given figures from the OECD, which has measured survival on some selected diseases. What has the OECD found out when they compared us to other countries? Well, we've second lowest mortality in the world in acute heart attack, we're at the top of the world in terms of brain stroke survival, and we're at the top of the world in terms of cancer survival on the types you've measured. And not enough: we're at the top of the world in low bureaucracy. I'll use 0.8 pst. of the health budget, against 3 pst., which is the average in the OECD. This shows that there is better provision of services for citizens to be able to develop Velferds-Norway rather than to provide tax cuts. This shows that we have nurses and health professionals, doctors and specialists, who every day do a fantastic job on behalf of the community. This shows that if you are courageous politically and dare to make some demanding decisions, such as moving to professional environments and changing structures, you get life-saving health again. But even though we have one of the world's absolute best health services, and are proud of it, we will go on. We can continue to do more for many, still there are patient groups that can get better treatment, and we still have a lot to do in terms of preventive health work. That's why we're adding an increase in patient treatment in hospitals to next year's 1.4 billion. kr. This means that even more people will get help, and that we can improve the quality further. In addition to an increase in hospitals, funding for patient safety work is proposed in the «In safe hands» campaign. We have more to do with patient safety, and as I said earlier, we can also be better at preventing disease. Here is the Interaction Reform, which is due to start from 1 January, very central. So we're also proposing to grant 740 million. kr for its follow-up. The aim of this work is to motivate municipalities to think about preventive health for their citizens. It's smarter, both human and economic, to prevent rather than repair. We also strengthen the fixed medical system by 50 million. kr, because we need more doctors in the municipalities as the cooperation reform is expanded. This, together with the reorganisations that have now been launched, will provide even better health services for our citizens, an offer that will save even more. This is our answer to how to make one of the world's best health services even better. It's demanding, but we have to take care of it. I'm going to use the last minute to comment on the Right's political solutions. Firstly, I think it is obvious how eager the Right has been to reach the Norwegian Health Service. One can get the impression in the media that the right now is the most concerned, is black-painting the health care system, so that it can lay the groundwork for privatisation. This is little worth of a party that sells itself as both decent and factual, and not least a mockery of the tens of thousands who every day make a great effort on behalf of the community. When it comes to international studies that show that we are at the top of the world, yes, it is completely silent from Erna & co. This reminds me more of the Iron-Erna and Calculator-Rights that we've met so many times before. The right-hand proposal from last weekend would provide better cancer treatment. But full release for private, funded from hospital budgets, will provide a weakened offer – not a strengthened one – to cancer patients. You don't get any more specialists and nurses to privatize. You don't get better professional environments by taking skills from the Radium Hospital, Haukeland or the other big ones to give to the small commercial actors. It has also been found by the OECD in its study. Denmark has done this, and the Right has often referred to Denmark. Now they have been passed by Norway in terms of survival for the cancers tested. Nor is it new that we have to move right into the major reforms when we are going to build the country further. We must do that with the Interaction Reform, as far as the Capital Process is concerned. There they are more concerned with the blackmail than with getting good results as a result of the reforms. But history shows that our reforms have led us to where we are today — a very productive country, with relatively small differences and very good health and welfare systems. Then we have to bear in mind that the Right will have a different country, a different system, and that they are fundamental to change, which will not increase private economic wealth. What scares me the most is that the Right now is approaching the Progress Party in its way of thinking about economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2777	In the 2012 government budget, priority has continued to be given to security and preparedness. We're adding up to one of the biggest stakes on social security ever. We invest in nationwide deployment of new digital emergency networks. This investment, plus a reinforced commitment to police and prosecution authorities, amounts to a total of 2.2 billion. to ensure the security and preparedness of the Ministry of Justice's budget next year. The terrorist attacks on Ut Island and in the government quarter of July 22 are still open to many. So far, we don't have a full overview of the entire sequence of events. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, however, immediately reported that our response to the attack is «more democracy, more transparency and more humanity – but never naivety». We need to rehabilitate and strengthen democracy, and at the same time we need to strengthen security and preparedness. Security must be the foundation of democracy. The government will, among other things, strengthen both the response force at Oslo Police District and the police security service next year. We also ensure that the Oslo police have the resources to follow-up the investigation after the attacks on 22 July. At the same time, we focus on having a crew that makes other police tasks not harmful. We still need a visible police force to meet the people's need for security. This effort comes in a situation where many countries cut their public spending, countries we naturally compare with, countries that are more affected by the international economic turmoil. In the United Kingdom, for example: the government has announced significant cuts in public expenditure, which could result in one in eight police officers being cancelled by 2015. Here in the country it is now approx. 1 700 more annual police and prosecution work than when the government joined in 2005. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show, among others: that the profitability rate fell markedly last year. Many go the right way in the justice sector — these are just two examples. The justice sector has been a growing sector for several years. It still has to be. We continue the record recordings at the Police College, and we'll arrange for the graduates to get a job on the floor. Next year we propose to set up 202 annual works in the police department. In addition, we have employed far more civilians in our time, so that police-trained personnel can be used for police tasks. The government is concerned that we should not lose sight of the context of the policy. We need to see the whole chain of criminal proceedings. When the police have received several annual works and resolve several cases, we are dependent on having courts with good enough procedural capacity and sufficient accumulators and staff in the criminal justice system. We have among Europe’s most effective courts, and we have criminal services based on settlements with meaningful content and extensive use of alternative forms of criminal enforcement, such as criminal justice. e-checking. The government wants us to continue to have an effective criminal chain and, therefore, maintain the commitment to the courts and the criminal justice system next year. In 2012, we're expected to spend about 30 billion dollars. kr in the justice sector, and we will focus heavily on the good use of resources. I am concerned about the quality of the services provided, and that of course also applies to the resources of the police. We're going to have the most police force out of every penny. For this reason, the government has announced a broad-based performance reform in the police during this large-scale period. One of the most important aspects of this work will be to look at police work methodology and the capacity of the agency to make use of new technologies. The government has announced a stronger focus on preparedness. The Ministry of Justice and Police will also change the name of the Ministry of Justice and Defence from the New Year. New resources will be allocated and organisational changes are also relevant. Strengthening preparedness is an area of initiative for the government in the future. The aim must be a continuous focus on improvement work, better performance and quality at all stages of the criminal action chain. We must follow the developments in the threat picture, and we must adapt the policy to that. It will be crucial for our security and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2802	Let me first, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, welcome the new Council of State to the first of hopefully many debates here in the Chamber. The Council of State said in its statement that police resources need to be used well. There has been a consensus here in Stortinget over many years that the appropriations for the police should be increased quite dramatically, as they have become in recent years. The Council of State points to the forthcoming reform of results. But I could imagine asking – because these are things that are already urgent now, we need to get more police force out on the streets now, we need to get speed in the investigation capacity: What measures does the Council of State now see in the short term that can help us get more out of the police resources that we have invested in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2809	The improvement work is, as I also said in my post, which should have a continuous focus. Of course, the work on the reform of results is well under way, and of course, quality in service is also at the heart of this work. The focus is on the work processes, methods, objectives and tasks being reviewed. That is the basis for the work that will come back to the Storting in 2012, which is now being put, and which we can then also take a thorough discussion around.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2815	In a response to the Stortinget in June this year from former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, it appears that since 2008, police coverage has decreased to 21 out of 27 police districts. This means that many districts that are already struggling with great distances have had an even more difficult working day. At the same time, we know that prior to the deployment of the police budget in 2012, there are actions such as emergency networks, ICT and other preparedness measures to be financed first. My question to the Council of State is: can she guarantee, with the draft budget presented to the police next year, that we will reverse the negative trend in police coverage – or do we have to expect those who have difficulties from before to get it even more difficult in the fight against crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2822	This is well suited for increasing police force in 2012. It is clear that it has taken some time to train more people. I expect that the representative Aspaker is well-known that when the Bondevik administration was in charge, the recording at the Police College was so low that it will actually take some time before it is possible to get a larger number of officials to work. But in the budget for next year, there is a proposal for 202 new police posts, based on the maintenance of the recording at the Police College, which is record high, and actually three times as high as it was in the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2829	I would also like to congratulate our new Minister of Justice on important tasks. I have to say that I have expectations of what the Minister of Justice will focus on in terms of policy-making in the important field for which she is now responsible. One of her responsibilities is asylum policy. I want to ask the Minister of Justice about this which has to do with children's best in asylum policy. Several times the Christian People's Party has challenged the government on this, precisely because we have seen that there have been so many things in which children's best have had to give up for immigrant-regulating purposes. Our previous Minister of Justice was also very concerned about this and warned that there would be a message to the Grand Council about children on the run. It was actually supposed to come in ours, but it hasn't yet arrived. I want a preliminary answer from the Minister of Justice: what kind of reflections does she make about this that has to do with children's best in Norwegian asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2838	I like the question. We are working to deliver a message on this very topic. It is clear that after many years of responsibility in this area in previous times, this is something that is very hard on my heart, especially in cases where children come in the situation that their parents, for example. do not comply with legally adopted decisions in this country and refuse to return, and also where young lone asylum seekers come to the country – that we also have a thorough discussion of the conditions for these. So I think we'll have ample opportunity to discuss these important issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2843	In its statement, the Council of State stated that there had to be coherence in the criminal proceedings chain. There is a very important role for the courts. The government provided additional funds to the courts in the revised national budget for 2010 and provided additional funds in the 2011 national budget. As a result, the courts could hire several new judges to get away from the balances they had in the courts. Now we see that the government cuts at this level, and the court administration clearly says that this is going to lead to denunciations and redundancies in judicious years. What is the logic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2850	As I said in my post, we have some of the world's most effective courts, and that is this government proud of being able to contribute, not least through the appropriations made. I will need some time to get into which parts of the criminal case chain may require extra attention from this Minister of Justice. I am concerned that we should ensure the best possible effect of every single penny, no matter where in the chain it is used, and that these things are also linked. We'll probably have a discussion about these things, too, for example. in relation to the budget and the budgetary discussion on the budget of the Ministry of Justice in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2858	For a short time, the world rounded back 7 billion people. By 2050 we're said to be 9 billion. I believe that everyone is welcome, there is room, and everyone has a right to opportunities for rich life, for freedom and for democracy. However, it is going to put the world's total resources under even greater pressure than today. I think it's resources enough, but we all have a responsibility to contribute to the better exploitation of these resources, to the implementation of new technologies and not least fair distribution. Let there be no doubt that the world's man-made climate challenges are some of our greatest challenges. But they also need to be addressed at the same time as the world's poverty and development challenges. This is a both–and, it's impossible to imagine a solution or a way of thinking that this is either–or. There are also solutions that need to be found within an international and global perspective, these are global challenges. It reminds us of the climate challenges, it also reminds us of the government's initiative together with the UN, Energy for the All Initiative. There are also major economic challenges in the established economic world, better known as the OECD. Growth is coming in new and other countries, there has been a lot of focus today in this debate, and I want to say justified concern. From a Norwegian perspective, and for this government, it is very important to contribute to the stabilisation and growth of the global economy. The alternative is simply difficult to live with. As far as Europe is concerned, I simply want to mention that I believe that the world has other and more structural challenges over time. It is an ageing population, it is small children's coal and lack of mobility. It gives Europe many challenges, a country that the United States does not have. We've just been visiting the United States. It's a country with good demography and great dynamics. That, I think, gives other opportunities for growth, and I think that's what I'm pointing forward. I also believe that it points to a number of challenges that Europe needs to respond to over time. Norway is also different in this field. We have a healthy demographic development, at least from a European perspective. We have population growth. I believe that is necessary, that is the basis for healthy and good social development. That's adding that this doesn't come of itself. It has led a progressive and partly radical equality and family policy in this country over time. It's not all the parties in this hall that have the same number of shares in and the same reason to be proud of, to say it carefully. However, I would add that when you rain demography, there are children per lady who are the scale, so my contribution doesn't mean anything. I'm a little bit unsure whether it's in line with my prospects of equality, but I accept that the statistics are there. Many have expressed concerns about Norwegian competitiveness. I want to say that we always have to change, we always have to improve within a socially acceptable framework. Here I believe the government delivers in a great way. We are Europe's luckiest country; we have little or no unemployment. It has to go on. But there is also a lot that goes well, and a lot that points forward. Looking at the situation in Norway’s main industries, oil and gas, this is a fantastic development. It's very exciting, what's now happening within minerals and not least in renewable energy production. This provides a strong base for the nation to build on with wise decisions and safe management. Here, too, we deliver. We delivered an oil report just before the summer, we have presented a strategy for growth in minerals, and before Christmas the Stortinget is invited to adopt green certificates. I think there's more than ever a need for stability and predictability. The degree of disparity that the opposition has demonstrated in quite a number of important questions here in the Chamber, I think is simply not pointing forward, and I think that is going to give a completely different election result in 2013 than today's polls indicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2882	This government, after we've heard it throughout the day, has had an interior when it's in the budget, because they've only changed the budget by 30 million. kr from the submission until acceptance. It's amazing. Fortunately, the rescue company received some of this increase. So to the question. In 1998, a project group consisting of a network company in the district of Norway was set up to work on establishing a system for the smoothing of network leases. The project group’s work has been supported by the Energy Norway, Defo and KS Enterprise stakeholder organisations since 1998. On 10 September 2010, they presented their conclusion. The conclusion of the project group is that for approx. 70000 online customers in 24 network companies will have problems with the smoothing of network leases by a 60-million government budget award in 2011. kr. The question will be asked: Why has it been decided to double this permission to 120 million? kr for the financial year 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2889	I would call it a very important structural decision in terms of the goal of equal rent and equal price of electricity across the country. It's just that it's not 120 million either. kr is the price of rentals is the same throughout the country. It's more equal to 60 million. kr, but it's not equal to. The government has now done its job. There will be no proposals for further additions beyond the 120 million. NOK, but it is still important to say that the job is not done. There are still too many differences in electricity in Norway — not only price but also access and security of supply. That is why we are working a lot to improve security of supply, to expand infrastructure and to make sure that changes will give Norwegian consumers even more equal and fairer prices of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2895	The Council of State was concerned with the great uncertainty in the world, and the Prime Minister himself felt that Norway could not expect this crisis to go unnoticed for its own business life, among other things. On the right, we are committed to meeting this challenge and creating security of growth through increased competitiveness and knowledge. It also carries our budget off. But in its budget area, the Council of State has decided to use 60 million. kr extra for balancing the network tariff instead of e.g. to spend 60 million. kr to further strengthen Petoro in order to increase the rate of exploitation and generate large revenues for society, or to add 60 million. kr more to e.g. petroleum-oriented research. Governments have decided to use 60 million. kr to increase network lease smoothing, which, as everyone knows, has only a marginal effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2902	It's quite right that we're spending 60 million. to increase the balancing of network rentals. It's a decision that I'm proud of, that I mean points forward, that brings us a long step in the right direction. But that's not the same thing as we've been giving priority to the other things that the representative Meling here points to. It is the first government in a long, long time that actually strengthens Petoro, in line with national meeting decisions in all three government parties. So Petoro gets its share of growth. It has been important to us for the reasons chosen by the representative. In addition, efforts on petroleum research are intensified – little, but little. That means you get a lot. What I look forward to, however, is to be able to tour the country and say that the Right goes to the choice that there should be much greater differences in the electricity price, depending on where you live in the country. I think that can be difficult to explain in many places in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2909	I agree with the Council of State that it is both a – and when it comes to getting people out of poverty and the great climate challenge the world is facing. As the Council of State said in its statement, the green certificates are in place in a few weeks' time, only by a decision in this Chamber first. There has been a lot of agreement on the green certificates, so I expect such a decision to come. This was something the Bondevik II government was working on. Then we got a little scrapping in 2006, we got the climate deal, and now the red-green ones have negotiated the green certificates. This will give rise to a large-scale commitment to renewable energy. We are getting closer to the low-emission society, which is a goal of the Storting, and it is that climate change requires a great deal of renewable energy. Therefore, it is alarming that the government in the budget announces that they will have a halve of support for Enova in next year's budget. How is the government going to get this large-scale investment when it halves Enova's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2916	I think it must be a misunderstanding. What has always been established is that after the establishment of a green certificate market in which you move out one of Enova's most important tasks, namely support for renewable electricity production, it is natural to look at the overall financial task structure of Enova. However, neither the specific tasks of Enova nor the size of the budget have been taken into account. So where this half of Enova's budget comes from, I find it hard to understand. It's also so that you have to see this in a context. The market for renewable electricity generation will be fed large amounts – additional amounts – through the green certificates. It's not just a prudent bet, it's going to be a multiple of the inputs that will be in the form of wind turbines, transmission lines and hydroelectric power plants. I hope that the opposition will stand behind when we get as far as the concrete projects. So it's like we're not just becoming a low-emission society, we're becoming the "lowest" low-emission society in Europe – 67.5 pst. renewable share is higher than any other European country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2923	Let me reassure the Council of State that the Progress Party is going to be behind the power and wind deployment of green certificates. We are very pleased that the government changed its resistance to hydropower in the system, although, unfortunately, the system delayed for five to six years. With regard to the first two questions, it's strange that the government has 60 million dollars. kr to give to the web-balancing tariff – 60 million. kr that the lobbyists themselves have never asked for, because they thought they were 60 million. kr, which was already enclosed, was sufficient. Now they get 120 million. kr. This testifies to a government that has a little too much money to take the pickers, while a much more important area - the petroleum sector and petroleum-related research - has actually had a cut of 30 pst. since 2006. Will the Council of State do something profound, so that more will actually be invested in petroleum-oriented research in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2930	I am very pleased that the Progress Party promises support in the development of wind and hydropower. However, there is one thing that we need, and there is more transmission system. I hope the Progress Party will be clearer in its support of the government's necessary decision to expand transmission systems and high-speed lines than one was, for example. Last summer, when we strove with the line Sima-Samnanger in the West. Having said that, I would like to say that equalising web rentals in Norway is important. It is important for distribution policy, social and geographical reasons that there is a reasonable similarity in the electricity price. 60 million. kr plus – from 60 million to 120 million. kr – brings us an important step forward on that road, but we are not in the goal. I agree that we need an offensive commitment to petroleum-related research. There is a great deal of money in this year's budget. It is not that there is only budgetary resources above the budget of the government and the government that determines this. It is at least equally important how we provide good incentives for the industry itself to contribute and to participate, so that we achieve our common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2944	There is a very difficult economic situation in Europe, and the impact this has and will have on the population has been a review of the debate throughout the day. Unemployment and well-being are hard hit by countries such as Greece and Spain and create major political and social tensions that will shape Europe for a long time. It makes a big impression on me when Spanish youths talk on television about their everyday lives and lack of faith in the future, young people with higher education who refuse to tell it when they are looking for a job, in fear of being regarded as overqualified and suspected of being really looking for something else. There are young people who have lost their jobs and who have major problems paying their mortgage. Families are put on the street because they don't have the ability to pay their bills. We have images of large, developed areas where apartments are empty while we know that Spanish youths live at home with their mother and father because they don't get a job. This shows us a society of great imbalance. An entire generation is losing in Spain, which has youth unemployment of over 40pst. It's scary. As has been pointed out several times in the debate, the crisis can also affect us. We are a country with an open economy, closely interwoven with the international economy. Not least, the ties are close to our European friends who are our closest trading partners. 66 pst. of what we export, goes to the European market. It's hard to know how the situation will develop, but we have to make sure to be as rusty as possible for what had to happen. The very best way to get ready is to keep order in your own house and keep order in your own economy. Next year's budget is well suited to meet the challenges we face. It's a budget that's adapted to the current situation. Norway cannot afford economic experimentation in troubled times. It's about safe and good governance, and doing what we know works. That's exactly what this budget is adding up to. Some parties probably seem confident and boring, but when it comes to people's homes and jobs, this is a stamp we live well with. We know how important it is for our export industry that we don't get a high interest rate and a high dollar rate. It will mean the hook on the door for many businesses. Last week we had an interpellation debate in this room on the initiative of Gunnar Gundersen and Right. What we debated was the development of competitiveness in Norwegian business. In that debate, Right-wing claims such as falling down on the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and that we are still falling on international rankings. This was repeated by the representative Sanner and others today. These are unsubstantiated claims and an attempt to talk Norway and Norway’s business community down. The truth is that Norway is doing very well in many international organisations, for example: at the World Bank’s headquarters, where it is best to run business. We're also doing better on more international, prestigious measurements now than in 2005. This applies to both the World Economic Forums and other international indices, which could have been mentioned. What is Right’s motivation for talking down Norway may be a trick, but there is reason to believe that this is an attempt to defend the Party’s tax cuts, despite the fact that the countries around Europe have gone away from fiscal cuts in politics and, rather, increases taxes, VAT and excise duties. Right-wing fiscal policy is out of date and immature. The competitive power in Norway is good. We have a well-driven society, a high level of competence, good welfare systems and a stable framework for business. We focus on education, research, culture and business simplification. That's how we get ready for the future. The best objective of good competitiveness is whether we have competitive businesses and profitable jobs. We have – actually 300,000 more today than in 2005. About two out of three new jobs have come in the private sector, seven out of ten in the private sector — the same as in 2005. These are troubled times in Europe. We must be prepared that we too may be affected. However, in order to meet the challenges, we need to have a real sense of reality. In that case, it is not possible to conduct polemics to create a false impression of how Norway is doing. Then you have to stop talking Norway down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2965	‘Small and medium-sized enterprises represent the majority of Norwegian business. Over 99 per cent of enterprises in Norway have 100 employees or fewer. When new enterprises are established and existing enterprises develop, jobs are created and maintained. It is therefore important to provide good framework conditions for small enterprises.» This is to be read on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and the Christian People's Party so agrees. A business manager has said, "We're going to take care of value creation, but the politicians have to give us some room, don't double it for us." This Christian People's Party wants to take seriously. We can't adopt jobs, but we can create predictable conditions, which are the basis of a solid business with a capacity to convert from big business to local government. That's why we want to remove the inheritance tax on a generational change according to the inheritance tax model of the Christian People's Party, we want to remove the property tax on working capital and exempt business owners from dividends when dividends have to be paid in order to pay the property tax. We will also increase depreciation rates for machinery and equipment. This is important in order to create stability and predictability. I want to bring forward an industry that has by no means met stability and predictability, and that is the furniture and interior industry. The Christian People's Party has for several years focused on Innovation Furniture. We wanted to continue the success of this program, which, despite promises from the government, was not carried on. This was an important instrument for increasing the competitiveness of the furniture industry, and several companies have launched new processes and focused on innovation with a focus on design and export, which has also led to the international strengthening of their position by several companies. Through Innovation Furniture, Norwegian furniture design has built reputation, which provides good Norway profiling. The furniture and interior industries have asked to continue the project, and the Christian People's Party considers it regrettable that they meet closed doors. Today, the industry, which employs 10,000 annual works, stands without a national commitment to the instrumentation. Not least when traditional industrial production in Norway is exposed to cost challenges, it is important to facilitate innovation and innovation in enterprises. The cuts of Innovation Norway, which are actually small money in the main context, have also led to uncertainty. The outpatient offices of Innovation Norway are also uncertain whether they have the opportunity to work with the furniture industry because the industry is not a bet area. I want to close my post with a positive action that takes place in my home country, where at least one third of the furniture companies are located. Of the key industries in the regions, this industry has had the biggest challenges as a result of the financial crisis. Through the furniture programme, a stronger innovation, market and internationalisation competence in the industry, with the support of Innovation Norway. It's good and good, but it's a shame that companies in other counties, where two thirds of the companies are located, are unable to participate in such a venture. It will also weaken the industry in More and Romesdal, where several enterprises are suppliers to or have joint projects with enterprises elsewhere. A national effort would be forward-looking and positive and would lead to a proper vitamin injection for furniture and interior industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e2989	As many have seen in this debate: the international economic crisis is not over – it can get worse. In the United States, two parties are not able to agree on measures to reduce deficits and debt. In Europe, the debt burden is deeply reduced by a serious unemployment crisis and social crisis, with high youth unemployment being the most serious. In Greece and Italy, politicians have given up and left to the experts to solve the crowd. It strengthens the distrust of politicians and policies, in the market and among people. In this picture, Norway stands out. In Norway, more jobs are created in the private sector. In Norway, we can continue to expand welfare services rather than cut costs. In Norway, we will complete the transition to the Defence Agency next year, and for the first time, we will ensure that the defence is provided with the means to finance the structure we have adopted. Other countries cut deep into their defence budgets. We build a better and more cost-effective defence. There's a change in the public sector, as Siv Jensen requested. In Norway, we keep the aid budget at 1 pst. by GNI and strengthen efforts to combat climate change in development policy. In other countries, they cut off the aid to the poorest in the world. The main reason Norway stands out in a gloomy picture is not the oil — that is the policy. Keywords: The rule of action on the long-term and prudent use of oil resources to convert into a sustainable pension system a reasonable level of taxation – in line with other countries a fair tax system, more equitable than in most other countries That we are also vulnerable, so we saw in the autumn of 2008. But the policy also worked. The government acted quickly and resolutely. It is because of this policy that we have a larger proportion of the population in work than any other country — and few who go unemployed. That's what gives high value creation. For decades we have built constructive and trusting cooperation between employees, employers and authorities. It has contributed to a resilient and productive working life. Then the recipe is not to attack employees' rights, weaken the work environment law and increase the tax of the trade unions by 570 million. kr, as proposed by the right-hand side. It is all these pillars of a social democratic policy that make us better equipped to meet the economic storm that can break if our European neighbours fail to regain confidence in the financial market. There are these supports next year's government budget is designed to maintain and strengthen. Right-wing spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, said it's important to be able to give priority. That's right. Although we can enjoy a level of well-being most people envy us, as many from the opposition parties have pointed out in this debate, there is – and it will always be – a lack of correction: care for the elderly, where capacity needs to be increased, the railway that needs to be expanded. There are still basins to be filled with water and not with sand. That is why we are also giving priority to such tasks in the next year's budget. So what's the right-hand priority? Well, they add on both here and there -- with tens of millions and even maybe a few hundred million purposes many will think are useful, and where there may be a need for more money. But the top priority is tax relief – $12.6 billion. kr. Of this, it's just about 10 pst. which is aimed directly at business. The rest goes to people. If we look at Norwegian society today, it's hard to claim that it's in private consumption the most serious shortcomings are to be found. But this is the vast majority of the Right – and Advance Party – tax relief that will be applied, while it is in the welfare services that we find the need for improvement. That's where this money should be inserted. That's where we put the money. Right now talk a lot about care, about vulnerable groups, about people instead of money. The right renews the rhetoric, but the right does not have the ability to renew the policy. They hang in the old, in the magic formula of tax relief. Had the Right's tax policy even contributed to a fairer distribution, but it does the opposite. There is no contribution to the solidarity we need in order to maneuver ourselves through what we have to be prepared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3032	Previous speeches may not have intervened in the right-hand alternative state budget. This financial debate is taking place against a backdrop of great economic turmoil in Europe. A growing crisis can also become serious for the Norwegian export industry and thus impact on the Norwegian economy. The fact that Norway is a high-cost country gives us a competitive disadvantage. The only way to compensate for this is to invest in skills, innovative products and services, research and development. In the Prime Minister’s New Year speech for 2010, there was one message that was repeated innumerable times: ‘Knowledge trumps everything.’ It would be thought that such a speech would imply a great commitment to knowledge, education and research in Norway. It didn't work that way. Especially in the field of research, there are low ambitions and lack of understanding that characterise government policies for the time being. Norway is at the bottom of research, both as a percentage of gross domestic product and per capita. When many countries around us are hit by an economic crisis and have to cut public budgets, they protect the research budget. This happened, among other things: in the United Kingdom last year. These are the costs to get us out of the crisis, was the British Finance Minister's explanation when the budget was presented. Many countries have even made a significant contribution to research in the years following the financial crisis. Countries such as the Czech Republic, Austria, Estonia and Portugal have increased their research budgets in the years 2008–2010, which are the third largest of Norway’s. The next EU Framework Programme for Research, starting in 2014, will receive a budget of 50 p.m. greater than the end of 2013. Thus, in difficult times, more is being done to develop knowledge for future growth and well-being in many countries around us – ‘knowledge trumps everything’, i.e. in practice. In Norway, the opposite occurs, with zero in real terms both this year and the next year. The Chair of the Financial Committee, from the Workers' Party, is committed to following the rules of action and to keeping tight budgets. We're also in the right. But Torgeir Micaelsen tells only half the truth about the rule of action: how much money can be spent in the annual budgets. However, the bulk of the population also agreed in 2001 that the use of oil money should primarily be used to strengthen the value creation and growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Therefore, investments in infrastructure, research and development and tax relief for business were prioritised. The government has not followed up on this. Instead, Norway has had a gigantic purchase party there for 140 billion. oil crowns have been phased into state budgets since 2005. The government has not been able to exploit the unique economic space it has had to make investments that can strengthen value creation and competitiveness in the future. Unfortunately, we are already seeing the results today. In terms of both competitiveness and innovation, under the red-green government, Norway has fallen on the international rankings – that is, the opposite of what is necessary when our costs have increased more than our competitors. These are the facts, and they worry us in the Right. It's, unfortunately, not black paint. Curiously, the government has a research minister who spends all his energy explaining why zero growth is great and sufficient, and why it was right to wind up the Research Fund and cut out the gift enhancement scheme – a scheme that has given 1.3 billion. kr in gifts for important Norwegian research in recent years. When the government itself does not prioritise research high enough, it should at least not make it more difficult for others to contribute. Therefore, it has been unusual for all four opposition parties to merge into a joint proposal on both a new and improved research fund and the continuation of the gift enhancement scheme. For the Right, research is one of the main priorities of our alternative budget. A whole 800 million. Let's move on to a strong and ambitious commitment to research. We are convinced that investment in research and development will increase competitiveness and innovation in the future. If we are to maintain a competitive Norwegian business that can finance welfare in the future, that is a necessary policy. But there should be no need for an economic crisis as a backstop to see such links.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3052	Imagine that you are a student — not in Norway, but in Spain, Greece or England. You're lucky to have a place to study, and lucky since Mom and Dad have the money to pay your school money. But when you're done, you hardly get a job. Dropping the studies and working as unskilled is almost impossible. Young people’s opportunities are very limited. This is the opposite of freedom. It's wasting the worst variety, and it's spreading disgust in a society. It is not so strange that in most European countries there is marching in the streets — against welfare protection, against redundancy of public jobs, against increased tuition fees for students. People are, rightly, furious at the well-being of politicians. But politicians have hardly any choice but to reduce public expenditure and increase taxes, because countries are at risk of bankruptcy. Changes have been pushed, and pension reforms in the majority of countries have been threatened. Bureaucracies are much larger than Norwegians, and they exist undisturbed along with corruption and tax evasion — as opposed to Norway. In addition, many of these countries have provided tax relief that they cannot afford, and the dynamic effect has been delayed. Why has the House received an excellent introduction from the Prime Minister earlier this evening? As many speakers have already pointed out, Norway is in a special position. It is not only due to oil and gas revenues, it is due to a responsible economic policy and unpopular — the opposite of populist — measures. The rule of action and pension reform are system interventions that only a handful have a passionate relationship with, but that give us an economic space over time, which other countries can only dream of. In addition, Norway is a transition society, with high trust between people and between countries and residents. And this is what I want to say to Mr. Henning Warloe's previous post: it's not just about research and knowledge. It's also about other elements, which I'm going to get into. Safe people create more because they dare to bet more. Life doesn't matter if you fail as a founder or lose your job in a safe society. Our social model with small differences, high levels of organisation and good work environment law ensures a good working life with a beneficial impact on innovation, restructuring and competitiveness. All of this is based on a high level of research. We're one of the countries in the world that spends the most public dollars per capita on research. We have had a steady growth in research appropriations in all the years that the red-green government has been running, and we are at the top of the world in important research areas for us, such as climate, marine and maritime research. We have 24 indicators in quality and level research. The right should use a lot more, so that they end up with their black paint. When one hears some of today's debaters, it seems that the robustness of research and innovation is raging, and that it will frustrate Norwegian research because there have been two small changes in the research budget. One is that an unstable, unpredictable fund has been replaced by a fixed and secure budget allocation. The second is that a gift-enhancing scheme that barely anyone but billionaires and our major universities have heard of will be terminated. Fortunately, Research Norway is more robust than that. I mean, it's black paint. It's talking research down, and it's giving a wrong picture of what's the state of Norwegian research. And of course -- yeah, it would have been nice to keep this gift-enhancing scheme, increased the appropriations greatly, far more than any opposition party suggests, and given to everyone in Research Norway what they want, as in all other areas. But then we would quickly be in the same economic jam that other countries are in. And it's not worth it. The main input factor in an economy is the labour force. 85 pst. of gross domestic product in Norway is the labour force of people. That's why there's a lot to pick up by enabling people to participate in creating values. Working and investing in people is the wisest thing we can do, and this is a budget where we're doing just that. In other words, we continue to invest in children, young people and young adults, which is the most valuable thing we have. They have a good future ahead of them, but they must be prepared to work harder. They must be prepared to work smarter and better than us, if not all of us in the future are to have poor welfare. We must then provide them with a good basis to deal with the challenges of democratic change alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3075	We are facing two major international crises. One is a financial crisis, which has been a great deal of talk today. The other is climate crisis, which it has been a little bit about. The two crises are interconnected, but I'll start talking about the most important, simply climate crisis. The International Energy Agency recently presented a rather frightening report. It says in black and white that if we can't do anything about the climate within five years, it's too late to reach the 2 degree goal that very many international and national are some if is absolutely necessary to get a safe future. Many people have said that we can't afford to save the climate. Many say that climate action is a threat to Norwegian industry and industry. It's putting the problem completely on the head. Good climate policy is good business policy. One might say that if we don't get good climate action pretty quickly, we're going to risk getting a deindustrialized Norway when the oil age goes to the end. Norwegian business — especially Norwegian industry — has survived because it is in front technologically, and it is in front technologically, among other things. In the 1980s and 1990s, there was a considerable increase in the environmental impact. This gave us a technological development that also boosts productivity and the quality of the products, and that now makes us leading internationally. If we don't do the same thing on the climate side, we're going to lose this technological advantage. The other countries will do the same technological lifting on the climate side as we did on other environmental measures, and if we are not offensive also on climate action, we have ruined the possibility that Norwegian industry can take part in the strong growing market for environmental technologies and for energy devoted to the renewable sector. The government has established a mechanism to support the development of environmental technologies. The scheme has proved to be very popular and fills a hole in the instrumentation system as it can make large investments related to pilot plants. It is a system that is an example of the heavy and strong cooperation we need between the public sector and the private sector in order to meet the climate crisis and the need for industrial change. It is the kind of arrangements we need to further develop and strengthen in the future. This week there has been an exciting seminar in the environmental organization Zero. What's a little interesting is that what I said now, and what I've been saying from this pulpit for two years, namely that good environmental policy is the best business policy, was also the main commodity and the constant penance in Zero's seminar at the beginning of the week. But the most surprising thing is that the EU said exactly the same thing to its climate commissioner. The EU's climate commissioner said that in the EU there are now large parts of the industry that are to be praised for taking more domestic cuts, in order to speed up the industrial transition they need, instead of coming to other countries. It's perhaps one of the most surprising things, and it's a heavy support for the position that SV and I have argued from this pulpit quite many times. The representative Erna Solberg was also at that conference, and she concluded that they were on the climate agreement. But when you look at how they're going to implement the climate agreement, it became a little more inexhaustible. She's obviously going to do a terrible amount of transport, but what she's going to do to make a change in business, so that they can meet the big challenges and be in the front even after the climate work has gone on for a period of time, she's very inexhaustible. This confirmed her in a line-up with Bård Vegar Solhell here today. So I'm really excited to see what the right tool has to do to get to the climate and the business transitions that absolutely have to be done, if they can figure out how much cut we have to take. To save the climate and to secure jobs, knowledge is important. Perhaps the most important part of the knowledge work is to achieve good cooperation between education, research and business. We need to upgrade the status of the profession, as Kristin Halvorsen has been in here before today, and we need to get a stronger cooperation between universities, colleges and business, as we do in a number of networks, such as: is funded by the funds that go to the counties and that Right will cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3094	This financial debate takes place at a time of deep economic uncertainty. Millions of people — not least young people — are affected by unemployment. Many countries suffer from a debt crisis and lack of financial capacity to take action against unemployment. The government has managed to control the country through the first part of the crisis. Norway, together with Switzerland, has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Our neighbouring country Sweden, Finland and Denmark have a leave of between 7 pst. and 8 pst., while the unemployment rate in Norway is 3.2 pst. In the middle of the financial crisis, there are now nearly 300,000 more people at work than it was when this government took over. Two thirds of this growth has been in private enterprises. But the economic storm clouds are also threatening Norway. Our well-being depends on our having our goods and services sold to customers in other countries. Therefore, it is essential to avoid an increase in the level of interest rates and the price at which Norwegian goods and services are more difficult to sell. The government’s economic policy is precisely geared towards keeping the Norwegian economy in order, securing businesses and jobs and providing the basis for the further development of the welfare society. I am pleased that there has been a broad consensus that the government's draft budget is well adapted to the economic situation. There is also a broad consensus on the guidelines for budgetary policy – the rule of action – with one important exception: the Progress Party. There is a broad consensus on monetary and interest policy guidelines, with one important exception: the Progress Party. There is a broad consensus on the importance of income policy and the importance of what the Prime Minister has called a'solidarity settlement', with one important exception: the Progress Party. We need to improve the way the economy works. We need to reduce time use and costs, as this government does with a historic commitment on road, rail and maritime transport. We need to make the important systems work better together, as this government does through the important cooperation reform. We must invest in future creativity, as this government does through a strong increase in the appropriations for research. We need to strengthen access to labour, as this government does through the historical pension reform. There is also a broad consensus on pension reform, with one important exception: the Progress Party. Norway is completely dependent on credible economic policies, not attempts, concerns and uncertainties. Any civil government option depends on the Progress Party. Even Young Left has now opened up government cooperation with the Advance Party. There is therefore a fundamental uncertainty about the economic policy of such a government option: on budgetary frameworks, on interest and currency, on income policy and on reform. This debate has been marked by the crack in the opposition. Right-wing fiscal spokesman, Mr. True, called for clear priorities. Yes, the government has clear priorities: Elder care is being expanded. Hospitals are given increased treatment capacity. The quality of school is being raised. The police are being significantly strengthened. The long-term defence plan is fully implemented. The development of roads, rail and maritime transport is further strengthened. So what are the priorities of the Right and Advance Party? Yes, they give priority to tax havens! Right proposes about 12 billion. kr in tax bill, Advance Party about 29 bn. kr, which could have been used for school, care for the elderly and hospitals. I have noticed that the Christian People's Party, on the contrary, proposes a net tax increase in order to get more money for well-being. On the contrary, the priority of the Progress Party is to cut aid to developing countries by 7.1 billion. kr. They're going to cut the agricultural agreement by almost $7.5 billion. SEK and cut bets in District Norway by 1.3 billion. kr. The Christian People's Party proposes an increase on the contrary. I am pleased that a broad majority in the UK share the government's view that the level of taxation should be continued as it is now, shares the government's proposal to respect both international solidarity, an active policy for value creation in all parts of the country and the further development of care for the elderly and hospitals – and, above all, to end up with the government's policy of order and credibility in the Norwegian economy. It provides the best basis for meeting the challenges facing the Norwegian economy as well. Trials and uncertainties are the latest Norwegian economy and jobs needed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3153	If there is one thing that has shaped this debate, then it is self-esteem from the Workers' Party, not the root of the opposition. But what unfortunately also reflects the Workers' Party is that they have very little insight into what the opposition is promoting, but which they still criticize with great bravour. The Workers' Party's speechwriter could well have had a little more variation in the posts he wrote. But I notice that the Council of State claims that this budget is well adapted to the economic situation. It is clearly one of the points that the propaganda department has decided to make — despite the fact that the budget was promoted under conditions of high growth, high wage growth and low unemployment. Now this debate has been marked by the fact that a expected dark cloud above the horizon, lower growth estimates, but yet the budget is equally well adapted to the situation despite the fact that the only change that has been made is to move 30 million. kr in a budget of 1000 billion. kr. How is it possible that one budget can be adapted to two completely different realities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3162	The working party and not the government have what Solvik-Olsen calls a propaganda department. It is possible that the Progress Party does not always have the same success, but I will not comment on that. What I'm going to say is that this government has submitted a budget that is well adapted to a situation of uncertainty. No new estimates have been provided for the Norwegian economy, as several opposition speakers have said in today’s debate, but it is true that the EU has provided new estimates for the European economy. It could also affect us. We will return to an update of the economic estimates in the revised national budget. However, just being able to take into account uncertainty could take account of the fact that there may be a development that is more difficult than the government initially envisaged, is what should shape a responsible budget, and, in such a situation, there is no room for billions – tens of billions – to be taxed. Then it is necessary to establish stability in economic policy as the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3169	It becomes ridiculous when one claims that the budget is adapted to uncertainty. How in all days does one document it? The progress is not based on 29 billion. kr in tax reliefs, which the Council of State wrongly claimed, but for 21 billion. kr. In a budget that has 300 billion. kr more in tax revenue than in 2005, is not 20 billion. This means that the Progress Party in this budget actually adheres to the action rule, which today's government is very concerned about. That is why I ask again: when the Norwegian Minister of Finance has adjusted the estimates for growth in the economy on the basis of what is happening in the world, how can one budget be adapted to two completely different situations and be very suitable for that, when there are two completely different economic situations we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3178	The President would point out that ‘on the border of ridicule’ is beyond the limit of parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3181	First of all, the Norwegian Minister of Finance has not provided any new estimates. He has referred to the revised estimates that have come from the European Union. Secondly, it is common to calculate the effect of tax proposals on an imputed basis, which I also did. Thirdly, if the Progress Party believes that they are within the framework of the Action Rule, they have referred to – let's say – financial calculations that are not in line with the usual way of calculating budgetary effects. But that's what the Progress Party has to do with its own conscience. The point is that the government, when it presented the budget, showed that there is a great deal of uncertainty about economic policy. That is why a robust budget has been provided for this, which is robust in that development can be even more difficult than what we already see. But precisely in such a situation, there is a need for trust in Norwegian economic policy. There is a need for clear budgetary anchoring, as the government has, as the Progress Party does not. And there is a need for a clear anchoring of interest rate and currency policy, as the government has, as the Progress Party does not. There is a need for a clear income policy line, as the government has, as the Progress Party does not have, and that is why this budget is adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3188	For a government council that obviously has the primary task of holding together a government that every single day is being torn apart, I understand that it is liberating to get into the Storting to throw a little pebble at the opposition. I'm not going to take that joy from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. But let me focus on the important things, how we can create security and well-being in Norwegian society. The Labour Party and the Right agree on the importance of keeping the economy in order. That's how it's always going to be when the Right is in government. But Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen focuses solely on the importance of interest and interest rates. For companies that are fighting in a falling market, it is absolutely essential to have high productivity and good competitiveness. The government's own documents show that the competitiveness of businesses has been weakened every year under red-green governance and that productivity growth fell after 2006. What answers does the government have to the companies that are currently fighting to maintain competitiveness and secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3196	I noticed that former Minister of Industry Burnde said that tens of thousands of jobs would be lost with the government that is now sitting. I note that the World Economic Forum, as Mr. Today's fires are closely related, with a competitiveness index showing that we are now getting better out than in 2005. The World Bank is characterised by the best way of doing business. There comes Norway in the sixth place. The result of whether we have a good competitiveness or not is shown by the fact that we have higher economic growth than our competitors. We have a higher employment growth. We have had a significant growth in employment since this government took over. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. In terms of productivity, productivity growth in Norway is in line with that of the other competing countries from 2005 to 2010, and productivity levels have fallen. It would be relatively sensational if it hadn't, with the big economic crisis that is. We have been concerned that we have taken care of the workplaces. So our productivity is going to be a little bit lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3203	Originally, the Storting should have addressed the climate notification this autumn, a communication with measures based on the target of the majority of population to cut 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. The July 22 attack exposed the climate communication. Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen is Minister for Coordination. With the last few weeks' leak from the government, from different departments, I think the council has more than enough to do. There is a gap in the objective of the climate agreement, and there is a gap in instruments that are absolutely necessary to achieve the objective of the climate agreement. But even more important, there's just a gap in the whole world that's agreed, that's to reach the 2 degree goal. My question is, When will the Minister of Coordination be able to bring together the government so that they can deliver a policy that meets the 2°C target?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3215	The government and Norway are leading one of the most ambitious climate policies in the world. We have ambitious targets, based on the purely natural assumption that we have to be able to stabilize the heating, as the representative here also refers to. Then I ask for an understanding that the situation we have been experiencing has, as the Minister for the Environment has pointed out, made it necessary to have a little more time before the documents requested by the representative are presented. The government is in good hands with that. Sometimes you can read in the paper that there are major discussions in the government in which you are not completely familiar – even at the time when the documents have not come to the government. But the government is going to make a serious effort to prepare the document that the Storting will get for the follow-up to the climate agreement, and as I said, the government is in good hands with it. I'm going to help us get the foundation that Stortinget here wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3227	I ate lunch today with the Icelandic Minister for Trade and Economics. When he heard that we had a financial debate today, he of course pointed out just how lucky we are to be able to discuss budgets in a situation when things are going well in the country, when we have low unemployment, and where we have succeeded not only historically, but also through the financial crisis – and believe me: he knows what he is talking about. Both he and all the other finance ministers would do anything to be in Sigbjørn Johnsen's shoe. The fact that we have succeeded well in Norway is not a matter of course. It's the result of conscious political choices, and it's also the result of political struggle. The Norwegian model of society is unique. It makes us at the top level international in terms of being able to combine even income distribution, well-being for everyone, competitiveness and innovation. That makes many look to us, not just an Icelandic Minister of Commerce. With our model, we stand out from the vast majority of other countries. Our working life is characterized by cooperation. We have a high level of professional participation, low unemployment and strong trade unions. Tripartite cooperation ensures this. We have organized ourselves so that everyone is part of a solidarity team that ensures our well-being, care, health and education. Social security – our common insurance system – gives people something to live on through sickness, unemployment and retirement. This makes us poor in Norway. We maintain strong public ownership that ensures long-term financial interests and control of our natural resources. All of this together is the reason we succeed. That's the Norwegian model. Although the right-hand side ends with the results of the Norwegian model, i.e. low unemployment, good economics, safe welfare, they have, throughout history, fought against the policy that constitutes the model and that has produced the results. More people go to work in Norway than in any other country. The workplace they go to is, for most people, a good place to be, but not for everyone. The government's goal is for everyone to join in. It also applies in the workplace. We'll get more by creating a more inclusive working life. The representative, Skei Grande, in his reply to the Prime Minister, called for new exciting reforms. We'll give you reforms, Skei Grande! With respect to reporting: This government is reforming and renewing the welfare state and Norway every single day – the Nav reform, the pension reform, the Interaction reform, the disability reform, the job strategy and all work against social dumping. Only in the field of work now happens more than ever before. These are major welfare policy reforms, improvement and renewal of the working line and the welfare state, which are increasing the community and which have more to do with it. No one has renewed, reformed and improved more than what we have done. Nav has to work for more people to go with. Therefore, Nav is also winning in this budget – Nav gets what Nav needs to be able to concentrate on following people. In order to get more involved, we have also presented the job strategy in this budget – a strategy with concrete measures to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. We're continuing the qualification programme, which brings those who are far from working life into action. There is a difference between the right hand side's workline and the Working Party's workline. You should not only have a duty to contribute, but you should also have a right to be helped to contribute, to get into work through qualification and action. Because people don't get into work just you take away their social security. But it looks like that's what the right-hand side thinks is the effect when they, for example. removes the transitional aid for lone dependants. Some of the most vulnerable families with children are affected. It eliminates their ability to have a safe income to live off while qualifying for work. The use of whips in this way doesn't get any more, it only creates more poverty. Several are involved in a work life that is safe and of high quality. That is why, in this budget, we are also strengthening measures against social dumping. Here, too, we stand alone, the right side says they are committed to combating it, but do not support our most effective measures against social dumping – nor in this budget. Cut off social dumping affects honest working life, it affects the bottom line of our society, it leads to a two-track working life and is a threat to our well-being. It is an expression of an immature policy and an immature attitude that not everyone should be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3246	I noticed the Prime Minister's speeches here earlier this evening, where he gave a lot of thought about how the working life is in Norway as of today, what the prospects will be for the future, and also about the complexity we are looking out for in Europe. It's a little interesting to listen to the Prime Minister when he says that we have to be prepared for an increase in unemployment: "It can go better than we think, but it can go worse than we fear." This reminds me a little bit about the football coach who said the last famous words before the team went out on the field to play: we can win, we can also lose big today, but we bet on a draw. When we hear this debate, I think in many ways that we have a government that is betting on a draw. There are no future, new, major reforms – no visions and visions of how to solve the challenges, how to get more projects going to secure employment and ensure increased activity, at a time when we are more vulnerable to international economics. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's the government's answer to future visions and visions. A government that looks backwards and not in the future, I don't think it has the right tools to solve the challenges of the future either. That's a little interesting, because the Progress Party has said clearly: we want more activity, we want a high level of employment, we want to create more jobs, so we have also said yes to start Industrial Power More. We have agreed to the projects at Hydro in Karmøy. We have said yes to gas power plants in Forest, and we have said yes to Alcoa's plans. We have said yes to a number of plans that could have led to increased employment, but also maintained employment. What is everyday life for those who work in competitive business, those who depend on having their goods and services sold in Europe, is that they are worried about these days. They are uncertain whether they have a job to go to in the new year, or whether there will be permits. We have a Prime Minister who then until those degrees are clear from this pulpit today that we must expect increased unemployment, and that is precisely in this sector the increased unemployment will come. Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that the sitting government chooses to reverse the rules of permitation, so that it should return to the Storting to change them again, if that situation should arise, which is already likely to occur today from this pulpit. Why in the world do you have to change the rules on permitting? Why can we not maintain these permitting rules, which we know and have experience in – from 2009 – leading to reduced leave, more flexibility and less costs for employers? You have to ignore that. I record in this case that it is only the Progress Party that wants to keep these rules, which we believe makes sense. I also record that both employers’ and employees’ organisations agree with the Progress Party on that very point. Then I want – the last minute I have left – to touch what the Prime Minister said about the greatest reform – the pension reform – and the grip that has been made on the slimming and modernisation of the public sector, when he was challenged by my party leader, that one could then be more at work. Well, that's to some extent true, but a pension reform has been adopted, which is that those who are healthy and have good jobs can stand longer in work, while those who are tired and have hard jobs will most likely have to work for those who fail to have a decent pension when you leave. And not enough of that: a public service pension has been adopted that breaks completely with the intentions of the pension reform, which will lead to more lock-in of the labour market, and will not lead to more retirement by long-term employment. These are the consequences of the reform adopted by this process. I thought that, with respect to reporting, that the Prime Minister has also brought with him, but obviously he does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3260	The tax system is central to funding well-being. Each person shall contribute and pay according to his capacity, but it is also the responsibility of the State and the public to manage the resources and the tax system in such a way as to have the legitimacy and credibility of the individual. It has to a great extent in Norway, and I think we should be very satisfied with that. In the light of the debate we have had around Europe, I would say that the situation down in Europe is much more complex. The threat from Europe and what is happening down there now, we can agree on, but the Labour Party cannot expect that there will be no debate on what is the solution, and especially when you start drawing the experience from Europe up to Norway. In particular, I have noticed that the representative Micasen is very clear about what is right medicine. It is quite amazing when Europe itself can neither diagnose nor find solutions. We know that debt, deficit and overexploitation are an important part of it, but if you could easily get out of it, you would have found solutions. There is a good question of higher taxes, when the tax morality and legitimacy of the system are not there, at all, being part of the solution. Then I think the finance minister was much closer to what's at the heart of the problem, and that's that trust actually disappears. There is a very dangerous situation when confidence is lost in financial markets. I think there are quite a number of leaders down in Europe who are sitting looking for solutions to get it back. I just have to tell my colleague and committee leader, Mr Micaelsen, that it is not entirely up to an AUF rhetoric to discuss the challenges we are facing. For Norway, there is a very special situation. We're completely different from the rest of Europe. Norway is characterised by a strong state and a rather weak private savings. The IMF recently issued a warning against Norwegian debt levels. Thinking that Europe should be the model for Norwegian solutions, I think it is quite special. I think our concern should be directed towards what has been one of the main messages of the Right today, which is the wage increase we have, which – if one follows the government's forecasts in the national budget – can become quite strange, perhaps even more strange than it has been since 2005. We have a salary level of 150 pst. of what the rest of Europe has, and we have a productivity growth that is low, and partly lower than our competitors. It won't last. I am terribly afraid, in line with what the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have been out there warning that we can get a two-part Norway. There's only one angle of attack on it, and it's that we have to develop our society so that we get back the productivity growth we had earlier. It's the long-term way to ensure growth and well-being. The main message of the right is to secure well-being through knowledge and competitiveness. Knowledge is a matter of course. No matter how much oil or how much money we can build up, developing the individual's brainpower and ability to work is the main part of national wealth. Teachers, universities and research are very central. And it's important to ensure a diverse business life around the country that can ensure well-being. In this picture, it is incredible to hear statements such as that the Right’s tax proposal is ‘umodes’. Even more incredible is the fact that the chairman of the Committee on Finance believes that crisis countries in Europe should be a model of Norwegian policy. The right tax proposal is targeted at work and activity through lower taxes on work, more secure jobs through lower taxes on enterprises, and strengthening Norwegian private ownership and increased saving through lower taxes on wealth and more favourable savings schemes. Government parties must feel that these are 'umodes'. They would like to make a settlement with that. Then we say, "Come on, let's take that fight more than we like!" The right lowers taxes on work of more than 3.5 billion. kr. Raising the minimum deduction and raising the rate is the main act. It has very good social effects, and we are amazed at the low-red-green ambitions in this area. The peak tax point, step 2, is raised, and we reverse the government's removal of the right to special deductions, introduces a separate tax deduction for them between 62 and 67 years of age and adjusts the pay-as-you-go limit. Everything is aimed at increasing the job offer and the willingness to work. Here we know that there are indeed dynamic effects – the Minister of Finance knows that, and the Ministry of Finance knows that, and after hearing the Prime Minister earlier today, it may be good to convey some of that knowledge to him too. Property tax is an attack on Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegian residents in Norway. It is a tax that is imposed independently of ability, and it braves Business Norway for the necessary equity to withstand the risks associated with innovation, innovation, growth and development of new jobs. In the long term, the right will remove the property tax and increase the discount rate, lower the rate and lower the primary dwelling rate base. The red-green government has in many ways carried out a pinching exercise against private ownership by doubling the tax on working capital. This is happening in the midst of a crisis in Europe and at the same time that the head of the LO and also the business manager have realised that we have a challenge here. We're removing the inheritance fee. We're doing a series of steps to stimulate value creation: start-up writings of 30 pst. for investment in machinery and equipment, direct costing of investment in R & D and significant improvement of TAX FUNN. In addition, we make improvements for individual enterprises, where the government has taken the line of not giving any special advantages. These are actually owners who take the full and entire risk of developing both jobs and their shops. We're making a provision to build up future investments, and we're introducing a risk premium on the protection rate. Then we also repeat our proposals about the pensioner tax from last year. There was quite a lot of trouble around the conversion, and had it been adopted that proposal right there promoted, no pensioners had come out any worse. I want to come back a little bit to a grip we do in relation to saving. The IMF is concerned about the Norwegian debt level, and we see a housing market that explodes. Both parts should worry the government. It worries us. The grip is on the requirement for equity by, inter alia, housing purchases, and it surprises us that the government is not taking any action in relation to youth. We are at risk of young people not getting into the housing market with such a restriction. The government does not make any improvements to the BSU, where we increase both the tax rate, the maximum amount and the annual savings amount. I think that's amazing and unsocial, especially at a time when housing values are growing so much that it's almost impossible to save fast enough to get that equity if you don't get a government incentive. So once again, it surprises me that here you have a rather unsocial policy towards a group that obviously needs help to get into what is perhaps the most important saving of the North. So a little bit of a vision about this with dynamic tax policies, because I think dynamic tax policies are something quite different than seeing that there are dynamic effects related to measures in the tax system. We got a description of the prime minister, where one got the impression that you would get more tax again by lowering the tax. There is at least no one I know who has claimed. We have identified that some tax-related grips have clear dynamic effects. That's what the Ministry of Finance has calculated for us, and we've included a tiny effect of that in the state budget, while we stay within the same framework as the government. That means that we are not releasing a fiscal policy, as the Prime Minister seemed to suggest. So I think it's pretty important to separate the terms here. It is obvious that there is a grip in fiscal policy that can be done to make it work better and to stimulate growth, and that is what is the main focus of the Right. So finally, I've noticed in the debate for several years that the Bondevik II government should be very pleased, for it obviously found the perfect tax level according to the red-green. We still want the tax level to fall, but at least it should be able to go into the red-green history book as quite phenomenal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3296	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3299	It is a pleasure for me to ask the representative, Gundersen, a question that I would like to ask to more people from the Right today. The starting point is that Norway needs safe economic governance in a world dominated by economic turbulence and where we face significant challenges as a result. Also here at home, it's more important than ever with steady and solid governance and understanding of reality. It contrasts with how the Right in its alternative budget and in the Chamber today repeats claims that Norway falls on international corps, exaggerating the Norwegian tax level and picking out individual industries to undermine the fantastic growth of employment that has occurred in Norway since 2005. Why is the Right so concerned about establishing a bad idea of the Norwegian economic starting point, instead of forming a common front against the challenges we see coming forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3304	I just don't know what I'm talking about in that description of reality. As it turned out from a line I had earlier today, the Right is quite careful to describe that the Norwegian economy is in good condition. We're all going to be very happy about that. But we see clear threats to the Norwegian economy, and we have to prepare for them. That is what we are discussing, and the representative of Kristoffersen should also accept that there is dialogue around it. We only use the figures in the national budget, and it is obvious that there is a breach in the Norwegian labour market after 2008 – then there was a financial crisis. We fully accept that there has been a growth since 2005, but it actually started in 2003–2004, and that should also be recognised by the government parties. So here are the effects that go a little bit beyond the functioning of the different governments, but I think the government will soon wake up to the fact that there has become a whole new challenge in the Norwegian economy after 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3311	The representative defended the Warm Right Cut in his post. I would nevertheless challenge the representative on that, because the right is claiming in its alternative budget that we have a strange, high level of taxation in Norway. That's wrong. It is moderate and lies about the middle of the tree in OECD context. So just as fully, right uses its alternative reality description as a breakpoint for new billion-dollar tax cuts. It's in stark contrast to what's happening internationally. The international debt crisis means the final farewell to the irresponsible tax cuts on the right across Europe. But even when most other countries both reverse and reject this policy, the right-hand side here still believes that tax cuts are the answer to everything. Has not the Right taken on board what is happening in Europe and the ability to modernise and update its policies in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3317	Well, we've definitely considered what's going on in Europe. But I am surprised that the Labour Party does not take on board the fact that the situation is quite different in Europe. As I just described, Norway has the very opposite situation in Europe. We have a very strong state, and we have a very weak private sector. Then I think you should put up a policy that is adapted to the situation where you are. Otherwise, I would like to make a very strong reservation against the fact that some of the Right's proposals are irresponsible. They are very focused on creating economic growth and strengthening the Norwegian growth force. We have good evidence of this also from the Bondevik II government, through SSB analyses. And I guess we're not talking so much about a strange, high tax level, we're talking about strange taxes and taxes like that. the taxes on wealth, which are directly involved in weakening Norwegian private ownership and weakening the development of Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3324	Just a few brief comments and a question. I realize that I've trotted on some very sore toes when I've allowed myself earlier today to point out that sometimes I think that the image Right wants to create by itself, where you're going to be constructive and cooperative, not always matches reality. So just to take the very last thing, the second section of the Right’s comments says about a ‘very high level of costs and taxes’. Then we can discuss costs, that's okay, but it also says the ‘seriously high’ tax level. That's not true. It also has to be able to hear right when you write it in your own setting. Now leave it. I think it is quite polite that the representative, Mr Gundersen, should bring forward the level of taxation from 2004. I can even be quite liberal from this pulpit and say that it was not a bad level; we have actually run the country after six years. If we could agree that that year was a good year also in the Right House, it could really be stability and governance in this country for many years to come. What is Gundersen's comment on such an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3331	The level was very good in 2004. Then the investment tax had been paid off, and the top tax and the kind of taxes were going down. However, it was intended to eliminate other strange taxes, such as the property tax, which hamper the construction of Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegian residents in Norway. It also hampers the innovation capacity of Norwegian companies. So we're probably not going to agree that the 2004 tax level is the perfect one for the future, because the Right wants it down, and we're going to use this targeted to increase the power and growth capacity of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3336	I thank you for your answer. I want to go over to another part of this where I also experience that Gundersen and others feel bored on their toes, namely my claim that I think it is something special that a responsible party like the Right takes on figures from just when the financial crisis hit the world and Norway, and until today. Yes, of course, we had a setback in the private part of the Norwegian economy; that was the whole intention, that was the whole meaning of the global financial crisis. But I think it's a little strange that you can't add that since the bottom was reached in the second quarter of 2010, there are 41,000 new jobs created in the private sector in Norway. The trend is reversed. So the situation is very fragile. But then my point is: why can't Right and Workers' Party rather than discuss what was, and discuss different reality, now form a common front and agree that the most important thing now is to take care of Norwegian jobs into a very demanding time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3345	We can certainly agree that it is important to have a constructive debate on solutions to the challenges we are now facing, but to agree on both the level of taxation and how we are going to tackle it, the Workers' Party spokesman must expect that there is a debate around it. I believe that 2008 and the financial crisis were a breach for the whole of Europe, and we see that today. There are no simple solutions to how Europe is going to get out of these challenges, but I think we are going to assume that continuing to have a strange, high wage development per unit of output, not getting back on a track with high productivity growth, is going to be quite devastating for, in particular, that part of industry and the jobs that cannot live on oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3352	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3355	Through the 2012 draft budget, a four-year long-term defence plan will be fully funded for the first time in several decades. This result makes me proud and happy – happy because I represent a government that has stood 100 pst. behind its financial promises, and proud of the Defence which, by streamlining its operations, has made a strong contribution to the objective of the long-term plan being at port. The current long-term plan represents the end of a fundamental transformation started in 2000 by the Stoltenberg I government, with Bjørn Tore Godal as Minister of Defence. After three long-term plans with increasing achievement, the transition from a traditional mobilization defence to a modern response defence has now been implemented. This is public sector innovation on a large scale. This would not have been possible without clear and clear roadside choices, where long-term gains have been prioritised rather than populist short-term. This does not mean, of course, that the modernisation of the defence is over, but that means that the time when everything was to be thrown into the air every four years is over. From now on, there is more talk of adjustments along the way. As a result, the government has created increased stability and security. We have done that by building a defence that is well equipped to meet both today's and tomorrow's security challenges. Furthermore, the government has helped to provide the basis for the strong growth in the Norwegian defence industry. Our defence industry is highly technologically intensive. The growth here has contributed to innovation, employment and significant export revenues. The 2012 budget proposal strengthens all defence sectors and the Home Office. Through this, we are facilitating increased operational capability, in line with the long-term plan. Maritime defence will sail more. The army gets more staff and more money for practice and training. Home protection shall also exercise more, and by the end of 2012, close to the whole area structure of HV shall have practised at least once during the last two years. The introduction of new helicopters is highlighted in the Air Force. Otherwise, training and training in Air Force is continued at around the high level of the day. Thanks to the fact that we can now extract the synergies of the transition, operational capacity will already increase more than the increase in the budget, which was precisely the point. The majority of the budget escalation shall be in the north. The draft budget strengthens the follow-up of our veterans by another 125 million. kr in 2012 and bet on both defence-related culture and environmental protection. While we are broadly continuing the level of our contributions to foreign operations in 2012, the contribution in Afghanistan will be directed towards enabling Afghan authorities to take over their security responsibilities. This will allow for a gradual reduction of Norwegian strength contributions in Afghanistan in the period up to 2014. The government’s proposal suggests that by the end of 2012 there will be a balance between budget, tasks and defence capabilities. This provides a very good basis for the next long-term plan, which the government will provide for the Storting to spring. I have today received the Chief of Defense's professional military advice as an important input into this process. Norway is in the forefront of migration in NATO, and our experience is a source of interest in our allies. At the same time, I would like to stress that the security policy landscape around us is demanding. Many of the speeches in this debate have rightly referred to the deep and sustained crisis we are seeing in the world today, not least in our own part of the world. It is in my current role to recall that an economic and social crisis can also develop into a security crisis. This was what happened in the 1930s' Europe. In contrast, we have a set of institutions at European and global level that can help to find common solutions to the crisis. But the solutions do not find themselves, they require political action. We are already seeing that the economic crisis puts established political systems to serious test, including in European countries. Norway is today one of the very few countries in Europe with increasing defence budgets. Many neighbouring countries today choose to cut heavily. At the same time, many people are only now entering into the transformation processes we have already been through. I am afraid the cuts can reduce the collective defence capacity in Europe. There are only two good answers to this: firstly, to work for better and more integrated solutions in the alliance and in the Nordic region, and secondly, to recognise that in an acute situation, we may have to do more of the job ourselves. There is therefore good reason to do exactly what the government has done throughout this period – to ensure predictable framework conditions around the defence and to keep a long-term look at how we get the most defense for each invested crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3392	I am not going to go into a detailed debate on what was presented by the Chief of Defense's professional-military council today, but say a little about the defence in general. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has been the best friend of the Defence Party throughout all years, in terms of budgets and wishes that carry out the defence tasks and personnel in a good way, as opposed to the government budgets, where there has not been enough funding for the defence operations. It is a reality. To take two examples: the first is the presence of the defence in the north – or perhaps a lack of presence – in terms of our marine and Coast Guard boats. Unfortunately, the number of days sailing has fallen sharply in recent years. The second is about our Homeland Security Forces. Here, too, the number of soldiers, districts and real resources for training and equipment has been reduced every year. Then is my question – even if the Council of State was concerned: Is this a situation that the Council of State will continue with, or will he actually bring about an increase – and in case how much?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3405	I have some doubts as to whether it may be possible to vote that the Progress Party is the best friend of the Defence Party, because the Progress Party has been very difficult to get into the basic structural reforms. There has always been a kind of money available for what the Defense would have, but not for actually addressing fundamental and lasting challenges. I believe that we have now succeeded in enabling the defence to increase its operational capability for each year ahead. It's better in 2011 than it was in 2010. It will improve in 2012 and synergies will now emerge. That's why it's sailing more, flying more and practicing more. But that's because we've been able to reduce fundamental imbalances and unnecessary structure and move from base structure to operational capability. I note that the head of defence also today stated that we are in balance with this draft budget after we were 3 billion a few years ago. kr in imbalance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3412	Let me first congratulate Barth Eide on the appointment of the Council of State and say that he, like the Prime Minister, has today been good at giving a presentation of the Defense with a kind of cheer-and-gamma vote. My experience is that at least not everyone who is in the Defence Department every day feels that the map and the terrain are falling apart in these descriptions. To help the new Council of State, I can quote from the last report of the National Auditor: ‘Brigade Nord has not practised in a comprehensive manner in 2010 and does not, in accordance with the army’s own military professional judgement, have combative force at the desired level.’ Further: ‘The audit carried out by the National Audit Office shows that the Maritime Defence Agency did not meet the overall sailing activity targets in 2010. [[...]] The activity was also lower than in 2009. [[...]] The presence of the Coast Guard has been reduced by a decrease in patrol days between 2006 and 2010.’» Who’s Right — Government or National Auditor?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3432	Both of them are right, because what the National Auditor writes here is something that was taken out of the government's own description of the situation for 2010 – not in retrospect, but in advance. We wrote in the then state budget that 2010 would be a tough year, because a lot of money went away in conversion. The synergies we now have are already visible today – more sailing, more flying, more operational capability. So the National Auditor is very strict on the data he's got from us, and we've also been shooting. We said we had to take some unpopular grip at the beginning of the last long period. The defence had to reduce on some types of activity. We added money to balance. But I can say here and now that we have numbers that this already looks much better, and we just now have a big marine exercise – the largest one in a long time – that shows for example. The marine defense's considerable fighting power in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3437	Let me also congratulate the Council of State on coming up. I want to challenge the Council of State on a topic that I raised in my first defence budget post 14 years ago – about women in defense. Frank Brundtland shows in a report that women in the defense end far more than men do, and especially young women. One of the saddest explanations he points to is that they experience backward talking, demeaning attitudes and sexual harassment. We have just had a very serious case in which a brave woman has stood up, and how the command that was responsible has not met any consequences – on the contrary, perhaps rather accepted from the superior for what happened. The result is that women cannot recommend the defence as a future place for other women. Then my simple question is: what will the Council of State do to prevent women from being harassed by the Defense, but that it will be what the Stortinget has set as a goal – a place to be for both women and men?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3448	I'm dividing 100 pst. the views of the representative. The soldier Alice Aspelund experienced has been an unusually serious matter for the defense, and we have been very clear, from both military and political leadership, that this is unacceptable and not as it should be in the defense. I am therefore not familiar with the description that the general term has tolerated this. In addition to me, as the Council of State, the Director-General of the Air Force, the Head of Defence's Operational Headquarters and the Head of Defence have said that this should not be the case. I have, like the inspector general, met the soldier afterwards. We will continue a very important work to facilitate women. There are many things that have been done in terms of equipment and embarrassment. Now the time has come for a strong focus on attitudes and ethics, not least in the male part of the soldier masses and the officers, to facilitate well. This is a challenge. You've come a little bit, but it's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3460	Yesterday I had the pleasure of meeting representatives from the NODE network in South Africa – or rather, NODE Jr., i.e. the youngest employees of the NODE network. NODE has a vision for its food cluster to help the oil and gas industry in the South remain world-leading, regardless of competition. There is a food cluster that has grown in the number of enterprises in very few years, to now 50 enterprises, where the growth in turnover has grown from 5 billion. DKK a few years ago, to be assumed for the current year 45 billion. NOK, which in a very short time has doubled the number of employees, which is now 8 000. It's an adventurous growth that this is a presentation of. It is not ‘undecided’, as Robert Eriksson tries to produce Norwegian business as. There are 10-0 for the NODE network, for Norwegian business and the opportunities there. The growth of one industrial cluster is joyous, and it is one of many examples in Norwegian business life of opportunities in Norway. But the most amazing thing about meeting the young people on whom we are going to build the future is that they have a glowing optimism in them, and they are very clear about the opportunities that lie in that network and in Norway – in stark contrast to what the same age groups in many countries around Europe experience, because of the situation that is very special there. Today I have had the pleasure of meeting the Norwegian industry and Yara. In some ways, Yara is a world wide industrial venture based on Norway. They have now decided to invest several hundred million kroner in their industrial production in Norway and the Netherlands. They don't because they don't believe in Norway. They do, because they believe in Norway as the producer, as well as in the continuation. Although there are some challenges, they believe in Norway. They're optimistic, and we should be, in the first place, too. What amazes me in this debate is when perhaps especially the Right chooses to describe Norwegian business. Then it becomes a little strange to me. It is this way, in my ears at least, that when the representative Sanner describes Norwegian business, he describes Norwegian business in a completely different way from the way Norwegian business describes itself. And then I have to choose. Who am I supposed to believe? Should I believe in the representative, Sanner, or should I believe in Norwegian business? Yes, my assessments make it very simple: I believe in Norwegian business. It's a lot of optimism, it's a lot of joy, and Norwegian business is not one homogeneous group. Of course, some have bigger challenges than others, but very much goes very well. It'll be a bit like the debate on export finance. If it had been up to the critical voices in the opposition, we would have been exempt from the capital adequacy directive if it had been possible, if it had been the ones who had run the country. Now we get a new system, a state system, which I think will initially be placed as the world's best export finance offer, if we want. There are at least a few places in the world that can provide better guarantees for lending than having the Norwegian state in its back. Then, of course, there's reason to follow the situation very closely. Our biggest export market is Europe, and the situation in Europe is, of course, challenging. We must therefore follow the situation very closely, not least given that we are extremely vulnerable because, as I said, our main export market is Europe. I would then like to stress that the budget is very important. I believe from what we know today, that it is a well-adapted budget for what we are going to go into in the future. But as important for business as the budget is to have the security that the country is governed by a government that follows the situation closely, and that has the power and the majority of the Storting to put in place the right measures at the right time, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3481	The government boasts in its draft government budget of its measures on immigration and integration, and I'm going to be fair – there may actually be something to boast about in the document. It is positive in some areas, and in those areas the government is well on the way to meeting the proposals and solutions of the Progress Party. Norway has a policy of immigration and integration that poses challenges. These are the challenges we have to take seriously. It is regrettable that we have a government that does not see the link between immigration policy and integration policy. These are two policies that affect each other, and should therefore, in the view of the Progress Party, be grouped together in a separate department, thereby ensuring better political control in these areas, not least in order to better understand the link between immigration and the challenges we face in integration. Integration has its challenges where the unemployment rate among some groups of immigrants is high. Although the government boasts that it has become lower overall, there are, as said, challenges within certain groups. That's the challenge we have to take. We appreciate the fact that unemployment has fallen overall, but in those groups that really have high unemployment, it is high. These are the challenges we have to take seriously. We have to look at why it's higher, what we can do to solve this, and whether it's the ability or the will that makes some things work. It is also the case that some of those coming to Norway do not cooperate with the Norwegian authorities. They come either under false identity or with hidden identity. Here I also want to brag a little bit of the government. Through Prop. 138 L for 2010–2011 they are approaching the Progress Party. But I wonder: why can’t the government take the step fully and say that now we should have closed receptions, so that we get this under better control, so that we can control those who come to Norway – and that we might send them out again as quickly as possible when they are not willing to cooperate with Norwegian authorities? If you come under a fake ID or with a hidden ID, you actually break the law initially and should therefore be locked in. The UDI has done a part with regard to its duration of proceedings, and it is positive. Whether it's the government's profit, or whether there's a good management in the UDI, I shouldn't say anything about it. But during my visit to the UDI, I clearly got the impression that we have a management in the UDI who takes his job seriously. They have gone into and looked at the treatment period, and they have taken a lot of action to get it down, and it does not go beyond the quality of the work they do. What they have done is to look at the length of time spent on matters – that is, how long a case lies without anyone taking part in it – and by doing so, they have been able to do a good job and have the time to deal with them, which means that those who are in receipt can get out to municipalities or be returned to their country of origin. With regard to the return of asylum seekers who have not been allowed to stay, the Progress Party wishes to go to work much harder than the government does. We want to increase resources in this area, so that those who have been rejected come back to their country of origin as soon as possible and do not burden Norwegian taxpayers. Then there's an area I'm also positive about, that the government is increasing the integration grant somewhat. But I also have a little divided opinions right around that area, because it is positive that municipalities should not be charged with the extra cost they have of receiving refugees. That it's an extra expense, there's no doubt about it. They will be covered by the costs they have for their health, and they will be covered by the costs they have for their extra schooling. So they're going to have to cover the extra costs they have. It is important that those who come to this country are well integrated, come into society, get school, get education, get a job, so that they become part of and can contribute to the Norwegian community. Then what I ask myself questions about this is that in some municipalities it turns out that after the introduction period is over, and a few years have passed, there is still a high unemployment rate in some immigrant groups. At the same time, individual municipalities have managed to build up an integration fund. So they have a surplus of the integration grant that they can contribute to a fund. It is a challenge and a problem that the government has to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3501	Today we have repeatedly had two background images painted in the red-green articles. The first is a description of how troubled and difficult the economic situation is in Europe and the United States, and how lucky we are that we have had a red-green government in Norway. Honestly, you don't have to be an atomic physicist to see through this lightweight strategy. Well, we got through the financial crisis and are better equipped than most of the others to meet the uncertain times ahead of us, but it is due to a unique national economic situation based on oil revenues and funds, no debt and high activity levels, among other things. in petroleum-related industries. Yes, we're doing well, but with completely different assumptions from other countries, there's hardly any great achievement. Other countries have had only one option: to stimulate growth without bridging business with high tax pressures. Today's second scare picture from the red-greens is how bad it will be with the country if we get a bourgeois government. The Chairman of the Financial Committee struck the tone, and the reputation of arrogant and self-sufficient self-esteem is to be sought for a long time. Luckily, I don't think this is suitable for impressing anyone outside a red-green community, which, as you know, is getting smaller and smaller. What has been a continuous description is the danger of more privatisation and tax relief. Even with tax laws for most people and businesses, this is certainly a scare picture that you think carries through. But no, it doesn't, and it's wrong. The right-hand budget provides for the security of well-being by focusing on knowledge and competitiveness, by investing in youth, by investing in research, by investing in business and better and safer roads. Well-being is not just the state – it is a red-green error. Well-being is deeply concerned with enabling enterprises to run a healthy and good business that can generate returns, create jobs and provide income to the community. Personal well-being is about having a good and varied service provision and – important – the ability to make your own choices. When the red-greens stand here and spend on the harmful tax havens, they cannot have taken any particular interest in what is in the Right's alternative budget for knowledge and competitiveness. That's the minimum deduction, that's the top tax rate, that's the inheritance tax, that's a tenth of a percent on the property tax, and that's improving the depreciation basis to secure the jobs that make up these taxes. The most striking thing from this government is the lack of willingness to modernise and to choose smart and new solutions. The rest of society is constantly renewing. Within my field of work, the transport sector, the government ensures complete stamina. Right will do something about this. We are giving priority to innovation. We have presented a transport plan with 23 measures, all of which are about to be renewed and modernised. We have put forward a collective plan that addresses the enormous challenges, especially the four major cities facing us. Here are a number of good measures that are described in our budget option, but unfortunately the government parties oppose it. We have presented a road safety strategy, which is also a key priority in our transport budget. The government is running ‘same procedure as every year’, except that until next year they are cutting off the reward scheme that Bondevik II set up. In the government budget for next year, Right will grant 1 billion. kr extra. We give priority to road safety, both highways and county roads. We are launching three major OPS projects, projects that have been waiting too long for a clear signal from this government. We're setting up a 50-billion maintenance fund. NOK to take again the huge aftermath that has built up over many years. For 2012, the government grants 700 million. kr for maintenance fall. Our fund would give a return of 2 billion. In addition, kr. We are launching two new reward schemes, one for intermodal solutions at the hub and one for bicycle action in cities, plus a series of measures to modernise a sector that is screaming for renewal. Yes, impatience is so great that it goes far into the government parties. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible that after six years with this government, we do not see a single renewal measure, with the exception of a few budget cuts on some road sections. The leader of the centre party, who is also a member of the government, openly criticises this renewal refusal in the media. Former Labour Party Councils have stated that today's transport policy has expired. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3533	There is a good budget to be adopted here today, a budget that takes account both of the turbulent economic situation in Europe and of ensuring well-being. The budget is below 4 pst. track, as it should be when it goes well. So we have the ability to spend more money in bad times. Three years have passed since the international financial crisis hit. Financial markets almost stopped functioning, and the world economy experienced the strongest setback since the Second World War. We were able to dampen the fall in Norway because we met it with action, with massive measures – rightly aligned, correctly quantified and timely. Unfortunately the financial crisis is not over, but it has changed rating. Now the world around us again is marked by great economic uncertainty. Unemployment has fallen to a startling high level in Europe, particularly among young people. Many countries have large budget deficits and a sharp increase in public debt. Some countries have believed that welfare services can be provided at the level of the Nordic countries and at the level of the US. This is impossible. Financial crisis frames common people. I understand that it must be unfair and frustrating when a person experiences a large cut in the welfare and reduction of wages, a high unemployment rate among young people, and at the same time they see that the financial industry is taking out large wages and bonuses. Here we see a growth in the Norwegian economy, although growth rates are downgraded as a result of the international crisis. Nevertheless, we have had 300 000 additional jobs since 2005. Two thirds of them are in private companies. Only listening here: Value creation has now increased by seven quarters in a row, and last year the employment has increased by 50,000. Never before have there been so many jobs in this country. This is very good for us, but we mustn't have a blink of faith that Norway can't be affected by this crisis. Norway has an open economy, and much of our exports go to Europe. We have to control the use of money at home so we don't have to push the interest rate and the exchange rate. Economic policy for the future is extremely important. For us in the Working Party, this is about creating more and distributing more. The right answer in business policy is, as in all other contexts, tax cuts. Among other things, they cut the property tax by 3 billion. kr. But I want to ask questions about the soundness of Right's industrial policy. Agriculture, which is a major and important industry in Norway, is expected to cut by a total of EUR 1.7 billion. kr — a fairly large number, you ask me. Regional development funds shall cut by 500 million. kr. And the net paycheck for seafarers is also going to cut by 500 million. kr. All of this will put workplaces at risk. Norway is one of the foremost in the world in the maritime sector. In order to continue to have that position, the industry must have conditions in line with other countries, at least in Europe, otherwise the competitiveness of the maritime sector will be very weak. There is a failure in the logic of the Right when they talk so much about weak competitiveness but are still willing to directly weaken a sector. It's possible we don't impress the right representatives, but the NHO director is at least very enthusiastic about our commitment to simplification. When we removed the audit obligation for small companies in winter, he stated that these were the simplification measures of the times. Now we're going to do new historical cut in Norwegian business its administrative costs. The government has promised to reduce its corporate burdens by 10 billion. kr before the end of 2015. I will also mention the share capital requirement, which is reduced to NOK 30000, and not least electronic reporting. There's simply more time to create. The budget also has a strong commitment to innovation and innovation. My name is Investinor, who's added 1.5 billion. kr in additional capital, entrepreneurship, user-driven innovation and, in particular, climate technologies – green innovations, which are one of the most important for the future, and on which we need to invest. I am pleased that today we are adopting a budget that provides for order in the economy, so that we have a defence against crises that come from outside – simply safe economic governance, not creative solutions that put Norwegian workplaces at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3559	The Norwegian state is an extremely rich state. We have a capital base that most other countries envy us. We have an oil fund of well over 3,000 billion. kr. If one were to distribute it to all the inhabitants, from the youngest to the oldest, it would amount to NOK 650,000 per Norwegian. In addition, more money is constantly being transferred to the oil fund. This state budget is made up of a surplus of 345.7 billion. kr. That's about. 6 B.C.E. kr more than the estimate of the 2011 accounting. That means that for every session that goes, it's transferred approximately. Forty million. kr to the oil fund. Since this debate started here at 9 p.m. So 10 today, it's transferred 400 million. kr to the oil fund. So, although not all investments have been as good, everything suggests that the oil fund will also grow in the future. When one has such a great, good and national state wealth, one might think that most of the problems in the country were solved. But it's not like that. If you travel around the country to the municipalities and talk to local politicians and local spokesmen and advisers, you get a description of a daily fight to get the money to stretch. It's a daily struggle to fund the services that the inhabitants are entitled to. When we look at this state budget, there is nothing to suggest that the job around the 430 municipalities – 429 from 1 January 2012 – will be easier. So there's less revenue growth in this budget than what was announced in the municipal bill. It is also a monthly uncertainty when it comes to the financing system of the Cooperation Reform. There are also continuations of an unsocial kindergarten policy, where there is a great difference between financing private kindergartens and public kindergartens. Nor does the government tighten up asylum policy, which has consequences for municipalities. Thus, everything suggests that pension costs and the level of debt in municipalities will continue to grow significantly in 2012. There are also warnings from several users. KS indicates that this budget is missing 800 million. kr to the municipalities for a pure continuation of today's service provision. So it's almost 1 billion. kr less than what is needed to continue the service provision of the day. If we add to the promises of the red-green politicians, among other things. have gone around and given in the election campaign, the municipalities lack many billions to meet those promises. This gap has many reasons. Among other things, there is an increase in population growth, which is quite significant. We have an ageing population, which means that services are becoming more and more extensive in the municipality of Norway. A number of tasks that are transferred to municipalities, as well as increasing demands, both from the central government and from the residents, make it more expensive to provide services in municipalities. Then there is also an increase in pension costs in the municipal sector, which is a significant cost in the future. The implications of this draft budget mean less local freedom of action. The party of progress has taken note of this. That's why we have in our alternate state budget plus 3 billion. to care for the elderly, to the ground school, to municipal child protection, to municipal care for the elderly and to psychiatry. Included in that sum is also 250 million. kr to increase in the apprentice incentive. And then we have a plus 800 million. kr to resource-requiring services in addition to that proposed by the Government Party. It's a little bit better than the government's proposal. It may not be enough, but it's better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3578	I would quote from the Ministry of Labour's budget proposal, page 29, line three, four and five. It says: ‘In 2003 the cyclical balance was reached. From 2004 onwards, labour market developments were again more positive, and more came to work.’ I stunned a little when I read those years. I actually had to double check that it was right, because based on the debate here today, it happened very little positive before 2005. In fact, most of what is good with Norway came after 2005, and after the red-green government took over. Not on one point during the debate today have I heard someone say what the Ministry of Labour here writes, namely that the increase in employment started when the Right last sat in government and turned down to rise. Now we're left with a very difficult period. Our competitiveness is weakened, we are spending too little on knowledge and research, and we are not investing enough in the future. What should worry us is that we haven't used the good years to address some of the really big challenges Norway is facing. Although we have a low unemployment rate in Norway, there are increasing numbers of people who fall out of work, and exclusion is increasing. The fact that more people fall out of the labour market in bad times is understandable. But our big challenge is that many of them stay outside. Also this year, for example, the share of health-related benefits is increasing. The increase is greater than population developments should be expected. While the Norwegian economy continues – although it is turbulent around us – it is still doing well, so outside Norway is increasing. What worries us the most – and I think that applies to politicians in all parties, almost – is that especially many young people fall out of the labour market or never come in. Since 1995 and up to now, there has been almost a doubling of young people aged between 18 and 24, and this increase has also occurred in periods of good times in the Norwegian economy. Since 2008, the number of young social clients has also increased — again — and continued to increase, even after the previous financial crisis had subsided. The problem is, of course, that while the unemployed — including the young unemployed — come back to work, we know that many young Nav users never come back to work. They are already being depreciated at an early age. The evening post recently interviewed a young, newly educated woman who was told by Nav that disability benefit would be best for her. She had a lung disease that made her unable to work full-time in the industry she had witnessed, but she wanted to help re-schooling in order to work part-time. According to the Evening Post, she did not. The message was that she had too much education from before. I think most people who work with the Nav system and Nav users have also talked to people who say from a young age that they felt that the only offer the system could give them was disability pension, disability benefit. Many young people are looking for Nav to help them get to work. Instead, they end up on disability. Of course, some young people will be unable to work, but many will be given up by the system. Too many people are told that because they are ill for one period, they can never come back to work, and it is pointless with all respect. There's something wrong with a system that works that way. For how can we say that someone who has had a mental illness when she is 23 years old, also guaranteed to be unable to work when she is 43 years old? We can't. Some of this is going to be improved with a new failure message, but not all. This is why the right has a solution, and it is to bet massively on labour training in the workplace. We need to use more of our resources to pay people for activity and work training and less money to pay people for inactivity and to stand out from work. The right-hand side spends 400 million dollars. kr extra – i.e. more than the government – for work training in the workplace. If you compare the government's budget to our budget, there are thousands of extra people, especially young people, who would have a new chance of entering the labour market with the Right Policy. Unfortunately, they do not have that chance with the government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3597	The crisis in some European countries is taking place, among other things: on countries that have borrowed and used too much money and are now unable to service their debt. This is about the lack of responsible economic governance and the lack of willingness for necessary reforms in time. The countries that are now struggling, such as Italy and Greece, have not been able to manage to get out of the financial crisis on their feet. This goes beyond ordinary people, as we see in the news of people who lose their jobs and are thrown out of their homes, without safety nets, of young people who have lost hope and confidence in the future, with great social unrest as a result. The euro crisis puts financial markets and the economy under pressure, but it is even more serious that the crisis is also putting the democratic institutions under pressure. The confidence of the people that politicians can clean up is gone. In Greece and Italy, technocrats have now been deployed as new prime ministers. None of them have made elections or positions in political parties. This is the most serious thing in the crisis. Norway has managed well through the financial crisis, and we are doing well now despite the debt and unemployment crisis in the world. Many point to our large revenues from oil and gas and the pension fund as the reason for this. Let there be no doubt that the pension fund is important and gives us a room for action that there is reason to envy us. It enabled us to launch offensive countermeasures during the financial crisis. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is no revenue from oil and gas alone that makes us do so well. No, it's deliberate political governance, conscious political choices, that's behind it. The right-hand side says every year – very predictable – that there are gray and boring budgets presented by the government, without profile and priorities and without reform. That's wrong. It is clear that they have not spent time in the budget. Several new reforms have been adopted, several long-term plans within, inter alia: transport and defence, which we are now implementing. Norway's economic growth and welfare society can be a conscious political priority for which, among other things: social partners, where we have facilitated a high level of participation and keeping people at work. We have done that by expanding kindergartens to all those who need them, and setting a maximum price that everyone can pay. We have expanded the parental leave, so that both women and men are involved in the work. More than 250 000 new jobs have been created in recent years, most in the private sector. We have implemented a pension reform that facilitates more jobs. And most importantly, we've kept order in our own economy and not used over ability in good times. In addition, we have prioritised expanding and securing the safety net for people who fall out of work or school. Norway has a welfare society that most other countries envy us, but many of us take for granted. We shouldn't do that, because it doesn't matter which parties are in government and govern the country in relation to prioritising the welfare society. The right-hand side and the left-hand side are essentially different. The Labour Party will have a social development with good Community solutions in the public sector in schools, care for the elderly and health and social services, rather than lower taxes and more self-payment, as the Right and Advance Party will. This is underlined in next year's budget and in the proposals for alternative budgets from the Right and the Progressive Party. The Progress Party proposes tax reliefs of over 21 billion. kr, and on the expenditure side, a reduction of 15 billion. kr. The budget option thus represents an increase in the use of oil money of more than 6 billion. Compared to the government's proposal. According to the Progress Party, the use of oil money only increases by 0.9 billion. Compared with the government's proposals, several of the proposals of the Progress Party are unrealistic and are in breach of good budgeting practice. Among other things, the Progress Party suggests that dynamic effects of proposed tax changes result in self-financing equivalent to 5.3 billion. kr, related to a permanent increase in the labour supply. Furthermore, they have taken into account a significant reduction in the cost of disability benefits, sickness benefits and daily allowances, without indicating the restrictions to be applied and budgeting for increased revenue from the sale of state properties of a total of 4 billion. kr, without specifying the properties to be sold. The point of drawing up the proposals of the Progress Party is to learn that the lesson from the situation in Europe is that the most important thing we can do next year is to pursue a responsible economic policy and to keep the economy in order. The Progress Party's alternative budget proposal shows that they have not learned anything. The same applies to the Right, which also prioritizes tax cuts to over 12 billion. Although the international debt crisis shows that this is a wrong policy that most countries are now leaving. I am concerned that the people of Norway should have confidence that politicians can also manage through crises, through a responsible economic policy. That is the opposite Right and the Progress Party adds up to its alternative budgets. They do not have the ability to address the effects of their policies in the current situation, modernise and update their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3616	The class struggle has had several look-ups over the past few weeks focusing on the challenges of the professions. No later than today they report: ‘This year, by new hairdressers in Oslo, only 18 come from public schools. Four years ago the figure was 60.» Two scientists believe that the promise of knowledge has destroyed the professions. I am pleased that the evaluation of the Knowledge promise will be presented to spring, so that we can get a broad and qualified review of, among other things. the professions. At the same time, I believe that all the signals we have received that the device in the professions does not provide the results we want, means that it should already be signalled that after the evaluation we need a separate message to the Stortinget on the professional subjects. This government has taken action in the school since the introduction of the Knowledge promise in 2006, as well as this year. The national tests show that we are on the right track. We are just about to deal with the message about high school, where the goal is to increase motivation, give more sense of master's feeling and thus give more opportunities to succeed in high school. Practical work is one of the steps that an already experienced person has taken through experimentation. These are the mini-professionals that should be able to make students better equipped to move into a professional direction. In addition, from the harvest, we are going to introduce the electoral profession. Choices shall allow for more practical experience and practical opportunities both for professionals and for those who are required to take a particular course of study. For this reason, it is important that the State budget includes appropriations for electoral matters. The right doesn't give priority to a more practical school that fits more, but still has the clock belief that only we get more hours of reading, writing and billing, we're on the right track. A more flexible secondary school with opportunities for several practical subjects has been a key horse for the Centre Party for many years. I am therefore very pleased that we now have an impact on a high school that takes all the students and all the knowledge, including practical craftsmanship, more seriously. Good vocational training is essential in order to gain an apprenticeship and adequate basic skills. After two years, apprentices should have both basic and basic general knowledge of the subject. Being an apprentice means that the enterprise should not be able to count on particularly large value creation on the apprentice in the first year. The second year, on the other hand, the apprentice must have sufficient knowledge to yield returns to the enterprise. Then we have to make sure that the training is so good that it provides opportunities for it. Therefore, the provision of apprenticeships depends both on the competence of those students who have attended school who can be expected when applying for a apprenticeship, but also on the competitive situation in which they perceive that they have enough capacity, profits and opportunities to take care of an apprentice two years in advance. Here, too, enterprises should, of course, take account of their future labour needs. So how we dispose of our economy has a bearing not only on business opportunities in competition with others, but also on business opportunities to help train new future professionals. This applies to both public and private business. The centre party has been a front fighter to increase the status of the practical subjects, to practical knowledge and to practical work for many, many years. Yes, in fact, it was my mother who also worked with her when she was on the Kuf Committee a few years ago – including. by winning the battle for technical vocational schools. We are pleased that several people also want to take ownership of this matter. The more we are, the easier it is to get it. Practical subjects are not just about wasting time on more or less creative electives in high school – such as production for hall or stage, running with moped shop, snow or sole away time on practical-esthetic cosy subjects, such as designing by drawing or sewing. This is about recognising that professional and crafts are subjects, that practical and aesthetic subjects are about having professionals in the future, such as: shall design technological products or contribute to the continuation of our culture. It is about having professionals to assemble or assemble future wind turbines, or to install and build power plants, tunnels and turbines. There will be no transition to a renewable and more environmentally friendly future without both having professionals who are good at developing new technologies and professionals who are good at building or installing what is being developed. This relationship we in the Center Party are concerned with getting more people to understand. That is why we are once again talking about the practical subjects. The future needs skilled workers, and it is important that both pupils, parents and education policy-makers see the importance of the professions. That's why we're doing something about high school, because that's where they're going to choose upper secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3637	Norwegian aid and development policies have long been marked by genius and naivety. The amount of assistance and the fact that Norway is the best in the class have been the most important. The quality of the assistance, however – if it appears, if it works as intended – is something that few people care about. Whether our aid money disappears in corruption or ends up in the pockets of dictators, it doesn't seem to worry a lot either. It has been claimed by many, including from this interlocutors, that the prevention and combating of corruption in aid should be of the highest priority. In practice, unfortunately, this has only proved to be a celebration speech. In January, the Riksrevision presented a report which included a framework criticism of poor performance orientation in assistance, and which showed major weaknesses in planning, monitoring and prevention of corruption. The report, which is now for treatment here in the house, however, we will come back to a later meeting. In the evening post on Saturday 29 October, an aid scandal with Norwegian money has been mentioned, which has developed in Tanzania without the intervention of the Norwegian authorities in particular. According to the newspaper, as much as 150 million will be required. NOK 300 million of the total cost. until a development programme has disappeared in corruption. What do the Norwegian authorities do with this? Yes, you can finally get a refund of NOK 750,000 – NOK 750,000 out of SEK 300 million. kr! As if this were not enough, the Norwegian government promises new fresh 500 million. NOK to this corrupt country, while negotiating a refund of NOK 750 000. The naivety obviously knows no boundaries in Norwegian aid policy. Tuesday this week, the Riksrevision delivered the annual report on audit and control for the year before, the so-called Document 1. The National Audit Office has once again demonstrated weaknesses and deficiencies in the management, follow-up and control of aid funds, this time in Afghanistan. It is also established that the established follow-up mechanisms are not sufficient to ensure that Norwegian funds are used on the basis of assumptions. This is unsustainable. In our view, the goal of Norwegian development and assistance policy must be to ensure that developing countries can survive in the long term without transfers from the West. The development policy of the Progress Party aims to lift people out of poverty and create a basis for growth and development by building up customs and trade barriers, eradicating illegitimate debt and ensuring ownership of the wider population. We will further focus on health and education, channel assistance through non-governmental organisations and global funds, strengthen emergency and disaster relief, and focus on assistance for structural measures promoting democracy, the rule of law and the market economy. We also believe that all measures and projects supported by Norway should, without exception, be subject to thorough evaluation, performance measurement and accounting control. A number of international studies have shown that assistance in general has not contributed to economic growth in developing countries. There is also every reason to believe that in many cases assistance has contributed to weakening the contract between politicians and citizens in the beneficiary countries, to increase corruption, and to keeping authoritarian and totalitarian heads of state in power. It is therefore high time that traditional assistance was converted into a much greater focus on investment in business. Over several years, we have called for a greater proportion of our assistance to be channelled through funds that aim to create a viable business life by investing in different businesses. Here we can also draw far more than we have today on the skills we have in Norwegian business, which we have seen working well through Norfund. Our Danish neighbours made such a transformation of their aid policy several years ago, and I have seen positive results from this both in Vietnam and Malawi. It is in this way that we can best contribute both to economic growth and to the development of wealth, so that we can achieve the objective we all have that developing countries will be able to cope with themselves and stand on their own economic footings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3654	The right-hand governance principle in the preparation of our alternative budget for 2012 has been ‘Safety through knowledge and competitiveness’. The right is committed to ensuring jobs in the competitive sector, and we want to give priority to the content of the school and to double the efforts to train teachers. We're paying hundreds of millions of dollars to make people feel more secure in their communities by increasing the number of police officers in all of Norway. In the budget we will also this year give priority to removing the inheritance tax. Houses and cabins are often expensive to take over for very many heirs because the market value has become high and the equation value has become high. This, in turn, has led to the fact that a lot of people have to sell the properties rather than take them over. Small businesses and family businesses have received a higher inheritance tax bill from the government. You also get rid of a bureaucracy that, for the state, costs $50 million. kr per year. In this year's budget, the right removes VAT on e-books, simply because the Minister of Culture has not been able to convince the Minister of Finance to equate the books of the future with the old books. We have cultural and language policy arguments for it, and international competition shows that Norwegian books actually need to be exempted from VAT. The right budget also shows a direction from a party that wants something, which has a political project, and is capable of prioritizing, which is less focused on state bureaucracy and manages to provide cutbacks, as opposed to the government. The board Vegar Solhjell says to the evening post: «We later like every crown is used perfectly.» Nobody wants to cut, everyone fits on their own and to become popular in their own department. Should political success be measured by avoiding cuts in the department? Unfortunately, the government has no new ideas, neither in transport nor in public sector governance, and there is an increase in red tape. Do you have control over your own departments? There's a bit of evidence. There is a cause for concern when, in a report by the Directorate for Administration and ICT, they have less time than before to do the job they are employed to do, but instead they are used as part of the government’s various party policy projects. We have recorded a large increase in taxpayers-funded communications positions in the departments — and the Stortinget, in other words — and it is therefore not acceptable for the government to use the regular manning for regular information work. This is really about the good management of the departments, and I have a certain impression that the red-green government councils are more concerned with increasing their budgets and the number of posts around themselves than with allocating resources to the benefit of society as a whole. I don't think the red-greens are so very busy driving more efficiently. Almost every state council meets any criticism from the opposition that they have granted so and so much more than the previous government. If we go back six years in time from any government that has been sitting, all governments, regardless of the party color, will have allocated more money in almost all areas than the government that has been sitting six years before. That argument is getting very old. I think it's quite revealing and shows that you don't like political ideas, but a burning desire to increase all budgets in all directions at once. I understand that Solhjell was frustrated, but he has not tried to improve it either before, along the way or afterwards, as parliamentary leader of SV. The right-wing opinion is that this is due to a lack of interest and focus. For this reason, departments, directorates and supervisors are given an increase in the number of posts based on what they think is absolutely necessary. For the red-greens have not been involved in politics to say no to anything, so they say yes to most and allow bureaucracy to rule with its own. We therefore need whole-minded politicians in all parties who tolerate taking a fight when the cuts come, and I sincerely believe that there are more of these on the bourgeois side than on the red-green side. Solohjell goes on to say to the Evening Post that every cut is a scandal that has to be fought down, and that there is a ritual budgetary process in which the Minister of Finance asks for cutbacks, and where the departments come up with the worst suggestions they can make, so that the papers are so big and ugly that the Minister of Finance says OK at the end. However, when the Minister of Finance shows that the year’s budget is not as tight as the impression has been given, it seems that this is one of the points – a rigid government agency that becomes a clog in the system, politicians who are unable to cut through. Then it might develop a culture where they become defenders of the system and not the ability to produce new and creative solutions. The ironic thing, which is often common around Europe, is that socialists have become stick conservative defenders of the system, or as Martin Kolberg might have said: the system, the system, the system. The macroeconomic figures show that there have been fewer employees in the private sector after the financial crisis. They also show that Norway is slowing down in terms of productivity, that is, making Norway able to compete with our trading partners on the world market despite the fact that we have good wages, which we still need, and good pension schemes, which we still need. The head of the Finance Committee did not believe in the Right Numbers today, even though the Minister of Finance has written it quite crystal clear to him. On page 107 of the national budget: ‘From 2000 to 2005, productivity growth was high throughout the economy while employment remained almost stable. Value added per hour worked increased by 2.9 pst. annual in mainland Norway. In industry, productivity growth was even higher. An hour in 2005 gave a value creation in industry that was about a quarter higher than in 2000. Productivity growth was significantly higher than that of our trading partners during this period.» So this was in the Bondevik II period. Then it's Stoltenberg II. ‘In the period 2006-2009’, the Minister of Finance writes honestly and concisely, ‘the growth of productivity has fallen back into a large part of business.’ The value of one hour in industry was the same in 2009 as in 2005. And I would like to stress that it is in times of decline that productivity is increasing, because then it becomes a more creative one, and people still manage to sell in their markets. In addition, it says: ‘In 2010, the productivity growth in the mainland economy was 1.5 pst. However, this remains clearly lower than the average over the last 10 years.» Whether you use the figures from 2005 or 2006, at the end of 2009 or 2010. For next year, we know that a low interest rate will further increase the pressure on the dollar rate. The government is presenting a government budget that shows a 4 p.m. wage growth, which is a guide for all municipal politicians and state politicians who are now making their budgets, and blowing up expectations of a very good pay balance and very low interest rates. It's good for someone, but the right knows that there's a competitive industry that's losing. We also know that when competitive industry loses, the whole community loses. In addition, when we have the strange wealth tax, which has to be paid regardless of whether the company is doing well or not, at least it shows that this government does not give anything free to Norwegian business to improve productivity. The Prime Minister stated in his statement – and I think that was quite strange – that dynamic fiscal policy is dead. It's hardly to believe. We in the Right are right enough very careful to balance our budgets with increased income from tax relief, but thus saying that it is dead, is simply misleading. For: Decreasing tax relief is dynamic tax policy. Taxes that motivate work rather than make it more lucrative to be on social security have a dynamic effect. Tax payables that allow locked-in capital to be used for new activities and new jobs have a dynamic effect. The Prime Minister seems to believe that we in the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party or the Left, who like to have a certain faith in it, finance it with crowns for crowns. The Minister of Finance's own department shows that for some tax reliefs up to 25 pst. used, for others lower. But no one in the Ministry of Finance is now saying what the Prime Minister said, namely that the dynamic tax policy is dead. Because there are clearly identified effects, and the department also writes that in the future, it will be necessary to look at how dynamic effects can affect the tax models used by the department. In the Right Tax Code, we have reliefs of over 12 billion. kr. We've added 300 million. kr in a dynamic tax effect of it. In addition to that, to be more careful, we have approx. 250 million. kr less in money use than the government. So we show that we're not actually using the money for other purposes, but we're signaling a direction and that the department has to use better models. I think the debate on the current budget has been fairly straightforward. I hope someone who's going to take a line on me repeats their arguments, so we get a further discussion that Right as if they've been talking down Norway in this state budget. I'm glad to have that refuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3714	The representative will have the joy because there are at least three pieces that have signed up for the replacement cord.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3717	I just have to repeat to the representative Kambe that the value creation has now increased by seven quarters in a row, and last year the employment has increased by 50,000. There have never been as many people in work as there are now. It is important that the representative brings it with him. It's very good, but we still have to have an active business policy to look forward to. Norway is a large shipping nation, which has made Norway world-leaving before maritime technology. In order to maintain the weight, the government has invested in maritime policy, among other things. with a level playing field, such as rail taxes and net wages – something right will cut by 500 million. kr. How can the representative Kambe, who even comes from Haugesund, where there is a large maritime cluster that is actually very strong, help to weaken that sector to such an extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3724	The working party has been cutting so much in the net pay system for three consecutive years that it is no longer called the net pay scheme, but the reimbursement scheme. The right is also involved in the cut that the Workers' Party is proposing, to cut something more, but we still grant far over 1 billion. kr in the net pay scheme in Norway. Then there are other things that matter for Norwegian seafarers to go to work on Norwegian ships. This applies, inter alia, to: the framework conditions and taxes on wealth. Most of the companies that have not yet gone on the stock exchange are family-run enterprises, where inheritance taxes and property taxes are very damaging for the generational shifts. Many of these companies, which are going badly today, still pay taxes on wealth, despite their large deficits. It is not a good policy for Norwegian seafarers. I think the Right has a much more comprehensive policy, which takes care of the owners and the maritime education, but also takes care of Norwegian seafarers. So the right has a very good maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3731	The representative Kambe said earlier today that when one had been on the Stortinget for a long time, one did not answer questions that were asked in a reply. Now the representative Kambe has only been here for two years, so I expect a very brief and clear answer to the next question. The right proposes significant cuts – we have just heard – in the net pay system, but they also propose significant cuts in their alternative budgets, including. at work. The party says this is going to happen every year for a four-year period. My question, which I expect a short and concise answer to, is, why does he earn $3 million? kr or more, 16 times larger tax cuts than the one that earns little?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3738	For the right, it is important to give tax relief to all people in Norway, regardless of what they serve. In terms of the tax deduction — the minimum deduction — it is the same for all people. We believe that the highest tax in Norway today will be paid by those who really make a lot of money. The Labour Party proposes in this budget that no one should pay the top tax before NOK 490000 – we only increase it to NOK 500000. We reduce the value of the equation for all people, including minimum pensioners who have low incomes, or others who have low incomes, or who have inherited housing, who then do not pay property taxes, which is an artificial calculation regardless of what else they have in income. We believe it is important for a very large number of people, especially those who have either a reduced position, or who have problems getting into work, and it will be easier for those who are going to create the businesses of the future. This is one of the main criticisms from the Right against this government's policy, ignoring the needs of the competitive industry, and making many of those who should have a job may not be able to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3745	Would the representative Opheim like a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3748	Yes, please. I'll repeat the question. I'm just going to make the introduction a lot shorter, so maybe you could try to answer it one more time. Why does the person who makes more than three million make a living? 16 times less tax than the one who earns little?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3754	This has nothing to do with the words ‘justice’ and ‘deserving’ and such things. It's a social-democratic construction. This is about what might be going on. People who have a salary of 3 million. kr – there are very few people who have it – like on top of owning shares, where they spend their own money to take risks helping companies that need capital to invest in the future. Some of this gets them as dividends, and so they'll get a good income. Some have also invested in their own companies, and it's actually a point for the Right to encourage more people to do that, that more people spend their savings on buying shares in Norwegian companies, that more people start their own businesses, or leave it alone, and thus get to keep some. It is the incentive for people to start small and medium-sized enterprises to have and is different from the approach taken by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3759	The representative Kambe is bold, and I appreciate it. The representative also has several good points. on bureaucracy, which I very much appreciate. But that impression one's left with is pretty strong: we who represent the red-green are not so much thesis. It's okay to bring with it, but it might have some shades, and it might be a recommendation for later. The classic of Kambe is the peculiar wealth tax, introduced in 1881 against the wishes of the capitalists, for they wanted property tax instead. It was better for them – financial assets are not taxed on property. My question is: Which country has less property tax than Norway – Right is talking so much about the strange wealth tax, and it is strange – and when does Right take this forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3768	Of course, when the Right uses the overall level of taxation, taxes and costs to criticise the red-green policy, it has something to do with the property tax, which is peculiar. Real estate tax is not strange, it is very many others who have, especially those who have removed the property tax. Since Lundtigen takes this up: Lundtigen can see in the Right Alternative State Budget that you remove it, as opposed to what the Center Party manages. We are able to reduce the wealth tax by several billion dollars, which also benefits his constituents in the countryside and in the countryside. We increase the depreciation for a very large number of traders who have to invest in machinery parks and equipment, which also benefits the farmers. We have no reduction in property taxes in our alternative state budget, that's absolutely correct. We have prioritised inheritance taxes, property taxes and personal taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3773	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3776	There has, for good reason, been a strong focus on unemployment in this debate. Making sure that the time off is the lowest possible, has been, and is, very important to us red-green – not only in times of crisis, but all the time. In this lies the recognition that unemployment has so many negative aspects, and through experience we know that the longer people are away from work, the harder it is to get back. Therefore, it is very worrying to see what is happening in many other countries. There the unemployment rate has now stuck to a very high level. We don't have to look further than Sweden. Going further south in Europe, more people now say that there is a danger that a whole generation may disappear from the labour market. At the same time, we see negative and destructive thoughts, attitudes and reaction patterns that increasingly dominate the news picture. Many young people are enlisted, and many lack hope for the future. Fortunately, with us, it's different. Of course, we congratulate ourselves on the good results of our policies. At the same time, we know that to continue to have good results in this area, we need to constantly improve the design of the measures, which will make them more targeted. The finance debate doesn't have room for all things, and of course, it's natural that there are the big lines that characterize the posts. However, an issue that has created commitment is that the government has proposed to change payment practices for labour market measures working practices, clarification and permanent organisation of work in the sheltered sector from 1 July next year. There has been good work here from many parties to gain a common understanding of the implications of this proposal. Both the industry itself, i.e. those who offer or sell their services to Nav, and others, agree that it is wrong for Nav to pay for unused spaces in the labour market measures. So there are many people who have thought that the proposal that came from the government was to fix the rear for the blacksmith when it was about whose fault it was that the places were not used, that it was almost said that it was the failure of the action companies. Through the comment that the majority has now written, we believe that we have cleared up these misunderstandings, while pointing out very concretely that we expect all the actors, namely the department, the Nav and the action organiser, to have a good dialogue in the future, so that a common understanding of what needs to be done to improve the use of the sites, while at the same time meeting the needs of the companies for predictability. I want to make it clear that these companies we're talking about here are some great companies. They employ people who need help or clarification to move on in their working life. Many of these enterprises are highly technologically advanced, are engaged in advanced production in fierce competition with others. In particular, enterprises are full of varied competences. These companies know that they will survive, they need to produce goods and services that are of the best quality. That is why there is a lot of innovation both in the production of goods and, not least, in the work of getting people out or back to work. These are also good instruments to ensure that both young and old miscarriages come back to work. This is simply an important instrument in our labour market policy. Another thing there's been a lot of commitment around is the so-called max-min-case. It is a matter for municipalities to choose to print property taxes on works and uses, including power generation plants. In 2001, the authorities set a minimum rule of 0,95 kr per kWh and in 2004 a maximum rule of 2,35 kr per kWh. This implies that even if the value of the power plant exceeds NOK 2,35, no tax shall be paid on that value added. Today we know that the vast majority of power plants are far above this value. The host municipalities, where hydropower is generated and natural interventions are taken, wanted these thresholds to be removed and, in a letter to the ministry, took the initiative to do so. The owners of the power plant have argued against it. There has now been an extensive consultation process in this case. I think everyone sees and understands that these thresholds cannot remain unchanged, because then the host municipalities lose money for every year in real terms. This is entirely contrary to the considerations highlighted at the time of the introduction of the legislation. Therefore, the government has proposed to change these values, and announces that this is happening in two rounds, part to next year and a new part in 2013. At the same time, a rate of capitalisation has been set at a more appropriate level. We have assessed this matter so that we have to weigh the different considerations and find a solution that, in my opinion, is good, but which nevertheless takes into account all the parties involved in the case. In sum, I think we're now on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3808	Coming here five over ten in the evening and talking about family policy, may not be the right time and not so family friendly, but I'm trying anyway. It's been a long day with a long debate about numbers, about who spends the most money and who spends the least, about who rages the economy, and who doesn't. It's usually, as usual, the Progress Party that gets reviewed because the Advance Party spends a little more money than the government does. Then we are accused of ravaging jobs and the Norwegian economy – there is no lack of scare propaganda in this room. Behind all of these figures we're discussing today, we find people in the workplace with their work, we find families that line up on the roads to pay tolls, and we find families that each month labor both with taxes and taxes that affect their everyday lives. When the State budget is presented to the Stortinget, newspapers always interview either core families, lonely or older about how much money they want to spend with today's budget. It's actually important. It's crucial for the everyday life of the families out there how much they're left in their wallet. The family is important. The family is the cornerstone of the policy, also in the policy of the Progress Party. Then it was gratifying to hear the contribution to Hans Olav Syversen, where he told very clearly about the clear differences between the government's family policy and that of the bourgeois parties. For the Progress Party, family policy is the cornerstone of policy. Good values are important, it is important to build up under freedom of choice and not least the flexibility that each family needs. The families are different and have different needs – just like everyone here in this room. It is important that we facilitate good family relationships with freedom of choice and the right to have our own wallet and everyday life. When this government talks about freedom of choice in family policy, it only applies if the family chooses the solutions that the government agrees to. Unlike the government, which is now cutting cash support, the Progress Party wants to maintain today's cash support. The reason is that there must be up to each family how they want to set up their everyday life, whether they want to make use of cash support, or whether they want to make use of kindergarten. This is the freedom of choice that the Progress Party believes families must have. Then we have a recurring debate on the parental quota. It will reverse the Progress Party - the spring quota must go. Families must be allowed to choose for themselves. The government says in its state budget that they're betting on kindergartens. They say it's full kindergarten coverage. But all of us who sit here today know that it's not. Full babysitting is not today because you must be born before 1 September in order to have the right to babysitting. The research team believes that SV in particular has been involved in breaking the kindergarten agreement by not being able to treat private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. Kindergartens is a bet area. We need to put in place greater flexibility, continuous admission, and not least we need to bring about non-discrimination between the private and public kindergartens. It's a little paradoxical that SV is talking about poverty reduction all the time, when they haven't been able to do anything about child welfare. Child protection has not been subject to a financial penalty of 15 to 16 years of age. It's a big shame that we can't make it in one of the world's best countries, when we know that by increasing child welfare, it's part of combating poverty. The Progress Party will provide flexibility for children's families in everyday life. We have faith that the families themselves can make the right choices. We want to give tax breaks, make sure that most people and families are left with something extra in their wallets, which makes their everyday life easier. We'll give them the right to have the arrangements that the government is funding so that they can get the freedom of choice back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3834	I noticed the representative Breen's powerful attack on the Right. He actually used half his post to break out that the Right Black Painting Health Service, and that we want to take money from the Public Health Service and give to the profit-driven, private companies. This, of course, Breen knows that it's not true – and it's far from reality. But it's obvious that when the problems accumulate, and the criticism from the State Health Authority, from the district board in Oslo, trade unions, patient organisations and individual patients become too strong and clear, derailment and attacks on other parties are the best defense. It is alarming that the Workers' Party's new health policy promoter shows so little insight and acts so high and dark and is so little humble about the challenges we see in health every day. It doesn't promise well. The ability and willingness to recognise the problems are, in fact, crucial to solving them. It does the right. The right is that public health services should provide good health and care services when needed. The right’s alternative budget reinforces this objective through measures to reduce health cows and waiting times. We have a good health care system in Norway compared to many other countries. However, despite a formidable increase in the appropriations allocated to the health sector, health cows have increased by about a quarter. 74 000 under the Red-Green Government, according to the Health Directorate. These are not just numbers, but people with different diseases, many very serious. What they have in common is that they need investigations and treatment, and that they have to wait a long time – despite the fact that we know that there is free capacity for the private. The red-greens believe that it is better that patients are in a public health queue than that they are being treated in a private hospital at the state's expense. The strong growth in private health insurance in recent years is a result of increasing health cows and waiting times. Nearly 300,000 Nordics now have health insurance, and according to the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, it has increased by 23pst. last year. Seven out of ten young people want private health insurance. State Secretary Robin Kåss has described health insurance as ‘totally unnecessary’. It shows a government that is in disrepute with the people, and that closes its eyes to the reality that many experience in meeting the health system. It is pointless and disrespectful that patients have to wait for treatment for months and years when they could get help in private clinics where treatment is paid by the public in a short time. Today, health authorities only buy a given amount of private space, which they require to be distributed over the year. In other words, the offer is rational, a rationalisation that the government ordered health care companies to introduce, as they required public capacity to be used before private use. Thus, it became no longer the patient’s health care system, but the health care system’s patients. The combination of long public waiting times, free private capacity and frustration in patients at an uncertain stage means that many now pay out of their own pocket for faster examination and treatment in private hospitals. It's a paradox that it's the red-green government's fight against private offers that makes us see the contours of a real privatisation and a class-based healthcare system, where they can buy quick help with money even if they suspect serious illness, while the others have to put themselves in a public health store. It's a development Right at all not wanting, a development we're strongly opposed to. We see correctly that next year's capacity will expand somewhat in the public sector, but the rationalisation regime is still in place. In our alternative budget, we propose to allocate 330 million. kr for the purchase of services from private operators. This could reduce health cows by about 20 000. It will reduce the burden by waiting for treatment and helping more people to return to work more quickly. Right wants a well and strongly publicly funded health care system, where people get help when they need it. We can achieve that goal if we cooperate with the ideal and private hospitals. They must become partners and not be seen as competitors. If we are to secure a society of well-being that works, we must think again. We must let go of all good forces and give patients and users diversity and freedom of choice. It gives better and faster help. It creates security, and it ensures well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3860	Earlier this fall, I met company managers from the Senja region at a meeting to discuss the state budget – many of them in support of the farming industry. The message I was met with was very clear, as it is usually along the coast: the government has to keep track of the economy, and it has to invest in transportation. These managers come from an industry — the aquaculture industry — which is directly affected by the severe economic crisis in Europe now. Deteriorating market prices and failing sales abroad make the situation unsafe for many businesses and for many coastal jobs. Therefore, the feedback was not to be misunderstood. We have to keep an order of the Norwegian economy. Competitive industries, such as the aquaculture industry, do not tolerate a krone price that comes out of control, do not tolerate an expansionary fiscal policy when we have to hold back. That is why the red-green majority has presented a sober budget, but with clear priorities. It is because we have conducted a responsible employment policy that we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and that we get sixth place on the World Bank's national index. The Solvency Horn of the Advance Party believes that the red-green family and gender equality policies are flawed. But it is because we spend money on welfare goods, such as extended parental leave and full child care coverage, that the Financial Times’ commentator, Simon Kuper, recently wrote that Norway, in addition to oil, has built up its economy by means of another ‘natural resource’, its women. Not only are three-quarters of Norwegian women in work, but they also seem to go from ‘statutical, youthful beauty’ through middle-aged years spent in corporate governance, before entering old age with unashamed good health. The right option is irresponsible taxation, without drawing any lessons from European countries in crisis that have done the same before them. The right-hand option has been to go against any extension of parental leave. The right answer is to talk Norway down. We have put forward a sober budget, but with clear priorities. The other clear message I got from the fish farmers on the outside of Senja was to invest in transportation. If we are to get the fish fastest and freshest possible from the sea outside Senja to a dinner table in France, the roads must be good, affordable and safe. In 2008, the National Racial Protection Group presented a requirement for the country to use 1 billion. kr on racial protection each year. In 2010, we fulfilled it, after a formidable increase. That's why we finally realized racial protection on the way out to the municipality of Torsken, at the extreme of Senja, after the local business community and the population have fought for this for decades. There is only one example of the outcome of the historic red-green road, rail and sea transport. Today, the state road service is trading for 14 billion dollars. kr more in the year than in 2005. We've more than tripled the investments in the railways since we took over, and we've increased the Coastal Agency's budgets by 77 pst. Also in this year's budget, we are stepping up the allocation of transport in accordance with the national transport plan, and we are now the Nordic country that spends the most money on transport. With respect to reporting, when the representative Øyvind Halleraker says that there is ‘complete standstill’ in the transport sector, it suggests that he should get away from Bømlo and see what is actually happening around Norway. The infrastructure effort in the year’s budget shows the red strand of the red-green web: a better-developed road and railway network strengthens competitiveness and provides more well-being. When the upgrading of the railway through Oslo leads to last week that we had an average punctuality of 94 pst, it's welfare policy. That means you reach the job, you reach the kindergarten, and you know when the train goes. There are many in this debate who have said that the Right has not learned from the bitter experiences of many other European countries now. This also applies to Right’s Blind Faith in OPS. The Right, among other things, knows The representative Halleraker, referred to as an example of ‘renewal’, is a policy that is missing from more and more countries in Europe. Right British and Swedish party traps kutter e.g. the use of OPS, because it limits the scope of economic action and reinforces the impact of the financial crisis. So they don't want the Right ‘renewal’. The use of OPS is one of the main reasons why many European countries have now incurred so much debt. In other words, the Right is an incomplete and quite daunting prescription: more of what we see is not working in Europe. It's not renewal, it's just stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3888	The Progress Party is committed to ensuring national sovereignty and a broad alliance building in NATO. We want a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. We believe that this can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks on Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. The Progress Party believes that bilateral strengthening agreements will continue to constitute an important safety and defence policy cornerstone in the future. NATO is the main area of security participation and cooperation. Norway has a lot to learn from the experiences of other allies and can thus ensure the best possible practice in the field of mission solutions. Economic uncertainty in a number of NATO countries results in reduced defence budgets and savings and efficiency requirements. We think it makes sense to look at a wider use of materials, or the lending of materials between NATO countries. This could ensure better use of the material and, in addition, ensure that the crews are provided with the necessary experience to maintain operational performance both nationally and in NATO in general. The development of defence in recent years has been characterised by an overly rapid reorganization. The result has been that the defence as an organisation has been in a constant transition without being able to operate in a normal, predictable way. The Progress Party wants predictability around the Defence Organisation and Development. We see a big gap between the organisation that the government has set up and the organisation that they are actually planning to finance. The Progress Party is concerned about the lack of understanding of the defence under-financing and degradation and believes that a number of measures need to be taken to change these developments. The Progress Party believes that the defence as an organisation is being marginalised, and in this way will not be robust enough to be able to act independently, even in smaller conflicts. The Progress Party is looking forward to major challenges in terms of defence capacity and lack of resources. The army must be strengthened in order to meet the tasks assigned to it. The army’s size must reach a level that ensures continuity in foreign operations while maintaining its presence and activity in Norway. This calls for the army budget to be strengthened in addition to the government's proposals. The numerous maritime defence challenges associated with the phase-in of new ships must be met both economically and organisationally. The maritime defence organisation must be up to a level that ensures the manning of maritime defence vessels and other organisations. Maritime defence activities in Norwegian sea areas need to be increased in order to ensure the protection of Norwegian interests in and around our sea areas. Home protection has been a down priority of the government for several years. The government has closed the HV-016 department, which resulted in a large number of well-trained crews leaving the Home Office. Furthermore, the Progress Party has noted that the effort forces are not set up with the number of crews to be assigned to these forces. This shows that the recruitment has not worked as expected. We want to strengthen the level and size of Homeland Protection, so that Homeland Security can be a real resource in crisis, war and other societal needs. Home protection must be provided with means to ensure the practice and training of their crews. If the exercise level of Homeland Protection is not increased, Homeland Protection will not be able to fulfil its tasks in either crisis or war, nor in support of civil tasks. The Progress Party is committed to strengthening the Coast Guard’s budget so that the presence in our marine areas is strengthened. The Coast Guard is an important resource in monitoring the administrative responsibilities of Norway in the north. Furthermore, the Coast Guard is committed to securing Norwegian interests in these areas. The presence of the Coast Guard is also important for the safety of fishermen and others in these areas. The Progress Party is keenly concerned that Norway should be able to defend itself as far as possible with the widest possible anchoring of the population. We can best ensure this through defence. We are therefore committed to improving the status of the guardians, and that this could stimulate more people to a motivated service in the Defence. There is also a need to stimulate more extensive recruitment of staff for foreign and emergency services. The progress party is occupied by the defence staff. Both military and civilians must be guaranteed predictable working conditions and a predictable human resources policy. The main single factor in defence is the staff, and this group needs to be cared for to a greater extent. The Progress Party also sees the enormous challenges of the imposition of defence on the acquisition of non-operationally funded material. The party of progress fears that this will result in material not being used as intended and that education and service will suffer as a result of these sub-financed projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3918	After all, the local environment is by family and friends the most important community we have in society. It is important that we feel the security of the community and that, under their responsibilities, municipalities can provide high-quality services. So I thought that I would also allow myself a comment, since I see that the Council of Lights is here, that some of the nice things about the close communities that are made up of family, friends and community, is that it is community that manages quite well without departmental dictates or political management or individuals or individual parties that tell how to live one's life. This is also why the Right's position in the municipal structure is that we focus on arrangements and framework conditions that make it easier for municipalities and local communities to set their own priorities within the national framework, but where the centralist red-green government wants to override, we will listen to local democracy. So, of course, it has to have money to work for. On the right, the same growth is proposed for the municipal sector as for the government. We want this to be followed up with greater local freedom, as I said, so that real local priorities can be achieved. The municipality structure for 2012 provides a red-green income system for the municipal sector, which was introduced in 2009. When the income system was examined, the Right took several initiatives to ensure broad political consensus, making it robust against changes, so that it was also predictable for those operating within it. This, however, went against the government, and instead a system was introduced that means a clear shift of power of influence from the municipalities to the state. There has basically been an underlying trend throughout this red-green government period. The previous government achieved e.g. to enable the municipalities to be financed by at least 50 pst. of own tax income. The government of Stoltenberg has apparently left this goal by now directing this proportion down to a score of 40 pst. The right again believes that the proportion of own income in municipalities must reach at least 50 pst. I will refer to the main features of our alternative income system and limit the proposal to propose to maintain the system of returning parts of the corporate tax to the municipalities, as well as to ensure that we reach the target of 50 pst. as a minimum. It is essential that municipalities retain parts of the corporate tax locally. It creates a drive in the municipalities to give business good relationships. This position is supported by both NHO and KS. In concrete terms, the right has proposed 4.25 pst. the company tax is returned to the municipalities. The government's plans for the municipal sector in 2012 are tight, and it will require conversion to avoid cutbacks. Improvements in supply must be made by improving efficiency. This government took over a municipal sector in order, with an orderly economy – a tight economy, but orderly. Now we experience that the local government sector as such has a negative operating result that will mean either conversion or cut, or both, and the message from the municipalities is quite clear. Part of the problem is that the state is a central beneficiary of and overrules the municipal sector by not coordinating its own sectors and special interests, which continue to express ambitions about what municipalities should do, without corresponding fresh money. The government does not make any contribution in this budget to dampen the crisis of expectations it has created, but continues to give the impression that the space for action in the municipalities is larger than it actually is. The right considers that local self-government needs to be strengthened. A prerequisite for including a service in the framework grant is that funding, laws and regulations are present at the same time as inclusion, and that both the State and the municipality and the institutions concerned have a common understanding of the implications of inclusion. For five out of seven years under this government there has been lower growth in the free income of municipalities than it was during the last years of the previous government — the bourgeois government. A continuous rhetoric on starvation shall, it is understood, have taken place. At a time when the state had about 300 billion. kr less to distribute, the red-green batches have tried to create the impression that there has been an adventurous growth in the local economy during this government. The reality is that in five out of seven red-green years, the growth in free income of municipalities has been lower than in the last part of the previous bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3937	There are many debates taking place in this Chamber, for the time being, on the subject of research. In my opinion, these debates – let's say – have a little rough quality. I want to draw out two of these research debates to underline my point. We have a number debate on how much we research here to land, and then we have a research fund debate. To take this number debate first: it is, in my opinion, bad, and at least quite confusing to people outside – we should call it – the research policy family. If we want to talk down on our research activity, and there are a number of people who are almost daunting about doing it, or if we want to justify the statement that the Trine Skei Grande joined the Questionnaire this last Wednesday, that is, that we have a minister of research who seems to want to "reduce research" – then we are bringing out the percentage that shows the total research activity of society as a share of GDP, because that is when we get too low! On the other hand, if we want to talk, talk, government research efforts, we want to look at public research investment per capita, or we can also look at public R & D aid to industry as a percentage of GDP. In both cases, we're going to be fine. This is a confusing debate, maybe both parties should step up. If we want to talk about research in another way, we're going into the research fund debate. Here – and it amazes me – all four opposition parties have chosen an approach that is almost automatic in laying down a research fund, it is at the same time cutting down, you think in the short term, and you expose the research activity to something as terrible as the political debate, the government budget debate, and that will obviously automatically lose out on it. Will we talk about research in this research fund debate, and that is my approach, for the first time policy will never be able to abdicate from the funding debate on research. If the four opposition parties want to adjust the price and salary of that fund, they must enter every year and do just that. If they actually want to put on a little bit, or increase the research activity and funding, they have to add and add a $10 bill in addition to the $4 billion. you shall take off that fund, which is in their new proposal. So it's not a question of abdicating from politics. Secondly, I believe that it must be fundamentally wrong to view it as somewhat negative that an important social activity is given attention in a state budget debate. It reminds me a little bit -- it's perhaps a bit of a limp comparison -- that a few years ago, too many, unfortunately, found out that hospitals were too important for us politicians to be able to do it. You'd like to get the hospitals out and out of jail, because then everything had to go so much better. And it really didn't. But we have the good research debates when we are going to discuss together how to get more and better research here to land. And welcome back at 6 p.m. 9 tomorrow morning, because then we have a research debate. I assume that this debate is over, so that space is free for that discussion. Fortunately, both our committee, and I also see the whole debate here today, are characterized by the fact that we are all just concerned that we want the research activity well. At the same time, I think it is important to realize that most people – to use that expression – are more doubtful that we will spend so much money on research and development work in the future. That's why I had very high expectations for the selection that put forward a NOU on May 2nd this year, the Fagerberg Committee, which was just going to give good reflections on the benefits of research here in society. Just getting a NOU that had in a good way reflected on this with the utility and the utility concept, I think I would have raised the entire research debate for all of us. But, unfortunately, that sample ends up very narrow and simple in a conclusion that – a little unfair – is basically as follows: If you count published scientific articles, and if you count the number of citations, as researchers are so lucky – I kept saying – to be exposed to or given attention in that way, you've kind of got some notions of what is the value of research activity in Norway. But research activity must be something far, far more, it must be education, it must contribute to good education, and it must not least contribute to good value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3955	The economic situation we are now seeing is marked around us, can quickly and debateally be described in very abstract economic terms: interest rates, debt percentages of GDP and growth rates – important and correct enough. However, the challenge can well be described in terms of human life and human situation. It also applies here at home. It's e.g. very serious with such unemployment as we are now seeing developing in Europe, both in volume among young people and old people and particularly among young people. It can create enormous social tensions when as many young people go out of work as long as we see in quite as nearby countries. It can also create great social tensions when we see that the economic instruments that need to be put in place depend so much on significant cuts in what we in Norway consider to be perfectly obvious welfare goods. It could also create a more significant and more biased distribution between people, as we in many ways, not only in the countries concerned, but to a large extent also in the Nordic countries, will be able to notice the body in terms of social unrest, increased marginalisation, greater differences between people, increased crime and weaker well-being for most. Once again, we see that the political instruments that need to be put in place to solve such obvious and profound problems create distrust for politicians, for policies, which are actually more dependent than ever. In such a light, it is interesting, based on the debate, so far – hopefully we have come halfway through – that there are at least three elements left after the speeches so far. At first – and I didn't think I would – I want to quote the Right Leader, who said in his speech today that we in Norway actually have the best welfare and the best economic situation over time. I fully agree with that. It's not going to get off. Secondly, I believe that today's debate has emphatically put an end to the claim of dynamic fiscal policy. One of the most important instruments we have in order to create a more even distribution, namely tax policy, is invoked by many as a good argument for creating more dynamism. I believe that many of the arguments have been rebutted. The third thing that remains after the debate is that in the opposition there is no collection of economic policies that need to be pursued to get the economy as we want it in the future, and not least to take care of the welfare situation. There's a bigger gap in the opposition than ever. In such a light, I must say that I am surprised that the opposition individually chooses to spend so much time establishing a tax policy that contributes to greater differences between peoples and that contributes to weakening the income base of the well-being we rely on. It surprises me, especially considering how emphatically the dynamic tax policy has been rejected. Looking at the estimates, not only for the Right but also for the tax proposals of the other opposition parties, it is a significant challenge to give tax reliefs of over NOK 30 000 to those who make more than $3 million. kr – for the part of the Advance Party, compared to a few and sixty thousand kroner – but at the same time to the honor of the Christian People's Party: they tighten up for those who earn a lot. It's showing the speck. But it also shows how risky the exercise is. We need more than ever confidence in politicians, more confidence in politics and also more and better funding for well-being. In fact, civil society has adopted a strategy that contributes to significantly weakening the income base, while also creating greater differences between people and helping to put the whole policy into discredit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3970	I think we can establish once and for all that Norway has enormous opportunities. We have great opportunities to take advantage of the wealth we've been given, not on the basis of the red-green policies, but on the basis of natural circumstances. This means that the Norwegian government budget is increasing year by year, and we have great opportunities. So the big question is, do we use the possibilities we have in the best possible way? After following the debate today, at least on the part of some people, one can get the impression that only the red-green politicians in Norway have understood anything about policy-making, at least across Europe. Most of us know that this doesn't lead to correctness. It is a bit special with all the money Norway has at its disposal that our roads, even when the government claims to fulfil the intentions and appropriations of the national transport plan, are still due. The railway has so many problems that even freight traffic takes a lot of hours from Rauma, from Åndalsnes down to Oslo, and now the railway is in danger of having to reduce its offer because they don't have crossing options. The Prime Minister has also stood up and talked about a cancer guarantee, that treatment should start within 20 days. Unfortunately, a look-up on a look-up has shown us that there are more empty words than there is a guarantee. Yes, it has actually become so wrong that we see that even if the private have free capacity, it is not used. An employer may choose to pay an operation for one of his employees, so that he/she may not receive a public benefit, which is sickness benefit, for a longer period of time while waiting for an operation. He is offered by the employer to take the operation to get back to work. So what's the state's award going to be? Well, that's when you get the benefit tax. That's the thank you for actually wanting to reduce public spending and get people back to work. Where has it been of simplification, as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has told us will come? We ignore the audit obligation, as was the Minister of Finance who came along, after the government had repeatedly voted against both the Right and the Advance Party's proposal to remove it. We should get an Internet page where business is going to make recordings. There is no simplification in the budget. The Prime Minister was in his intervention to warn that the European financial crisis could also affect us. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. But then it's strange – when we see the budget – that while you're worried about TV, you're exacerbating the permitting system. We are, however, adding Investinor funds, but we are not adding funds to the Seed Funds, which are to create growth and development in the districts and new jobs. We even lead a business policy where the only ones who cheer on it are the Swedes. In fact, we are pursuing a policy in agriculture – and the costs there – which means that Swedish trade continues to increase. When you get up to 11 billion. In fact, the estimates show that per billion you can count 1000 employees in the food industry. These are the consequences. Finally, I have to be allowed to say that the police have at least got the resources to do so. There we have such good advice in Norway that along the coast between Bergen and Trondheim there is one operative police boat, but only between May and September – in addition to that, we can't afford to have police boats along the coast. And then there's a lot of people who've thought that there's now a greater distance between the Progress Party and the Right. It's kind of interesting, having followed the debate here, that one of the things that the government parties boast the most is to increase the defence budget. I suppose SV is very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e3989	In the 2012 state budget, we've breached the magic limit of 1 000 billion. kr in view of the use to be made of good measures in Norway. Much of these funds are allocated to the municipal sector. The municipal area can be characterised as a daily policy. The decisions taken in the municipalities affect all people. The field is not a big policy and possibly a little everyday, but extremely important for each of us. Community policies are the building of society in practice. We take the municipal services almost as a matter of course. But what would we do if we didn't have kindergarten and SFO facilities for our children, institution space for our demented grandmother, broken roads, health stations and good water in the jump, to mention something? There has been a silent revolution on the service offer page in Norwegian municipalities in the last ten years. This revolution has not come about by itself, but as a result of political choices and priorities. The Labour Party has always chosen Community solutions over tax cuts, as opposed to the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. In a Europe of financial unrest, we in Norway are in a happy position. We're increasing the budgets where others have to cut with rough hands. We now see heartbreaking scenes from Spain, where people are thrown out of their homes because they don't handle their debt obligations, and this without any social security network catching them up. Half of the young people under the age of 25 are unemployed. Young people with education have difficulty finding a job and have to move home to their parents. The most frightening thing is that many of Europe's young people have no hope and no faith in the future. Does this have anything to do with the Norwegian government budget? Yes, because the Working Party has always been the most important working line. Having work provides economic security, predictability and contributes to building well-being in the country. Our leave is above 3 pst. Work is equal to tax is equal to welfare is part of the Labour Party's ideology, translated into action, and we can see the fruits of this every day in Norwegian society. The government’s investment in the municipal sector since 2005 has resulted in many new jobs, a total of 46 000 new annual works in the period 2005–2010. The majority are direct service providers such as teachers and pre-school teachers, nurses and others in care. The budget for 2012 is good, but it is a tight budget, we should not underestimate that. If we look at it with European eyes, it's a surplus budget. But Norwegian municipalities are also part of the world and the global economy, and are affected by conditions beyond the borders of the country. If the interest rate increases by 1 pst, it will increase the cost of about 1 billion. kr for Norwegian municipalities. Our challenge must be to balance public money without exacerbating Norwegian competitiveness. The State budget for 2012 does not add up to any experiment. The time we're in now doesn't require that either. The working party shall continue to manage the economy safely so that there is still money for welfare services and stable employment. Our aim is to continue to ensure low leave, have work for everyone and thus achieve our goal of a worthy care for the elderly. We do not claim to be in the target, but we are on our way to an increasingly better welfare society for our citizens. In today's debate, Siv Jensen from the Progress Party raised the issue of a slimmer and more modern public sector. This means in clear text fewer teachers, fewer carers and a lower offer. In order to provide good welfare arrangements, it is necessary for the employee to do so. It is a false myth that the increase in the number of employees in the public sector has gone to administrators — or faceless bureaucrats, as they are called by the Right. Only 1 out of 25 posts has gone to administration. The attack by the right-hand parties on the public sector is an ever-increasing reprisal. The Labour Party believes that work and employment are a fundamental prerequisite for building and safeguarding the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4012	I am pleased that in today's debate there have been more articles on school and education policy. But at the same time, I think it's a pity and unfortunately a bit of a hindrance to the debate that the government parties are trying to disarm us in the opposition by criticizing us for talking the school down and saying that we need to see the positive and not talk about the negative. Of course, we agree that there are many good measures in Norwegian school areas today, and we should be proud of that. But at the same time we are not so self-sufficient that we can now lean back, fold our hands and tell us contentment. Good must get better. We in the Progress Party have great ambitions for the school and for our students, because they deserve it. The government defends the low investment in school and education because it is a tight budget, and that we have to cut spending. This illustrates a significant difference between the government parties and the Progress Party, namely that the government regards school and education as pure expenditure on the state budget, while we regard it as an investment – an investment in today’s youth, an investment in future value creation and an investment in a society that can be a leader in an international competitive community. It's not talking down the school to point at the 90,000 children who are today considered weak readers, or to point to the tens of thousands of children who are bullied at school every single day. It's not talking down the school to put the spotlight on the thousands of young people dropping out of high school. And it's also not to talk down at school when we're fighting for adapted training for all students in school, both those who need extra follow-up and those who need bigger challenges. This is to put our finger on the problems, it's to realize that we have challenges, the ability to solve them and show respect for those students who actually need our help in school. We are doing this in the Progress Party in our budget. We provide more and better teachers, and we provide hospitation arrangements for programme teachers. We are positive about homework, but there is also a need to relate skills requirements to those who carry it out. Research shows that it is necessary for these to be able to help the weak students. We believe that we need a school representative who can enforce the students' own work environment law, namely the Training Act, for example. preventing and combating bullying. State Council The Halvorsen pointed out in its article the great commitment to the introduction of the 10th stage electoral profession. What she unfortunately forgot to mention was that this is not fully funded, and it seems to be able to go beyond the ordinary school offer in primary schools. We in the Progress Party are committed to preventing non-response. That is why we provide full funding for the 10th-class electoral profession. This is why we are committed to a significant strengthening of counselling and school health services in primary education. As I said, we are setting up a hospitation scheme for programme teachers, and we are betting in several apprenticeships, for example. by reducing the employer’s fee for apprentices by 800 million. kr, and provides 250 million. kr extra in apprenticeship grants. The representative, Tajik, pointed out that the representative, Tord Lien, felt that the removal of the Research Fund was “a scandal” – and that is correct, that was and is a scandal. That is why we want to create a fund model that eliminates the political risks actually posed by the government's proposals and greatly reduces the financial risk inherent in today's model. Otherwise, I noticed that one in several of the previous posts from the red-greens has boasted that the research effort has been reinforced by about 27 pst. since 2005. But this is with all due respect not to report very impressive when operating costs have increased by more than 55 pst at the same time. overall. The budget of the Progress Party is a commitment in line with the praises expressed in the debate on school and education. It is a budget that has a real focus on education and skills development in society. It's a budget that gives the opportunity to create a school adapted to each student. And it's a budget that's created for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4038	When I instead heard the Prime Minister boasting about what the government has done on the road, I thought that here I have to change my post, definitely. During the last two days, I have driven 900 km on the road network in Norway. Then I want to bring along the hall and perhaps some of those who happen to be on the Internet, on a road trip that the Prime Minister boasts so much. Yes, it was quite good to get in the car and drive out of Oslo and towards Vestfold. But at the moment you cross the border and get into Sande, the first thing you meet, is a toll station, where you charge 30 kroner in tolls, or extra taxes, which I'd rather call it, because that's what it is. Then you drive down into Vestfold, and then you meet a new toll point – you almost don't notice that it's there once, because you just drive right through and get photographed, and you're charged with a new 10 kroner in extra tax. But here almost half just disappears in drifting and collecting money in the tolling process. There won't be much of a way out of it. And then you keep going down, and when you get to Telemark, it's not very good. I think most people who have driven there are familiar with that. And when you drive through my own municipality, Bamble, you know that it's very bad. Then you go on and you get to the border of East Agder. So the first thing you see is a new toll station, where you have to pay $30 in extra tax. Then you drive on to Lillesand, and then you meet a new toll point, where you charge a new NOK 30 in tolls. Oops, this is a project this government would rather not have had, because there is an OPS, and OPS is something this government doesn't seem to be a good way to build a road. It was well decided before this government took over, and that means that that is why it has become a good path, but unfortunately there is extra tax that the drivers have to pay. That's how you can keep running. When you get to Kristiansand, you have to pay a further 21 kroner in tolls. Then you drive through Kristiansand and you get on a road where it says E39. I guess it's almost just the sign that reminds me of a European road. I think everyone who's been driving that way knows how bad the road is. The road network is our main infrastructure, and there is a huge need for investment in safe and environmentally friendly roads across the country. The most important thing is to set up motorways across the E18 from Sweden to Kristiansand, motorway on E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, motorway on E6 up to Steinkjer and to expand important projects on E134 between Oslo and Bergen. It has to be done at a much greater rate than what we do today. Then it can't be that you stand here on this pulpit and boast of everything you do, when it's the drivers who pay most of the extra bet that's done. So it's the drivers who do, and they actually pay in three times as much as they get back into the infrastructure. I am pleased that in October, Liv Signe Navarsete proposed a new solution, making road and rail projects independent of the annual budgets, so that an operating budget and an investment budget can be obtained. Has anyone heard this before? The progress party has proposed it many times, but it has not been accepted so much in the past. But we're very happy, and we think the arguments that Navarsete comes up with are very good. It's about Avinor being able to spend billions at the airport, Telenor on broadband construction and Statnet on the grid, and none of these things appear in the budget, because the companies operate outside the state budget. So that means they can invest and build infrastructure. That is what we in the Progress Party also want with a proposal for a state-owned company on the road and one on the railways and to add 15 billion. kr in equity to ensure the proper development of highways and routes. I am very pleased that one of the government parties now wholeheartedly supports the policy that the Progress Party has been entirely alone in the past. As I said, we have been proposing this for a number of years. I'm not going to hound and say 'welcome after', but I'm happy for all the support we can get. History also shows that a number of issues have been brought to the attention of the Progress Party, for example: We were for a long time the only party that wanted to lift the NRK monopoly. However, the centre party is inconsistent if they vote against something they say they are in favour of today. I would therefore invite to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to separate operating costs and investments by establishing state infrastructure companies. That's what shows that you're betting, and that you're doing it really and not messy and divided like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4071	The 2012 State budget contains 139 health billions. Norway spends most of its public health costs per capita. The Nordics have good health, and more and more survive serious illness. An increasing number of care services are received. Life-age is high and increasing. But our luxury problem is that we use too many health bills for expensive repair and too little for precaution. After the state took over the hospital, the hospital budget was doubled in a few years. For the last few years, new medical services have come mainly in hospitals, not in the municipal health service. Specialists have the advantage of education, research, organisation and funding in the field of health. High-level professional environments have a high level of performance, while basic width skills, such as those in local hospitals, are low-valued, although between 60 and 70 pst. patients admitted to hospital are treated at the local hospital level. In reality, the imbalance in the state and municipal health services encourages over-exploitation of specialist health services. Several people now claim that this is precisely a contribution to the health cows in Sjukehus-Noreg today. Therefore, the system needs to be changed. The 2012 State budget also marks the beginning of such a transformation of the healthcare system in Norway. Interaction reform is a policy reform – a social reform and a reform for more decentralisation of health services. The cooperation reform must strengthen the primary health service, which is the core wall of the Norwegian health service. People should get health services closer where they live. The growth of the health and care budgets should come in the municipalities. The preparations for the reform are well under way. New public health law and new municipal health and care law apply from the new year. There are funds for the establishment of local medical centres and health centres. Municipalities are given financial responsibility for ready-to-print patients and receive billions of co-financing responsibility for medical admissions in hospitals. From 2016, municipalities are required to create daily services for emergency assistance. This means that competence workplaces should be moved into municipalities. It's a completely correct development. Our goal with the Interaction Reform and the Health Budget is to channel health money so that we get a health policy with a heart at the right place, a health policy that does not create more social differences, but provides the most help to those groups that need it the most. There are reports that indicate the opposite, that Läg today spends most time and resources on patients with the highest education and income, and that free hospital choices are a system for the younger and the younger. Patients’ rights and free hospital choices must therefore never become a goal in themselves. The focus on justice and complaints has never lifted the least resource-intensive patient groups in society, but favored the others. So the market thinking in the health care community has its clear backsides. The health service shall be measured on a quality basis. The State budget contains many measures to improve the quality of health services. That's good. The centre party will highlight here the very basic issues of healthcare, namely the meeting between patients and health workers, the meeting between patients and doctors. It takes time, and it has to give room to create trust, it has to provide security, and it has to be able to show respect. The quality effort in the health care system starts here – quite simply. Even if we have many health billions, it's wrong to believe that we don't also have to give priority. One example is that in 2008, there were about 4,000 entry points in Norwegian hospitals for alcohol-related injuries – 4,000 hospital beds. Political trifles about browsing times are getting smaller in this image. We can't allow ourselves to prevent any more when we see billions running out, that sick bitches are being filled up, and that health cows are dying. Nor do we exclude the need to create a clear distinction between which health care is a public responsibility and what the private market needs to deal with. If we are to develop a better health care system for the future, we need to prioritise harder, we need to prevent more, and we need to show by means of measures that we mean something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4090	The big financial crisis has awakened the world. What had been a political issue became public knowledge: markets cannot control themselves. ‘The global financial crisis has lowered economies in almost all countries in the world, except Norway’, wrote the New York Times in 2009. And... ‘As unique as the fjords dig into the landscape, Norway has grown by choosing its own route.’ Further: ‘When others wasted, Norway saved. When others will limit the role of the country, Norway strengthened its creep-to-dead welfare state.’ "We saved the rich and lost economy," writes the Wall Street Journal this year. What was uncertain has become tougher living conditions. Pensioners lose the basis for food and electricity ashore near us. Every five workers are available in Spain. Almost every other youth is unemployed in some countries. This is dangerous. ‘Economic policy in the United States and Europe is failing and people are suffering’, writes the Wall Street Journal. For the Workers' Party, long lines of welfare policy are fundamental. Ideology is related to political memory. Economic decline in the late 1800s and early 1900s hit Norway hard. 800,000 Northers emigrated to America. My grandfather was one of them. After years of saving, the family could come after. Our close history shows that politics makes a difference. The working party chooses the safety of the many, the work of the many, the school, health care and care, the equivalence of all, regardless of chance and innate gifts and regardless of whether the family is wealthy. It's a big, long-term project. We make choices, and we pick something away. We choose well-being and a stable level of taxation. Normal family economies cannot save themselves to good education for children and future nursing homes in a private market. It must be resolved jointly. Each year, the United Nations Development Programme ranks living conditions in 187 countries. Norway is also at the top of the ranking of human development this year. For the Workers' Party, the instruments of welfare policy are being developed, even when this leads to conflict. One example is that knowledge development leads to specialisation in healthcare. That's what results are. A recent OECD report shows that Norway is now at the European summit for cancer survival. In the previous report, in 2009, we were just on average. We're getting progress with a system based on public solutions and community. Other countries choose private solutions and lose national prosperity because opportunities do not reach all. 300,000 men and women do a great job every day in health and care. I'm proud of the efforts they make, always on the side with the patient. At the same time, we know that offers and capacities can still be even better. The solution is therefore more common, not tax relief and not privatisation. Right-wing scares with private health insurance. For the Workers' Party, private health insurance is not applicable. We want transparent Community solutions without minimum insurance conditions. It's easy to sell cheap insurance. But cheap health insurance is cheap only for one reason: they have many exceptions, and the exceptions are in small writing. The reality is that there is no private health insurance that can match our public collective solutions. But this shouldn't be a rest cushion. We must be humble and impatient. We need to improve gaps, and we need to keep up with knowledge development and see new opportunities. We're too bad. A bad course may not be an innovative prose, but it provides security at the dinner table.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4133	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4136	If you dream of a good life, maybe you'll book the dream trip. Which train do you get on then? In order to decide, you will be able to review the offers offered by the different companies, which options are available in the various destinations. You ask yourself where it is safe to travel and where to find the exciting experiences you are looking for. You want to walk around freely, while looking for challenges and new opportunities. If you're there for a long time, you're also out to find a job that gives you a living. My travel destination was chosen by my parents. I won the lottery and was born in Norway, the best country to live in. That the government is running the country with a bad course is good. That the state budget is so tight that we keep the krone price stable and the interest rate low is very important, especially for us who live on the coast, because there it is because of export-oriented business, and for them this is especially important. Furthermore, it was essential to put in place a sustainable solution to export financing now. These frameworks are or are not in order for the major maritime projects to be launched here in Norway. It in turn ensures many important jobs, where each employee contributes to the creation of value added. During the financial crisis, it quickly became clear that we had to get effective measures in place quickly. It turned out to be working. It was an important piece to keep the work going and safe individuals from unemployment. Our friends in Europe, on the other hand, have not succeeded in the same way. Too many, young as old, feel like standing on the platform, and there are very uncertain prospects for them. It's actually incredibly good to be able to say that here at home is the release of 2.4 pst. And we have a record high employment. In Mora and Romesdal, where I come from, it's only 1.9 pst. unemployment, and it is in a situation where the uncertainty is really great all around us. We have a lot to thank for, and a lot of people are going to have the credit for doing well in this country. But we're dealing with a global world economy. Although we've had the best medicine for the financial crisis, we can't be 100 pst. Make sure that we “stand off” in the next storm. But if we get a little less, as this government budget is set up, there is reason to be optimistic, because it is a responsible budget that secures more. It may be a bit stressful to remind you that it's Christmas soon, given that we're here almost all day – and if we're not standing right here, we're in the house all the time, and not out buying Christmas gifts – but I choose to see this state budget as a Christmas gift to the people. It is not the most expensive and exclusive Christmas present, but it is good as gold because it stands. It is part of and contributes to purchasing power, and it is part of and contributes to competitiveness. The Labour Party guarantees that we will extend to improve the situation of the people every day – and give room to everyone on our future train.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4155	The road is the workplace for very many people in Norway, and this is something the authorities should take seriously. There is a clear and unambiguous link between road standard and road safety. We have a lack of daily rest places for our trailer drivers, even though they are subject to driving and rest arrangements. There are poor, or lack of, control of foreign trailers, trailers running without proper protection on Norwegian winter roads, creating chaos and many traffic accidents. E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal is an unsafe and very dangerous road. Still there's departures here every 119 meters, yet there's two footfields above the E18. Yes, here it's urgent to put in a new four-field road with middle-parts, so that we can secure ourselves against tragedies. The E18 in Westfold was formerly a dead end, but it has become incredibly much safer after four-field roads with middle parts on most of the distance. If you drive too fast, the police can take off your driving licence and/or give you a fine. If there are serious defects on the car, the car can be separated. But if the road standard creates traffic hazards, nothing happens. This is irresponsible. The government has received strong criticism for this for a number of years, including: from the Party of Advancement, but also from the State Disaster Commission for Transport. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have responded to the criticism by establishing a roadside supervision, under the direction of the Road Director and the Road Administration of the State. This is almost as if the Food Authority were to be owned by Gilde or Tine. The government obviously does not want proper roadside supervision either, because on the 2011 state budget they only spend 11.2 million. kr for this purpose – despite the fact that the Ministry of Transport says that proper and independent roadside supervision will cost 40 million. kr, i.e. Almost four times as much. It is inconsistent to oppose independent supervision of Norwegian roads, when the red-green parties are at the same time very much too independent supervision of routes and of aviation. The Committee would like to see a common transport control system for all modes of transport, as in proposal No. 63 in the financial position that we are dealing with today. That means that we want an organisation that is supervising road, rail and aviation. Such supervision shall not be a toothless organisation subject to the direction of the road. No, the Transport Regulatory Board proposes that the Contracting Party should be completely independent. Supervision shall be capable of closing dangerous roads, as other workplaces with dangerous working conditions may be closed. Then we would have speeded up road maintenance, because we can't shut down the roads. To be honest, I cannot understand how anyone can oppose independent control of Norwegian roads. How can people oppose supervision that will provide the best possible road safety? I would therefore urge as many as possible to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Sixty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4177	The right's alternative budget creates security through knowledge and competitiveness. We have repeatedly shown that we can both manage economic policies for the best of the country and of its inhabitants and facilitate well-being and good social development. The debate today, of course, is primarily about economic security, but for the Right, security also means the absence of crime. On the right, there is a judicial policy that ensures people’s security in everyday life. Security is part of Norwegian welfare and is important for the quality of life of individuals. Police coverage has decreased to 21 out of 27 police districts under this government. Uncertainty is increasing. That's why the Right will grant 400 million. kr extra for increased security and more visible police. The country around the local population feels that the police are not present. In many police districts, it is reduced to keep expenditure within the limits allocated to it. Many of the graduates at the Police College have not yet received a job in the police department. The extent of serious and organised crime is increasing. Rans and intruders come from a number of countries. One-percent MC clubs, and support clubs for them, are established in many municipalities. It is then important to ensure resources to combat this crime much more specifically. This is why the Right proposes to increase efforts against organised crime by 10 million. kr. Oslo is in a special position as the country's largest city and capital. Crime trends in Oslo are often ahead of the rest of the country. The city is subject to widespread crime, both through the terrorist attack on 22 July and in the context of a series of killings, raids and drug crimes. In 2011, there has been a doubling of the number of reported rapes in Oslo. This is very serious crime, with great consequences for the victims, and it creates insecurity among many of the city's inhabitants. That's why the Right is proposing to set aside $80 million. kr to Oslo Police District, in addition to the government's proposals for the state budget. To the right, this is about meeting the crime challenges offensively, with competence and resources, and not like the government, with beautiful words and descriptions of reality that do not match reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4194	The interaction reform has been mentioned several times here today and is being introduced from 2012. We're proposing to spend 740 million. kr next year. This is not the first money the municipalities get, no, there have been transfers for several years. Before the Interaction Reform has entered into force, the government has spent over 1 billion. kr on interaction. Interactions have been used for local medical centres or other cooperation that improves the availability of services where people live. That means that patients don't go to hospitals, because they can get an equally good offer, or a better offer, in their community. This means that hospital staff can receive treatment where they live, without hospitalisation. A good example is Vestfold, where twelve municipalities have now been given the opportunity to increase the competence of their employees for intravenous treatment in hospitals. Nygård Hospital in Sandefjord is responsible for the training, and patients receive treatment without hospitalisation. This is the Interaction Reform in practice. Competence and sufficient staff are an important part of the reform. The red-green government has provided more people with care since 2005. There are now about 19,000 more annual works in the municipal care services. It's obvious. Many employees have enjoyed the Competence Lift and have had training in Demensorgens ABC. This is better for those who need help. That's why we're continuing that competence exercise. The right has in its budget a desire to launch a lift of competences in care. That's a great thought. But we're already running, so welcome after. When the representative Skei Grande from the Left is calling for reforms under the direction of the Red-Green Government, she has probably forgotten the Cooperation Reform, because this is an important reform that ensures holistic services. At the same time, there is a focus on prevention and more public health. This shows that the red-green government is targeted and dares to implement what we announced in 2009 would be the future health reform. We want to ensure the right treatment in the right place at the right time. We're taking the grips that are going to happen. Unlike the Right, which thinks this is too fast and too much, and will brake and train, we believe that it is exactly right and at just the right time. We build health and care further. We want an even better care for the elderly and an even better health care system. There's reason to be proud of much of what's done, but it can be so much better. As long as someone doesn't get the help they need, we're going to go on. We dare to take the grips that are going to, because we believe in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4213	The advantage of being a number. 69 on the list of speakers is that a lot has already been said. The disadvantage is that it has been said by others. So let me comment on some of that. The representative Marthinsen and many other representatives of the Red-Green parties have talked about the crisis in Europe – and attacked the Norwegian right-wing tax reliefs in the same breath. As if relief from a strange tax on Norwegian jobs would lead Norway into an economic crisis! We must be able to expect more detailed reasoning in this Chamber. The fact that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg also argues so superficially and easily gives cause for concern. Greece, Spain and Italy share the view that they have survived, borrowed overcapacity and failed to carry out the necessary reforms in tax systems, pension schemes and other public welfare goods. This is the starting point of the crisis, and this is where we need to find the long-term solution of the crisis. In meeting the failing demand of our main trading partners, it is absolutely necessary to stop the collection of equity from businesses that are already operating on the margin and that face gloomy times – corner stone companies that, in the worst case, have to borrow money to pay taxes on a business that is in deficit. Trond Giske has this problem. Roar Fleethen begins to realize the seriousness. The representative Marthinsen – like many of his red-green colleagues – prefers ideological skyscrapers. The representatives Serigstad Valen and Solhjell wonder what the Right believes about the climate agreement. I understand their need to talk about the climate policy of others. Even now they have no one. In the 2012 state budget, only one new climate action has been proposed, for hybrid cars – except for nothing. There are no signs of triggering socio-economic economical measures from Climate Change. There are no signs of prioritisation of public transport in metropolitan regions. On the contrary, the Lørswingen in Oslo is torpedoed. There are no signs of prioritisation of biogas, bioethanol and biodiesel. On the contrary, the signal is a full user charge. There are no signs of long-termity and predictability for electric cars. On the contrary, the leaks from the Ministry of Finance indicate the opposite. There is no exceptional railway lift that can help to lift the country beyond what is already in the climate course reference path. There is no investment in the removal of oil firing in public and private building and housing stock. There are no clear targets for energy efficiency improvement, no follow-up to the Arnstad Committee. The attack from Serigstad Valen and Solhell is therefore becoming somewhat pathetic. The government has a majority. It can do whatever it wants. It chooses not to do anything. Let's admit together that this is difficult, that we have to get started, and that it is becoming more expensive and more demanding to achieve the climate goals for every day the government spends. Let me add: let's not forget the classical nature protection, even though climate is important. There is no need to cut dramatically in forest protection in Norway and in the cleaning up of toxic sediments in fjords and port basins, as the government once again proposes in 2012. Nature, after all, is not just an inheritance from our ancestors, but just as much a loan from our children. To Solhjell and Serigstad Valen I would therefore like to say: take responsibility or leave responsibility to us. We are ready – always ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4234	Then I'll be speaking no. 70. A lot has been said before I take the floor. I think there's a red thread going through the debate here today, and that's the view of which model of society we're going to choose. Economic policy is in particular in the right place to discuss when we are going to choose which model we are going to have. The red-green budget proposal that lies here, which will have a majority, is a model of security and value creation and, as we have also seen, of the development of small differences in society. It is responsible for the organisation's life. It is a level of taxation that enables us to finance the welfare offer, which is available to all groups, wherever you had to live in the country. This has just contributed to the creation of a high level of adaptability, high productivity and low unemployment and, in particular, security and predictability. That's what, in my opinion, is really the core of the budget debate, and it shows the differences. Then I'm going to address something that also has to do with security, namely the defence budget, which we also have up to the framework decision today. It's a 40,5-billion-dollar grant. kr, which means the completion of the long-term defence plan. It is the first time in history that we are now fully financing the defence budget and providing the necessary resources for operation and conversion. That's what we're doing tonight. Today, we are completing the transition that we have long planned in defence, so that it will not be in a sustained structural crisis, in which the defence has been in. So a little bit about what happens elsewhere in Europe: there's an adorable situation there, and we're preparing not to get into such a difficult situation. However, some countries have believed that it is possible to have welfare services at the level of, among others, the Nordic and a fully bottomed tax level comparable to that of the United States. I can't. The international debt crisis is a final farewell to irresponsible tax policies on the right. We take responsibility. We have a framework for our economic policy, see. the rules of action, as set out in. the financial accountability we base in our budgetary position. There is no free money anywhere. Nor can we push the burdens on the future generations of our society. This has to do with justice, it has to do with distribution and it has to do with morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4251	I come from a little bit of Norway. It is a beautiful piece of Norway, and it is an important piece of Norway with great value creation. More and Romesdal are one of the largest export countries in the country, and every 10 industrial jobs are found there. It was not long after the state budget was presented, until the notifications from my home country arrived. The vast majority were pleased with the budget. For example, I can. referencing the clear message of the Maritime Forum: ‘The 2000 000 working in the maritime industry in the county should be satisfied with the government’s presenting a tight budget. This will contribute to job security.’» They also say, ‘A tight budget is essential for the price of crowns and export-oriented jobs.’ This quote illustrates how well the government meets with its economic policy, and the content of the main message of the Maritime Forum has been the review tone of many who have expressed their views on the state budget. The business community also applauds the government's policy of removing the audit obligation for small limited liability companies, reducing the form field and reducing capital requirements. In today's debate, the Right has expressed dissatisfaction in all its speeches, both with the government's industrial policy and economic policy. Rather, I choose to listen to business and social organisations. They think a lot is good with the government's policy. We are privileged in Norway with tripartite cooperation. Many believe that this commitment cooperation is part of the explanation that we are doing as well as we are, while several countries around us are struggling with debt crisis and record unemployment. In my view, the right should rather be concerned about the economic policy of the party with which they wish to sit in government, namely the Progress Party. With the irresponsible use of money and dubious invasions of the Advance Party, more than me is afraid of the consequences if the Advance Party comes into government. I have not heard a single representative from the Right who has made critical remarks on the economic policy of the Progress Party in today's debate. So a small degree of final legal degression: the Progress Party proposes that foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons be offered lower standards than Norwegians. The Norwegian Prison and Free Care Associations are slaughtering the proposal and saying it is backward and racist. You believe that the proposal is a bad criminal policy and that it is a crime promoter. The government parties will vote against this proposal by voting later this night, and I hope that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4279	The voluntary organisations are an important part of civil society and are an important venue for many people. They are glued both in community and in a national perspective. Therefore, Justice has always worked actively to improve the framework conditions and to limit the scope of rules, prohibitions and obligations for voluntary activities. It's sad to see that the government put chains in the wheels of voluntary organizations, for example. cannot follow up the stepping up of the 2012 VAT refund scheme. Therefore, it is very gratifying that a group of oppositions would like to correct this by proposing to increase the rights of the 2012 scheme by 200 million. kr. In addition, deductions from donations to voluntary organisations are extended from NOK 12 000 to NOK 25 000. In addition, the right will raise the wage obligation limit to NOK 8 000 and increase the employer’s obligation limit to DKK 50000 per person added and NOK 500000 per person organisation. This will make it easier for people who want to make an effort, and it will not least reduce the red tape of voluntary organisations. Security has been an important issue today, and security through knowledge and competitiveness is the right recipe in a difficult time. An important security factor is the Rescue Company. Safety at sea is very important. Voluntary organisations have a central part of our coastal preparedness in terms of both search, rescue and oil protection, and the Rescue Company is entirely responsible for coastal security. Examples include: the importance of the ‘Emmy Dyvi’ life-shoe in the rescue action of the ‘Nord light’ rapid-release window of the Ålesund. The rapid response to rescue skates clearly shows the importance of close proximity with coastal rescue skates. Another example was the last Tuesday when MS "The North Star" had engine problems outside of City. The ship received help from a rescue shooter to Torvik south of Ålesund. The statistics of the Rescue Company show that in 2010 there were 18 lives, 77 ships, 124 sick transports and 622 vessels. This shows that the Rescue Company is making a very important effort to ensure the safety of fishermen, people and boats sailing along the coast. Therefore, the Right wants the Rescue Company to receive the funds needed for 2012 to provide a good preparedness, and to increase the proceeds by 30 million. kr, so that they do not put boats in storage and permit people, as the government party wants. Last week we saw proud workers' party politicians boasting that they had received 10 million. additional NOK to the Rescue Company. Now we see in the financial situation here today that it's just going to be $5 million. kr to the rescue company. When we know that the red-green government has 350 billion. kr more to be used for this year than Bondevik II had in 2005, the downside of the Rescue Company is a good example of a failing government, and of sedentary red-green politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4305	The Christian People's Party notes that the government is making some positive efforts in the budget to make tax policy greener. The conversion of car charges with a greater emphasis on CO2 emissions is positive. We now see that emissions from new cars are going down. At the same time, we are once again experiencing that the government is waving in the policy of charging when taxes are increasing again on diesel cars. Isolatedly, this is a proper grip. Particulate emissions from diesel cars create local environmental and health challenges that need to be addressed, but this was known when it was decided to turn diesel cars into tax collectors a few years ago. The government is waving in an area that means a lot to people's private finances. Car purchases are a large and long-term investment for many, and repeated changes in charges in different directions from one year to the other create frustration and anger in people most. Here I believe the government is doing the environmental service. The diesel tax is the example of the year, biofuels are different. This wing weakens the environmental exposure of people. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's scheme for green tax exchange in sum is too small. The government is more concerned with whips than with carrots. The focus is more on securing the country’s income than on the impact of the measures taken. The charging policy is a suitable tool for changing consumer behaviour and influencing people’s attitudes, and therefore it should be used to shift society in an environmentally friendly direction. Green tax exchange contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions and to the emergence of environmentally friendly alternatives. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we propose to introduce a five-year exemption from the annual tax on the purchase of new, environmentally friendly cars. This is a scheme implemented in Sweden with a great deal of luck. Overall, this gives a tax relief of NOK 14 000 over five years. It's not very much, but it gives a positive signal. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that the scheme could lead to nearly half of all cars sold in 2012 being an environmental vehicle if the Christian People's Party's policy had been put into effect. At the same time, the Christian People's Party increases the CO2 component of the one-off fee by 20 pst. to make cars with high CO2 emissions more expensive. We are also doing several other environmentally friendly actions in fiscal policy. We propose to introduce an environmental tax on plastic bags. We propose to increase the electricity charge and the mineral oil charge to stimulate energy efficiency improvement, and to make renewable heating solutions more profitable compared to oil firing. This is a green twist. We also propose to increase the CO2 charge for petroleum activities on the base and for the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad. Oil companies today pay less for their emissions in CO2 taxes and allowances in total than they did for some years ago. This is about everyone having to be in the climate dungeon. The Christian People's Party believes that these sectors too must.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4342	Parts of Europe are in turmoil. TV reports from Spain and Greece show despair — look full of hopelessness and powerlessness, anger, anguish and sadness. Here we are debating waiting times for breast implants after women are rescued from cancer and receive life-saving cell poison treatment paid by the community. Creating security in a critical time is important for the Workers' Party. Work, clear priorities and conscious governance provide security. People shouldn't be thrown into the street or lost their jobs. As a nation, we have a greater moral responsibility for each other in times like this. The Labour Party pursues a conscious and targeted policy in areas related to children, work, education, care and major reforms, such as Nav and pension and disability reform, job strategy and IA work. Working life shall be safe and predictable, the Working Environment Act and tripartite cooperation shall not be eroded. People should have equal opportunities. As a country, we are quite unique, regardless of the Right and the Advance Party's efforts to talk Norway down. But that's quite natural, because they'll create another country. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have stagnated in old-fashioned, past political ideology. Their four-field route through Norway consists of tax cuts and market management. The road has been found to end in the wrong place, and along the way there are scratches of uncertainty. They drive forward unrelentingly and make themselves as weak friends. If we read the budget carefully, we see that the big bets give the strongest right. Right-wing policy has a clear direction: 12.6 billion. Tax cuts are to be taken from agriculture, regional development funds, trade unions and hospitals, to mention something. The representative from the Right who was recently up and talking about the Rescue Company, two posts before mine, has not read our policy well. We've really invested in safety at sea, and we've taken the rescue services seriously. The government modernises Norway, the districts and the large welfare systems. On Tuesday, I met 240 military sailors. They were honoured with the baptism of the memorial of the Horseman. There were 240 men with each his own special story: loss, uncertainty, wear and dread. But yet a strong community marked the whole marking. It was to touch and feel. It was worthy and proud. Community gives people hope, security and faith in the future. There is important capital in uncertain times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4361	I'm speaking. Seventy-five. Little has been said about defence and security policy. However, the head of defense said quite a lot today. He said very much as we in this room will have ample opportunity to come back to, not least during the spring. He underlined the need for annual additional investment in the order of more than 4 billion. kr per year for nine years to keep track of infrastructure, material, construction and property requirements. This is going to be very demanding. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the representative Tore Nordtun and others has also chosen to point out, in the wake of everything that goes unimaginably well in this country, that even if the long-term programme of defence is met this time, it will be very demanding, even at a time when, not least, defence suffers from the loss of the share of gross domestic product in Norway. In comparison, then, the Ministry of Culture has a growth in its budgets that the Defence can only dream of. It happens in a period when we see that the bride does not practice enough to reach a minimum level, we see that the number of sailing days for the Maritime Defense goes down, and, even worse, that the number of days sailing for the Coast Guard goes down. This is duly mentioned in the Riksrevision report, which I assume gets some attention, at least in some departments. We also know that we are in a situation of financial crises, where unfortunately our friends have to cut the defence budgets. We see that our closest alliance partner, NATO, is at the core of economic and other problems. It is not lacking in challenges as such. We are also in a situation where we have to take greater responsibility ourselves, not least in our northern regions, which have gained a much greater international interest, of course because it is a huge resource bank. Energy, minerals and fish, etc. is keyword. We see that unexplained borders and a more self-confident Russia make us have to navigate more in our own direction, where we can no longer lean so much on others. That is why a debate like this also requires that we take our own security and our own defence more seriously than just that the government parties are beating their breasts and saying about the state of things that, for the first time in history, the long-term plan is being fulfilled. It's not the impression of the boys and girls who are going to participate in building up our security policy future that feels like everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4370	We live by each other's participation here in the country. That participation is by opening the doors to each other. As a result, we have become the world's most equal country and the world's best country to live in. But being the world's most equal country doesn't mean we're equal. That just means that we're at least poor in class. That is why this budget provides for more steps to be taken on the road. We'll do that in every budget until we get there. The fact that men tend more than women, even when they are in the same position in the same enterprise with the same education, that men own more, that men rule more, and that they have so far attained many more human beings than women's bones here I am now, illustrates that we are not equal. We are not. The biggest thing about the foot for us to become that is that some party prefects that we are – in the same way that the greatest danger to the safe future of the economy is the perception that that security will exist no matter how we manage it, and that an equally likely thing to do is to make grips that weaken security, or to say it in the words of the right-hand side: grips that are ‘spanning’ or ‘modern’. With that recognition, we can choose to do two things – either continue to expand the equality work that we have started, which gives results, or we can choose to do nothing. Solveig Horne talked about the freedom of family in his post. To that I would say that free choice does not become real until we have to clean up social structures that prevent them. Not doing it is political disclaimer. The Progress Party has repeatedly said that they are different in our solutions to achieve more equality, because they are old-fashioned. They claim that they don't give room for choices, even though they know that the results of our solutions are that the options become more real. Different batches must have different solutions. We always have. But in this context, the Progress Party does not agree that we have a problem. That's why they don't have a solution. Truth has one child and a budget comment. One of the comments made by the Progress Party to this budget states: ‘These members’ – i.e. the Progress Party – ‘are of the opinion that there is too much emphasis on action to promote equality’. I allow myself to repeat it: there is ‘too much emphasis on action to promote equality’. I'm assuming that the Progress Party means what they say, and what they write. They think there's too much equality, and we're doing too much to achieve full equality. Their comment on the budget is an active announcement of the gender debate. It's not random that we have a safe economy and are the world's best country to live in. Equality plays a major role in Norwegian economic policy. If one thinks that one should further develop a good society, a safe economy, safe families with free people, we have to bet on more equality, not less. I am pleased that this budget is being raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4388	Despite the fact that our health services are among the best in the world, the debate sounds like we're in the bottom layer. It's clear that we can get better at a lot, and we're going to take those challenges seriously. But we must not conduct rhetoric that makes it sound like everything is wrong. It is also a little suspicious if you think it is as bad as the Right says. Then it's a little surprising that they can give tax credits of 12.6 billion. kr. For us, we want to spend that money on health care and the care of the elderly instead of tax relief. That's why we're strengthening patient care in hospitals by 1.4 billion. kr. It will increase patient treatment and help reduce the waiting list. The right continues with its claims that the administration of health businesses is inefficient and costly. They want to cut the hospital administration by 580 million. kr. – while we can read in an OECD report that Norway uses 0.8 pst. of the total health expenditure on administration, while the average for OECD countries is 3 pst. That report should help to remove the myth that the administrative tasks in our healthcare system are inefficient and costly. The money to be cut by the right of healthcare companies is to be used to purchase private health services. However, there will be no more hands in the health sector by privatising them; there will be only more owners to collect profits — often owners in large foreign groups, sending profits out of Norway. The interaction reform is the greatest health reform of our time, and it will help us to think health in everything we do. We need to focus more on public health and prevention, we need to reduce social differences with the Interaction Reform, people need to get good health care near where they live. After a long and comprehensive process, we are now ready to roll out the cooperation reform across Norway. When we started working on the Interaction Reform, almost everyone agreed on what was the challenge and what action had to be taken. The complaint from the opposition at the time was that we took too much time, and that there was nothing left of the content of the reform. Then came the message to Stortinget, and then the tone was different – now it went unwarrantably fast, and we did too much action. Then the opposition wanted us to postpone the implementation and start the trial project. It's a little late. There have been good pilot projects going on in the municipalities for a long time, and I can tell that several of the ideas for the good measures in the cooperation reform come from there. Although there are many good purposes one can always want more money for, I am glad that we are presenting a budget that will help secure jobs and a low interest rate, while at the same time being able to prioritise important tasks such as health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4406	There are dark clouds over Europe, where we now see the result of a dynamic tax policy that was launched by well-meaning politicians, who believed that taxation would give rise to income to the state. There was no increase in income, and there was no growth. We saw the same thing in America. When Bush took over after Clinton, the first thing he did was to put the taxes down. And what happened? Well, the income was nothing of it, and it owed it to wax. Berlusconi did the exact same thing — down the taxes, revenue was nothing, and wax was involved. Today, we see that taxes have to be increased in order to get countries back on their feet, but now they have to use them to increase tax revenues to pay interest and deductions on high debt – and not on welfare gains. This is actually the same path that Right wants Norway to enter. Right proposes tax credits of 12.6 billion. kr in the year’s budget. This will, of course, make the wealthiest even richer, but the usual wage earner, the man in the street, will receive tax incentives in that the trade union manager will no longer be entitled to deduction. This is the Right's rightful thinking and the premise that we have become the most well-organised working life and the most responsible employee. Last week I visited a global company with a main base in Förde. She has multiple turnovers and excess and number of fixed additions – and that under the red-green government. I asked about tax pressures, about property taxes, and about property taxes, and I got the answer that they were actually more concerned with the possibilities than with the limitations, and that Norway was the potential of its country. That's quite right! Some 300,000 new jobs have been created in Norway since 2005 – this in very strong contrast to what Right said in the 2005 election campaign. Then Børge Burnde said that thousands of jobs would disappear if we had red-green relaxation. Yes, right ran around with something they called the loan calculator to show how much more expensive the loan to the common man in the street was if we red-green came into government. Because we wouldn't be able to keep track of the economy. You're talking me about being wrong! Why should we believe in Right's tax laws and choices today, when history shows that they were wrong – very, very wrong. Today, there is competitiveness and productivity that is mantra, and I think they will take very, very wrong there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4425	Norway has to be different in many areas. The crisis in Europe is very serious, and it can affect Norway at any time. When you turn on the TV, and when you look around, you see that every day people fight for their rights – they fire cars, they rob shops, etc. We're not going that far outside the front door until we see this. Then it is important that we have steady economic governance. It is crucial to secure both Norwegian businesses and people's jobs. It's the most important thing. The Labour Party and the government have steered the country safely through crises before, and we are ready to act again when needed. And that's what people see. The last time we were in a financial crisis, we put in funds that helped secure people's lives, and we also got to do a lot around us even if we were in a crisis. People want security. I think today we have made even more clear the dividing line in Norwegian policy. I think it's even more reinforced than it's been before, and I also think it's going to be just more and more enhanced. Norway has the tradition that the authorities and social partners take responsibility and practice extensive cooperation on all issues related to working life. Tripartite cooperation is important. In the 1990s, we showed that it was fully possible to create real wage growth while at the same time improving competitiveness. There were many of us who remembered the alternative of solidarity, where we who were at work showed solidarity with those who were unemployed. This time we must show solidarity with those who can become unemployed. Norway has strong competitiveness. The right and the bourgeois parties must stop talking Norway down. We have a well-managed society, a high level of competence, good welfare systems and, above all, stable business environment. We focus on education, research, culture and simplification. That's how we get ready for the future. In a budget marked by soberness and the need to keep the economy in order, we have once again found room to bet, among other things. on transportation. The red-green transport budget has increased every year since we took over in 2005. Good road accessibility and efficient public transport are of great importance to people's everyday lives and to our competitiveness. In four years we have laid out 13 000 km of new asphalt. It's the same distance from Alta to Damascus and home again. It's not so bad. This is important for housing and business. I'm very pleased that we're starting this promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4440	Valuables and competitiveness have been repeated in today's financial debate. Siv Jensen said in her speech that she fears a weakening of competitiveness in the future. She wants more people into the labour market and more creative Norwegian jobs. Jens Stoltenberg gave a clear recognition to everyone who is betting and creating new businesses. New numbers from the SSB show that many of them are immigrants. They are 12,2 pst. of the population, but a total of 18.7 pst. by those who establish personally owned enterprises and the proportion has increased rapidly. Sigbjørn Johnsen pointed out that what makes Norway rich is the work of many. He has previously referred to women's entry into working life as one of the things that has attracted the economy up. The potential has been exploited to a large extent. The greatest potential now exists for immigrants of working age. We must continue to integrate more into the labour market, in our own interest. Then we can continue to combine economic growth and social justice. Torgeir Micaelsen said it was time to raise his eyes. This may include, inter alia: means changing the focus of the debate on immigration and integration, where some have made it a matter of referring immigrants as a burden on Norwegian society to its brand. They should end with that. The creativity Siv Jensen calls for, she can find among the immigrants. The Economist is probably a good source of finance debate. This week’s main headline is ‘The Magic of Diasporas’ — how business networks of migrants are changing the world, while migrants’ contribution to economic growth is still greatly underestimated in our part of the world. The networks have always been there, but are growing rapidly. Good communication means that contact with the country of origin is maintained. Trust and cultural knowledge are important in emerging markets with weak legislation. Migrants with knowledge of several cultures open doors across borders. Norway has migrant entrepreneurs in most industries. Audun Lysbakken has understood the point, when he is now working with a permanent founder's guide for immigrants, among others. with experience from the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation in Drammen. The drama The business community has realized it when they build networks between their member companies and this center, and the benefit goes both ways. NHO Buskerud has understood it, with 25 talents from 17 cultures in its Global Future programme. Stranger fear, according to The Economist, is the biggest obstacle to using these networks. In Norway, integration is better than most other European countries. We should also be able to take advantage of that as another advantage in international competition. Right a little thousand suggestions to give lower taxes to work immigrants than ethnic Norwegians think I don't want the same effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4451	It's been an interesting debate. We have seen an opposition that has lost faith in the future. They stand there with cracks in their backs and say that we feel good – but in the future, things will be bad. It may seem that these representatives actually believe that in a world that is in one of the most serious crises ever, Norway has the biggest challenges. Have we heard this before? Yes, we do. Before we took over in 2005, it was predicted from the blues that we would drive this country into the ditch. From the last financial crisis we all remember the mantra that this was a government that delivered too little, too late. Both claims are made to the degrees of shame over the years that we have driven the country to continue growth and prosperity. It has to be depressing to be in the opposition. We live in one of the countries that succeeds best in the world in many ways. We build well-being and create jobs at a time when most countries have to move in the opposite direction. But when we succeed, when we as a society do it better, then the Right and the Citizens prefer not to have any responsibility for it. It may seem that the Right has become the largest exponent of the law of jante in this country – again with a slightly bent head. Yes – it is going forward, but it is not the profits of the politicians, it is not Norway's profits. No, it's lucky and so-called outlying. With all due respect to report – this is politically a little serious. Mr. Torgeir Mikalsen has, in a commendable way, taken a settlement with this through the debate. Right and the others talk our country down. If it was almost a law of nature that it was going to go so well here in the country, then I really don't understand why you spend so much time in this room. That is, of course, nonsense. No serious politicians really believe that there are luck or natural laws for wealth growth that make things go forward. It's about politics and what models we choose. We have chosen a solidarity layer of splinter that guarantees all well-being, care, health and education. We have a public pension that pays us if we get sick, and unemployment benefits if we lose our job. This creates security, and security gives us surplus people to think and create. Labour and industry are well-organised with strong organisations which, together with the government, provide a stable basis for growth in wages and productivity. These include: this they will hit, those who cut in the union deduction. We have a high level of professional participation, especially among women – not at random either. We have a low unemployment rate. Through strong public ownership, we have ensured control of our natural resources, and this is not random either. These choices make us create a society that manages to combine even income distribution, well-being for everyone, competitiveness and innovation – it's forward-looking, it's modern.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4462	When I travel around my own country and have been around the country on committee trips, I'm very surprised at how bad the path we've been running on. I think that from 2005 onward, the government would be investing a lot of government money on the way. The election promise was that it would be a good path. As I see it, the opposite happens. The roads have been even worse. Former Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, said, "Now the roads are so bad that they can't get any worse." So mistakes can be made by a government council. The county councils would really get tasks and responsibilities, and they have. They have been given the poor road network described by the former Minister of Transport, without having followed with sufficient means. No one is able to build and maintain roads only with good promises, it must mean, and in this case there must be a lot of means, so much means that the government itself did not see for itself to find them. We in the Progress Party will spend more money on the road, as our alternative budget shows. Unfortunately, there is a number in this room that wants to reduce the use of oil money. That is why we want to re-priorities to provide funds for the necessary societal tasks. We can no longer look at the excess consumption that is currently in the Norwegian bureaucracy, and strong subsidisation of some classes. We now see a strong centralisation from the red-green government in public service production, such as. Hospitals. Should not the districts die out completely, there must be much more investment in infrastructure construction than we see from this government. Does the red-green government mean that the districts will die out slowly, but surely, is this budget prepared for it? It would be more honest to say in plain text that unfortunately we do not have more money to go out in the districts, instead of travelling around the country and serving election promises that are only broken. At an election meeting at Bryggja in Nordfjord earlier in the fall, I heard a representative from the Central Party in Buskerud who said clearly and clearly from what was needed to build the country, but who admitted that the Centre Party did not receive support from the Workers' Party and SV for such an infrastructure effort. This representative is typical of the Center Party – run around with promises and debts on others when he doesn't get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4479	The Labour Party and the Government have previously shown the ability to act with determination and speed when necessary, as in the case of the financial crisis not long ago. In addition, at challenging times, we have shown the ability to cooperate widely with business and trade unions in order to create a basis for responsible wage making. If we are to develop responsibly, everyone must contribute. In order to achieve that, I believe that we must build on a solid and fair welfare society, community, virtue and solidarity. Both authorities, workers and competitive businesses depend on our ability to maintain inflation and wage developments in chess. Business, trade, political left and political right want moderation. The citizens like us, the workers and the trade union movement want to work together and set up in difficult times. I was at Stord this week and attended the LO Hordaland County Conference. That's where I argue for a solidarity paycheck. Immediately I was confronted with reactions to the financial industry's paycheck, and questions about why should we, when they are not going to. Employees demanded community and solidarity in their efforts. The right side of the debate has been busy with tax cuts, special taxes on wealth. They're always that. It can be respected in itself. But in the same way as a billions of money tax screen, they suggest an unnecessary tax tightening for organized workers. This is not a good contribution to the good of a solidarity wage settlement in line with the country and the community's interests. It's like celebrating the solidarity of serving Napoleon's cake to the well-held, while at the same time removing the yellow cheese from the coarse bread slices to the common workers. In a situation where we are all concerned with moderation, one could exceptionally be tempted to provoke employees and trade unions – a never so small time-out where citizens were able to live with the irritation of the tax deduction for quota over the financial year, if there is cooperation. Fortunately, we can manage without the ability of the civilians to cooperate with trade unionists. We are still focusing on the tripartite cooperation that can create community, virtue and solidarity in the wage debate. Then everyone has to contribute. Solidarity is not just a good word, it must also be shown in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4496	The financial debate in a small country far north of Europe has been very international. Many of the debaters have described the dark clouds and the threat facing the European economy. However, today's debate has also been in many ways a struggle about which story we are going to have about the country of Norway, where the political wings separate layers. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, was in his post, for example. and referred to the fund reserves we have made. The representative pointed out that the fund increased by approx. Forty million. kr per hour, to over 400 mill. NOK at the time he kept his post. Now, I guess, according to his calculations, we're approaching 480 million. kr. Here, the Workers' Party has a fundamentally different view from the Progress Party of what wealth is here in the country. For us, national wealth is primarily the work that is being done, because that is what represents the creation of value. There is also the superior part of the national wealth, calculated for approx. 84 pst. The financial assets, for which Hagesetter pointed out and was engaged, account for a disappearing small proportion, approx. 4 pst. – both share, according to the 2012 national budget. For the Workers' Party, it has been and will be the job number one to get work for everyone. And if we are to realise the renewable resource that work represents, and the important part of national wealth, it is essential that we be able to create jobs. Many speakers have shown that we succeed in Norway. We have created over 300,000 new jobs since 2005. We keep unemployment low. It is lowest in Europe, despite the economic crisis we have been through. Employment rates are among the highest in the world. All of this helps to increase our national wealth. The picture that the Right is trying to create, of a country where pay levels are about to break competitiveness, is not correct. The right is also trying on a story where there are employees' wages and salaries that are the problem, and where the state is peeling capital owners through the taxes on wealth and makes it almost impossible to run stores. There's no story that we recognize. It is not the story of Norway. The results I referred to earlier in my article stress exactly the opposite, that it is possible to run a good store in Norway. The proportion of wages and salaries in Norway is stable at about 60 pst., which also shows that productivity stays high. The fact that we contribute according to our ability enables us to grant important well-being goods, such as kindergarten, free statutory rights to higher education, free higher education and good public pension schemes. All of this also contributes to a high level of employment and thus high value creation and a solid and robust labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4511	In the course of today’s financial debate, several people have been involved in the turmoil of financial markets both in the EU and in the United States — important trading partners for Norway and the open, Norwegian economy. The uncertainty associated with factors surrounding the state budget is greater than normal, and we need to be prepared for a new economic setback to also affect Norway. In times like this, it is particularly important to strengthen the factors that ensure growth, value added and employment. On the right, we are committed to meeting this challenge of creating security through increased knowledge and competitiveness. Our alternative budget and our priorities are just following up this track, among other things. through a strong commitment to research and technology development. Several later describe a two-part situation for Norwegian industry. The part of the petroleum activity industry has largely good order availability and high activity. The challenge for this sector of industry may be to ensure, first and foremost, the recruitment and availability of adequate skills. The second part of the industry in Norway, which addresses the more traditional export regions, is increasingly meeting lower demand and lower paying capacity in its markets. This is a situation that needs to be taken seriously. Basic conditions for future jobs in a high-cost country such as Norway are that they are based on a high level of knowledge and that we have competitive framework conditions. These challenges are not met by cutting research funding or lack of action to strengthen performance in Norwegian school. Nor do they meet by favoring foreign ownership of Norwegian industry because of the strange wealth tax. These challenges are best met by the Right offensive policy, and I want to mention two examples. The right proposes the establishment of a large environmental technology fund. We have major challenges in reducing greenhouse gas emissions both globally and nationally. This work is likely to have to be done primarily by developing smarter technological solutions in several sectors, whether energy production, energy efficiency improvement or transport — to name a few. Here is a large room for opportunity for Norwegian industry and competence environments that we want from the Right to facilitate is being exploited. Another example is the funds Right wants to give to research, among others. in the petroleum sector. History shows that there is no area where we get more for each crown invested in research. The level of ambition of the right is that the State share of petroleum research should be around 600 million. kr annually, and we're going to grant 100 million. In addition to the government's proposals in this State budget. This research is important, inter alia: to ensure that we can obtain a more cost-effective production on a Norwegian base, and not least that we are able to increase the extraction rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4526	I thought I'd rock the debate a little bit by stating that Norway's rock capital is Namsos. 11.11.11 a.m. 11.11 opened Rock City and Rica Rock City Hotel in Namsos. It was an amazing experience to attend the opening concert with the reunion of Prudence as the highlight. But the most important thing about this opening is that it was the beginning of a cultural and nutritional effort that is important for Namsos, for Namdalen and for the entire Trøndelag. Already from the start, there are 40 new jobs in Namsos, a municipality with 13,000 inhabitants. This corresponds to nearly 2,000 jobs in Oslo. Rock City is a cheek egg. It's an experience center for trombone rock, it's an industry center, and together with the Rica Rock City Hotel, it's a great travel experience and a travel life lighthouse. The jobs that are already there are important, but even more important are the opportunities for the new jobs and the ringing effects in the neighbourhood and throughout the region. The industry centre shall contribute to the emergence of the new talents and jobs – not primarily the new Prudence, DDE, Askil Holm or Chand, but those supporting the artists, and the new occupations of the entertainment industry, the world's fastest growing industry. Why am I talking about this in the financial debate? Yes, because this effort would not have been possible if the policies and budgets of the Right and the Advance Party had been in force. The success criteria to achieve the value creation infrastructure of Rock City in Namsos are not part of the toolbox of either the Right Party or the Advance Party. The success criteria have been a good cooperation between the municipality, the county council, the instrument of innovation in Norway and the government, mainly at the Ministry of Culture. The Labour Party is committed to community action, and community action is also about taking the whole country into action, about having an active policy that makes it possible to realise such bets as Rock City, while the Right and Advance Party are cutting into instruments that support economic development across the country. It does not help to increase the funding of Innovation Norway for nationwide innovation loans and to contribute some millions to local economic development, as the Right does, when they simultaneously cut regional development funds of the county municipalities. Without an active county municipality that has contributed both directly with regional development funds to Rock City, and indirectly through Innovation Norway through an exceptional strengthening of the loan framework and with regional development funds to the Rica Rock City Hotel, it had not been guaranteed any of the bets in Namsos. Getting to experience Prudence in Namsos on 11/11 was an incredible experience. Prudence's song that there's a long way to go from Namsos to Royal Albert Hall, has been a little out of date with the realization of Rock City, because Rock City actually makes the distance a little bit shorter. The solutions of the Right and Advance Party would have made the distance from Namsos to Royal Albert Hall still equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4547	The right is therefore of the opinion that our industrial policy does not ensure the sustainability of the welfare society, but the low unemployment and the situation in Norwegian business shows that they are wrong. The situation in low-unemployment and high productivity industries in Norway is the best parameter for the functioning of industrial policy in Norway. It is true that we do not compete at the lowest possible level of taxes and charges or at low wages here to countries. On the other hand, we are a well-managed society with a high level of competence, good welfare systems and stable framework conditions. It looks like it has worked very well for this country, as opposed to the description like for example. Right Øyvind Halleraker had in his post. The husband of pessimism. Norway has strong competitiveness. The right must stop talking Norway down. The main picture of us doing well as a nation is our high level of employment and low unemployment. Here we are best, and therefore we are competitive as a nation. The right-hand black paint of the nation's prospects does not really matter. We focus on education, research, culture and simplification. That's how we get ready for the future. The best goal of competitiveness is whether you have competitive businesses and profitable jobs, and we do. The right-hand alternative budget can be described in many ways as a blueprint from last year. There's not much new to track here. The new thing might be that they're trying to dress up a new language theme, while politics is the same. The main bet is not surprising: tax cuts, the majority of those who have the most from before. The right-hand side will have a tax system that transfers a greater part of the burden to the private economy of people, and they will weaken the rights of workers. They thus increase the responsibility of the individual and weaken the responsibility of the community. Burden distribution is uneven, and it is not good for the individual’s contribution to society or for the country’s total value creation. Finally, I want to include an important issue for this government that we have worked a lot on: It is important for this government to remove unnecessary barriers to business. Although it is good to run a business in Norway, we focus on the work to simplify the everyday life of the business community. Many people have promised business simplification over the years, including business ministers from both the Right and the Left. A little has happened, but now it's turned around, which is what excites business, even in the NHO, and that's in itself a good sign. The government's objective is to reduce business costs by 10 billion. through simplification measures. No other government has taken simplification for business more seriously than this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4564	How we handle our budgets gives very important signals about what kind of ideological course you want. It's important now, because we're living in a time of great uncertainty. The crisis in Europe, which has turned right into everyday life, the work, the wallet and the home of very many common people, who have not been involved in creating that crisis, can not only turn into the economy of Norway, but I think we're going to see, and we've already seen a little of it, that it's also going to affect the Norwegian labour market quite a lot. Now people are going to move more on than they've done before, because they don't have a job. It is already the case in Norway that there are many foreign workers. One of the things that has made Norway a civilised country, and that has made us have distributed power and money better in this country than what has been done in almost any other country, and that has also made us financially successful, is that we have had a strong trade movement, we have had good legislation on the labour market, and we have had pay and working conditions that have made money and power distributed in such a way that the country has worked well, and that welfare has been shared among all. Now we see that this can be under pressure because people from other countries come and will work here. I believe that this must be right, but what is important is that we make sure that Norwegian pay and working conditions are maintained in Norway. We see some trends now that I like badly, and that's about us thinking maybe it's okay that an underpaid servant class from abroad comes to Norway, which is going to work here on worse terms than we have in Norway. We're now looking at the right-hand side attack on employee rights. This budget is about cutting the deduction from the union quota. There can be no other signal than that one believes that being a trade union is not important. Well, that's important, because it's precisely part of securing the distribution mechanisms of power, influence and money that make this country successful. Nor is it the case that there is reason to weaken the Working Environment Act because it is believed that all Norwegian jobs are such that you can do the work from the iPad on the cabin. No, most jobs in Norway are such that the bus is to be driven 24 hours a day, the nursing homes are to be operated 24 hours a day and the maid has to work 24 hours a day. Many employees in the trade in goods and transport work very much, and they need strong protection of our work environment legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4576	Many from the opposition have stated in this debate that Norway is actually in poor development and is poorly prepared to meet the challenges ahead. First of all, this is about education and research, and that still red-green governance will lead us into the accident. This is wrong in my view, and an expression of the opposition's need for black paint. When I, who has lived for a while, look back, I see both ups and downs, but I also see that we have been doing pretty well in the last six years. And I have to say that I also look optimistically at the time ahead of us if we just stick to the solid grip we have on budgetary governance, as the Prime Minister so brilliantly summed it up at the beginning of this evening meeting. So to the research, where we should also have become a retard. No, we don't. We'll bet hard. Then I refer to the presentation of the Research Council on the 60th SINTEF marking, which shows that Norway is at the research summit, in fact. Looking at public R & D investments per capita, it shows that Norway is remote from the top of the world, ahead of countries such as Iceland, the United States, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, etc. In addition, very much Norwegian R & D is carried out directly in large projects, without necessarily being recorded in European statistics. Examples of this are technology developments on the base, where oil companies spend billions of dollars on R & D without necessarily appearing in the Norwegian R & D overview. In other words, Norway is very strong in applied research. Not least the 60-year-old construction NTNU-SINTEF contributes to this. NTNU is ranked fourth in international unions of universities with the best cooperation with industry, which in turn strengthens the area where Norway does not appear to be very strong, namely in terms of business research efforts. It is in these research and R & D environments that the workplaces of the future are created. A huge effort is being made on a daily basis for future value creation and well-being. I believe that the opposition in this debate draws a false picture of the research effort in Norway. It's at a high level, and it should, in my view, also be able to see the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4593	Right will invest in people and creativity. Creator power is important for the whole of Norwegian society, and several representatives from the government parties have been appointed to be in the front line in and for the Norwegian business community – a business for the future. What is the business community asking for? A better infrastructure. The government boasts of a historic commitment to commerce. It was just supposed to be missing! The government has more to go with than any other government has ever had. Nevertheless, the cost growth is so great that counting only money does not help, because a few kilometers of new road and double rail tracks become too small. The horn music plays for 7 km of new road there and 14 km of track there, and the Prime Minister shoots around to cut strings. The creative force of the Norwegian community is that people come to work, and that business comes out with their goods, but it goes wrong. So it's going to go wrong with what this government promises. The goods do not go from road to keel, it goes from keel to road. The goods don't go from road to track, it goes from track to road. The economy chooses the path above anything else because predictability is not there, the flow is not there, and logistics is badly lacking. The right-hand side uses 1 billion. kr more than the government of infrastructure, road safety, middle and collective services and upgrading. So the government is 2 billion. kr as estimated in the national transport plan. The start of the Follobane has been suspended and a new timetable has been put on hold. The right-hand point is that we want more way, we want more double tracks faster, and we know that it can also be cheaper. We will apply new funding methods. European countries do — including countries that manage, to which the government refers. On the right, we want a much more comprehensive planning system, a planning system that preserves this whole – especially in the field of transport – that will give us predictability over the years, and that it will be cheaper. The government opposes new, responsible methods, which Europe has had for a long time. The right-hand side is accused of lack of political morality when the Right wants to use the entire society – public as private. Is that ideological poverty? No, the left-hand side calls ideological poverty, is wealth. In the end, I would like to point out one aspect, namely that the government parties have said that now it is better for the Rescue Company – 10 million. kr more. The document says five million. kr. That is, people around the coast are expecting 10 million. kr more to the Rescue Company, and that people around the coast have pressed to get the government to give 10 million. kr, but you're being fooled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4608	A safe person is a happy person. Safety and well-being are closely linked. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that has a strong focus on good Community solutions, the working line and fair distribution. These focus areas are also important for reducing crime and increasing security for people. I am proud of the efforts and profile of today’s government through the 2012 state budget. Despite many challenges, we are moving step by step towards a better and safer society. It's not that the evolution of crime in Norway is exploding. No, rather on the contrary. Evolution is progressing in the right direction. In addition, we see that we are well off when there is a relapse in the criminal justice system. And as the Council of State also mentions in its statement: our courts have a rapid procedure in relation to the courts of other countries in Europe. There is every reason to argue that they add to the police, the criminal services, the courts and others in the justice sector make a difference from the job and achieve many good results. But it is also important to look at the challenges ahead. The event of July 22 reminds us of this. This is why we are taking decisions this evening to strengthen the justice sector by 2.2 billion. kr. High admission to the Police Sculpture, 202 new police annuals, 1.5 billion. New emergency networks, reinforcement of emergency straps, reinforcement of helicopter preparedness, strengthening of police and prosecution authorities to investigate and follow up terrorist acts, continued the strengthening of the PST, strengthening the electoral group of Kripos and the establishment of a new children’s home in Ålesund – to mention some areas. The opposition's criticism falls on stone floor, and I agree with the leader of the Justice Committee, Per Sandberg, when he spoke to the media a few days ago that the police have been getting a lot of money in recent years. What are the realities? Well, since 2005, the government has strengthened the police budget by about 4 billion. kr, or 48 pst, if any. The government has doubled its admission to the Police Ball, and since 2005, the PST has increased its budget from 230 million. NOK 381 million. kr, or 65 pst.– for those who are occupied by percentages. I am fully aware that this is not enough, but there are important and good crime prevention measures in a healthy policy. It shows that we have a government that invests in areas that are important to the nation and that focus on good measures that save many too much pain and heavy losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4621	In the spring of 2011, integration policies were put on the agenda. Two important investigations were carried out, the Brochmann Committee’s report on Welfare and Migration. The future of the Norwegian model’ and the report of the Kaldheim Committee ‘Better integration’. There is a notice for the Storting on the basis of these two reports, and I look forward to being able to debate integration in a thorough and decent manner here in the Stortinget. If it's going to be a good debate, in my view, it's important that we talk the truth about the big picture. It should be allowed to put our finger on the many challenges we still have in the field of integration, but it is equally important to point to areas where we have actually succeeded. It does not always help either the debate or the integration to claim that integration has been completely unsuccessful, as the Progress Party is constantly guilty of, especially when that is not true! The report of the Kaldheim Committee states that policies and instruments have not produced sufficient results, but also emphasises that the available knowledge base, available statistics and other facts show that the integration of Norway is largely successful. The sample also states: Compared to OECD countries, immigrants are relatively well integrated into the labour market and a relatively high proportion of Norwegian births, i.e. second generation immigrants, taking higher education. The development is going in the right direction. This is a fact, and therefore I am concerned that the integration debate has to be more about how we can make the policy work better than always to create the impression that everything has failed, and that we almost have to start at scratch. I think the key to good integration lies in civil society. No one is integrated through a process at a Nav office. We absolutely need the good competence that exists there, but it is primarily through relationships, and in particular through relationships based on friendship and sincerity, that good integration takes place. Important arenas here are social communities that include the Nordics and immigrants, such as workplaces, teams and organisations and, not least, the school. The Christian People's Party strengthens the commitment to good integration in its alternative budget. We are strengthening the budget in addition to the government's proposals in various areas, approximately. 110 million. kr. We can't just talk about integration. We also need to focus on targeted measures and be willing to realise that this also costs money. Integration is also about having expectations of each other. Having expectations for immigrants to learn Norwegian, participate in the profession and contribute to the community in other areas is about an ambition that everyone can succeed in Norway – if we facilitate it. It is also an important perspective to incorporate into this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4638	One had to expect significant doses of self-responsiveness from the red-greens in this debate, and one might say that they have overfilled in that area. The one that met most, I think, was the head of the Business Committee, who went to praise the government's efforts in the incredibly clumsy handling of the Export Finances case. So does the Prime Minister in a previous post. He talks about high readiness and being prepared to act quickly, and he used the export finance case as an example. The truth is that you went after yourself in this matter. They let it run, had export finance downgraded, and created uncertainties about billions of contracts and about thousands of jobs along the coast. I have rarely experienced the husband’s pressure from organisations and from individual companies in some simple matter. It was very serious, and then you're going to figure out the opposition that would have so-called permanent exceptions. Yes, we would like to have it, and the government would have to do so from the time you knew the matter in the autumn of 2010. But you didn't do anything until you were pressured into it. It turns out that both in the Financial Supervisory Authority and in a few independent legal environments it could have been possible. Now, as the head of the Business Committee says, the best order in the world is to be found. Yes, we don't mind. But I think we have to draw attention to the fact that you don't get the world's best system, because this is to be notified and approved. You get it under normal market conditions. And then there is one important matter about this that has not been affected. Export finance has a long-standing competence. They have employees who can do this and who have a significant network. Very familiar, there have been no clarifications about the company. The issue of export finance itself lies in the Business Committee, but the government, which is now to be involved, is able to clarify this with Export Finance, so that the competence does not disappear. I have to say that even if you get a state institution, it's not going to work just because it's state-owned. There should be people there too, and I've understood it so that the red-greens are very much to take care of them. Take care also of those who exist in export finance, and the knowledge they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4649	It seems like it's quite small here in the country, at least when you hear the opposition. Especially in the Right, there has been sport in producing Norwegian society as bad. According to the Right, Norway is characterised by an excessive level of taxation, schools are poor, productivity is poor, the public sector is consistently poor – yes, most of our society is apparently too poor according to the Right. The problem with the Right is that most things work very well in our society, and that the claims fall on their own unfairness. Let me do some examples. Tax levels are not particularly high, our school scores more and more on international surveys and tests, there are 300,000 jobs created under the current government, and we have evenly over among the best welfare systems in the world. And not enough, we also have low unemployment and low interest rates thanks to a responsible economic policy. At the same time, we see that many countries face major economic problems. Millions of people, and especially young people, are thrown into unemployment, many lose their apartments and houses, pensions are severely cut, and welfare schemes are severely cut. The debate here today with the Right Discontent Focus therefore becomes surrealistic and incomprehensible. We're going to be humiliating to the challenges ahead of us. I'm glad we have a government that manages to combine economic governance with a good welfare and distribution policy. The alternative is the policy of the opposition, in particular the proposals of the Right and the Progressive Party on tax cuts for the richest, the privatisation of welfare and a weakening of workers' rights. Politics is about choosing direction. For us in the Labour Party, it is about choosing a responsible economic policy that provides the basis for creating, for us it is about choosing a policy to ensure the well-being of everyone, for us it is about choosing a policy for a good and fair working life, and for us it is about choosing a policy that reduces the economic and social differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4664	The government parties have today shown a touching concern for the Norwegian business community. Here we have registered that representative after representative has delivered one travel report better than the other – stories about meetings with entrepreneurs who are happy with the state of things. I'm fine with the store. I am not going to complain that they are not going anywhere, nor that they have taken pleasure in business. In fact, much is going well in Norway, and much of this is due to responsible policies. When a representative from the position goes up here and points out how important it is to conduct an economic policy that does not increase the pressure on the Norwegian kroner, I fully agree. This is essential for our export industry to cope. When a representative from the position goes up and points out that it is important to pursue a policy that keeps interest rates low, I also fully agree. This is also essential for our export industry to cope. It was therefore with optimism that I listened through the introduction to the posts of the representative Bjørnflaten today. The representative just pointed out these two important things: the exchange rate and the level of interest rates. The bear surface had also been on a journey of formation. She traveled to Senja, and there she had been introduced to economic policy by the people of the marine industry. The bear face was sometimes glittering from this pulpit when she defended the export-oriented business demand for a responsible economic policy so that it could be strong enough to tackle a falling market. That is why I was disappointed when I realized that the Bjørnface had been busy on Senja. So she had not had time to bring her whole conversation when she visited Senja. When she went to the Right's suggestion to remove the property tax, called it unsocial and 'unaccountable', I realized that she had unfortunately had to end her visit unwarrantedly early – unwarranted early because she missed the tax lesson I know she would get at Senja. When the market falls and the maritime food industry has to stock up, current taxes on wealth create problems for them. At the turn of the year, the warehouse is valued and the owners have to pay property taxes on the value. In a challenging situation with a lack of markets, low sales and, consequently, low revenues, likely companies could have wished to use the funds for conversion, or they could have intended to use the funds for market development or to use the funds for product development or employee training. But the wealth tax doesn't work like that. So when it becomes the most difficult, the company is at risk of the state increasing the tax burden by means of the property tax. Right-wing tax policy is not unsocial, and Right-wing tax policy is not irresponsible. When we talk about removing taxes on wealth, right-wing tax policies are business-friendly and cyclical. When things go bad, there is no need for higher tax pressures. In this way, equity is needed to increase competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4681	Sometimes opinions and policies that are quite far from being in the vicinity of the intention and policy of the Progress Party can be added to this room. The representative of Ingarill Olsen stated in his statement that with the policies of the Advance Party and the cuts in public bureaucracy, it would go beyond nurses and teachers. In fact, the Progress Party, through its draft budget, strengthens both the individual teacher through several actions and targeted actions towards each student, where the student’s ability and potential for development are at the heart of the focus. The Progress Party spends far more money on health than today's government. There should be no place to have more than 280,000 people in line for treatment. We have made proposals in Stortinget to strengthen nurses and help nurses, which today's government voted down. But since the representative Olsen believes it is not possible to work smarter and more efficiently in the public sector, I would like to point out an example of the opposite. We do not have so much reason to be proud of the effectiveness that many seem to be calling for. In a 2011 report on transport infrastructure in Sweden, Finland and Denmark, on management and organisation, the Norwegian State has 13,960 employees to manage the transport infrastructure, while Sweden with almost twice as many inhabitants and far more roads and land has 13,200 employees. If we look at Finland, the 4,300 employees have to do the same job as almost 14,000 do in Norway. The Danes have 4,400 employees for comparison. At the same time, it is a fact that both Sweden and Finland are building much more roads, motorways, middle parts, etc. than what we can do in Norway. Did anyone mention the word ‘efficiency’? It is healthy, responsible economic policy to invest in its own infrastructure and capital in Norway. We need that. Our competitiveness towards the rest of the world needs it. It is a prerequisite for settlement, and not least for the long-term business community such as Norway, to ensure that roads are safe and efficient, and to reduce the time and capital use of freight for the consumer and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4694	I thought for a long time that I might be the last speaker, so I had intended to keep a very low voice and not teasing anyone up. I think that the debate has reflected in many ways that the position has a very need to draw up its own image of what the opposition believes, and then you attack it. That's what you're allowed to do. That doesn't reflect what we're talking about. I wanted to take the floor to say that it must be a strange feeling for the Minister of Finance to sit and listen to parts of the debate, at least those posts that have been referred to in relation to dynamic tax policy, perhaps especially the last I heard, with Storberget. If someone really knows dynamic tax policy, it's the Minister of Finance. He was responsible for the tax reform in 1992. There was a high tax base, a large number of deductions and depreciation rates were removed, and tax levels were greatly reduced. The result – and it is described in Meld. St. 11 for 2010–2011, the so-called evaluation report, which we discussed in the Financial Committee last year – «there is also a sharp increase in the tax revenue of companies after 1992, measured in relation to gross domestic product». That effect was quite immediate. The company tax in Norway went from less than 2 pst. of GDP to well over 3 pst. in just a few years, and today it's at 4 pst. It's a very good illustration of how important it is to use a proper tax system, and it's a very good illustration of how powerful the dynamics are in the tax system. We are discussing the European crisis, and there is a lot of evidence that this is a kind of grip that many countries in Europe can regret not doing at that time, which is why we are struggling with today's problems. So I understand that the Minister of Finance does not want to take the floor in the debate against his own, but I might suggest that an internal seminar be taken after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4717	Yes, for many of the government parties, a seminar is a delightful form of politics. So it was supposed to be. There's been a special debate that we're now rounding out. It's been shaped by the communications departments. They are the ones who have grown most in the government apparatus. I've been waiting for a settlement from the Workers' Party. It was notified early. But a settlement should have substance and relevance, both missing. A settlement is not about pasting characteristics on the counterparty, but about discussing realities. We haven't seen that. The working party has made a settlement with strawmen – a settlement that has a very few positions in this room. They give the impression that there is a budget that is adapted to the situation, regardless of whether you expect high growth or low growth. It is not credible, but we will remember this when the first crisis package comes, if it was as well adapted to this budget as one thought. But it's a little strange when everyone who disagrees with any priority from the government is referred to as either sour, sour, or negative. It is not a very constructive form of debate. I record from this debate that asphalt creates inflation in the country, while turbines do not. Build a roader, break an action rule, but build a power plant, and you don't. And if a social democratic government, for example. in Greece, has driven the country down the road, although the surplus in the Norwegian state budget is 345 billion, it is largely not necessary to reduce taxes in Norway. kr. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has come to the conclusion that we are discussing the state budget precisely for Norway, not Greece, and we must take account of the opportunities available to us here in the country. The Workers' Party has attacked a dynamic tax policy that no one here has tried to defend, and the Workers' Party believes they are responsible for 345.7 billion. kr in surplus on the State budget, while the irresponsible have a SEK 344.8 billion. kr in profit. Part of the debate has been about economic growth, where one gets the impression that everything that goes well is due to red-green policy. I want to read from economic analysis 3/2010. It says: ‘The demand from the petroleum industry thus greatly contributed to the economic recovery that ended at the turn of the year 2007/2008, providing incentives that subsequently countered the economic downturn in the wake of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009.’» I think we should give credit to those who have invested a lot in Norway, despite the lack of petroleum notification and despite the fact that several of the government parties do not really want that industry to invest more in Norway. Then honour the one to be honored. The Progress Party has called for ambitions and action. There have been too many in the opposition, but we haven't got it from the government, unfortunately. But I don't think this is the last time we're discussing the budget for Norway for 2012. Unfortunately, not only does it benefit to talk about sunshine when we see dark clouds, then we have to deal with the clouds, but I guess we have to do it another day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4742	Before I thank you for a comprehensive debate, I would first just like to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. As regards the additional appropriations for the Rescue Company, the financial position shows that the amount of appropriations increased by 5 million. kr, but when the budget – the framework – is now adopted and the trade propositions are going through in this room, it will be clear that 5 million have also been redispatched. kr within the limits of the Ministry of Fisheries, so that the total allocation will be additional 10 million. kr to the rescue company. Let there be no doubt about it. It's against night in the National Assembly. Unlike Ketil Solvik-Olsen, I think it has actually been a useful debate. It has sometimes been sharp, it has been extensive. It has been characterized, from both the opposition and the position, by the fact that there is a very demanding economic background in our neighbouring countries, and then – as it should be in this room – there are some different opinions and attitudes about how to tackle such a situation. I think we should be pleased when we see what is happening in other countries, where democracy throws the cards, and technocrats, at least not people elected by the people, are the ones who are now taking the lead. I hope that this debate has also contributed to the fact that we have all taken it seriously that there is a challenging situation in which the country can stand up, but I agree with Ketil Solvik-Olsen that we will certainly come back to that in future debates. With this I think I say thank you for the debate and good voting!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4753	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 to 4. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4766	We're ready to go to voting over today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e4782	A total of 75 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-5, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 6-25 and 27-68, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 69, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 70, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 71 to 76, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left The president pointed out that there was an error in the numbering of the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote. Proposal No. 26 does not exist, but all the proposals are included. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71 to 76, from the left. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 719 783 0002Family and consumer40 086 217 0003Culture7 978 694 0004Foreign affairs31 850 634 0005Justis21 399 893 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 430 641 0007Work and social336 326 765 0008For defence35 653 039 0009Industry4 312 695 00010Fiskerry580 308 00011Agriculture15 574 639 00012Oil and energy-106 178 250 00013Environment3 908 906 00014Constituent institutions1 790 540 00015Health138 080 416 00016Church, education and research53 005 368 00017Transport and communication35 532 821 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector143 968 33100019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue10 109 075 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-18 600 00021Financial administration, etc.28 919 323 00022Taxes, levies and duties-1 026 997 572 00023Distributions, etc.-28 678 455 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-231 644 789 000» Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget for 2012 with a case that ensures that Norway assumes greater responsibility in the international refugee work by increasing the quota for transfer refugees by 500.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of current payment practices related to action sites in the Attangling Companies and Growing Companies until 1 July 2012. It further calls on the government, in cooperation with these companies, to promote a proposal for a new and better payment practice in the context of the revised national budget for 2012.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in paragraphs 6 to 6 of the day-to-day pay regulation in order to retain the daily allowance rights from 40 pst. until 20 pst.» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that the enterprise where there is agreement between employees and employers pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually allowed.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of standard health notification periods according to the Swedish model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e5027	There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 978 783 0002Family and consumer41 335 917 0003Culture7 980 662 0004External32 385 634 0005Justis21 676 893 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing15 787 982 0007Work and social339 109 535 0008Defence35 651 939 0009Industry4 630 895 00010Fiskerry580 308 00011Agriculture15 757 339 00012Oil and energy-106 338 250 00013Environment3 657 206 00014Constitutional institutions1 835 540 00015Health138 541 594 00016Church, education and research51 861 968 00017Transport and communication35 195 821 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector143 078 431 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue10 104 575 00020The Institute for Export Credit-18 600 00021Financial administration, etc.28 905 623 00022Taxes, levies and duties-1 029 286 172 00023Distributions, etc.-28 908 855 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-231 495 232 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e5226	There is a vote on proposal No. 69, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 387 283 0002Family and consumer40 779 317 0003Culture7 859 562 0004Foreign affairs30 470 234 0005Justis21 810 193 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing14 987 282 0007Work and social338 462 635 0008Defence36 151 939 0009Industry4 798 895 00010Fiskerry580 308 00011Agriculture13 620 539 00012Oil and energy-106 157 250 00013Environment3 503 906 00014Constitutional institutions1 790 540 00015Health143 602 694 00016Church, education and research51 993 968 00017Transport and communication35 710 421 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector136 876 731 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue10 254 475 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-18 600 00021Financial administration, etc.28 698 623 00022Taxes, levies and duties-1 022 697 372 00023Distributions, etc.-29 132 855 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-231 666 532 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e5422	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–25 and 27–68, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration625 842 0002Family and consumer40 002 050 0003Culture6 467 973 0004Foreign policy24 751 432 5005Justis22 024 193 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing13 727 095 0007Work and social336 064 746 0008Defence36 551 929 0009Industry5 041 895 00010Fiskerry506 058 00011Agriculture9 404 741 00012Oil and energy-106 815 549 00013Environment3 380 078 00014Constitutional institutions1 808 540 00015Health145 916 194 00016Church, education and research51 657 603 00017Transport and communication38 215 821 00018Rame transfers etc. to the local government sector141 850 43100019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue10 704 47500020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-18 600 00021Financial administration, etc.27 924 244 00022Taxes, levies and duties-1 007 405 922 00023Distributions, etc.-27 561 555000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad 225 176 285 500» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to move away as soon as possible from the framework funding and back to a financing model for kindergartens that ensures the units a real payment per user.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in laws and regulations so that it becomes up to the individual family how it will distribute the maternity leave between itself.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case in which father is entitled to withdrawal of parental leave on an independent basis.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to regulate the rights of children in terms of price and index’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a system based on objective criteria whereby the voluntary sector is fully exempted from VAT expenditure as compensation for the current VAT compensation scheme.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the next year’s government budget to submit proposals on normal business collection procedures for the NRK licence.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the television licence system.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the fragmentation and sale of the NRK in such a way as to achieve effective competition and achieve cultural policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit a case to phase out the press support.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals for equal treatment of paper and e-literature, so that equal written content is treated with equal value added tax.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide figures on the total costs of refurbishment and maintenance of our national cultural institutions.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a ceiling on the proportion of the budget of civil society organisations that may come from the public.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to establish practices with independent evaluations of Norwegian aid and Norwegian aid projects.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up plans for the phasing-out of Norwegian aid in beneficiary countries where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to launch a pre-project for increased food security in developing countries through trade in food and cereals.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the security mechanism in the GSP scheme.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to actively combat discrimination against Israel in international forums and organisations.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a guarantee of work for all police students who have completed their three-year police training so that they are entitled to work. The guarantee shall be valid up to the target of 2 officials per year. 1000 inhabitants have been achieved.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that in the future the preparedness for terrorism will be satisfactory by strengthening the PST, the overall helicopter fleet and the rescue team.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce its own lower standard prisons for foreign criminals.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the courts avoid downsizing in 2012’. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals to provide married/consensual minimum pensioners with a special supplement of 85 pst. by G from 1 May 2012. ‘... Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a tightening-up plan and a legislative amendment providing a special 1G supplement to all minimum pensioners, irrespective of their civil status.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes that result in the reduction of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners being set at 10 pst. from 1 May 2012.’» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the legislation on the permitting system remains unchanged.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions and to set up a selection to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public acquisition rules.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of setting up one or more Structural Funds for a fund-in-fund solution which is managed professionally and which can contribute when Norwegian enterprises need increased capital strength.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explore the possibility of transferring the management of state ownership to a fund-based solution in order to ensure the professional management of the country’s ownership.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own Fisheries Council in China.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a wide-ranging selection in order to carry out an evaluation of the functioning of the rules of procedure laid down in the 2004 Competition Act.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce simplified publication obligations when purchasing below the national tender threshold and to facilitate an effective, unbureaucratic national web-based structure for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the framework conditions of the fisheries and aquaculture industry with a view to better adapting them to a reality of open international competition and fluctuations in export opportunities.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Act to promote the turnover of agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of freely transferable milk production quotas.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on concession by acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]] Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the restrictions as regards the number of participants, the distance limit and the quota ceilings for dairy co-operatives.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop an export strategy for Norwegian agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to repeal the existing regulation on foreign processed agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the laws of the land with a view to modernisation and simplification.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting to amend the regulation on the foreign processing of meat and dairy products, inter alia, in order to make the rights sold in auction negotiable.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the network charging scheme with 1 ear to Enova from 1 January 2012.’» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case on wreckage policy.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The government asks the government to arrange for the purchase of supervision services in the field of natural management from outside the country.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive report which assesses the natural and socio-economic consequences of the forest protection processes carried out and planned.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment that the State assumes financial responsibility for archaeological excavations when required by private property.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for a change in the budgetary system so that the construction of infrastructure in the transport sector is treated as investment and not as annual expenditure, in order to ensure that the adopted national transport plan also includes multiannual financing decisions.’;» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. crowns for the construction of continuous double-track sections Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer, as well as the crossing tracks for long freight trains, and the upgrading of other sections throughout the country.’;» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of ownership of NSB AS from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to merge the administration of road, rail, coastal and aviation services into one Directorate.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case on the organisation of new national road investments in a new state enterprise Riksvei SF, equivalent to Statnett SF.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the organisation of new railway investments in a new State undertaking Railway SF, equivalent to Statnett SF.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch an overall effort to develop large-scale transport projects to facilitate large international actors, using state regulation and full state funding.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to merge the different transport regulatory authorities of a State Transport Authority, which shall have total responsibility for supervision and control in the transport sector.’;» Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement measures to reduce planning time and increase planning capacity for large transport projects, including the use of total enterprise prices.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to facilitate the outsourcing of central government services.» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on how the resources of customs authorities can be better used to stop organised crime and organised smuggling at the border.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to review the limits and restrictions on entry in the event of border crossing with a view to reducing unnecessary restrictions, harmonising with neighbouring countries and simplifying the legislation.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Storting on the plan for the winding-up of all customs duties and unnecessary red tape relating to goods entering Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e5937	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to maintain a research fund according to the following model: within the State pension fund abroad, a research fund of at least 100 billion is earmarked. krones. [[SPU]] Each year the return may be equal to 4 pst. used for research purposes under the State budget. The guidelines for the use of research money are being continued, but it is assumed that green technology should be a priority area. Designation of the money shall not affect the management of the money in the SPU, but implies that the intention of the rules of action on the use of oil money is more fulfilled.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary changes to the State pension fund law, so that state pensioners who retired before 1 May 2000 are treated in the same way as other state pensioners. The entry into force of this amendment is 31 June 2012.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to provide an updated forecast of future profits in Norwegian Typing AS, as well as an assessment of possible consequences and any compensation for the loss of revenue for the voluntary activity.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain the gift enhancement scheme and to propose additional incentives to increase the proportion of private contributions to Norwegian research.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad [[SPU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6164	The President has reason to believe that the opposition parties intend to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6197	A total of 101 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 15-17, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, on the Right and Left proposal No. 97, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 18 and 19, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4-6, 10, 20-40 and 98, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 41, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 42 and 43, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 7, 11, 44 to 53 and 99, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 54 and 55, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 8, 12, 56-71 and 100, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 9, 13, 14, 72-96 and 101, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Decisions on the financial framework were taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. The following proposals are concerned: No 9, 13, 14, 72, 76 to 83, 86 to 94 and 101, from Left. 8, 12, 56–69 and 100, from Christian People's Party No. 7, 11, 44 to 51 and 99, from Right. 4, 10, 20 to 24, 27 to 29, 31 to 33, 35, 38 and 98, from the Party of Progress. 19, from the Right, Christian People's Party and Left No. 42, from Right and Left. 54 and 55, from the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 73 to 75, 84, 85, 95 and 96, from the left. Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to return to Stortinget with proposals for a legislative amendment so that self-employed persons can use minimum deductions in the same way as private individuals.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a bill on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish system of ‘expansion funds’.’» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised state budget for 2012, to investigate and promote legislative proposals for 20 p.m. tax deduction for personal long-term investments in companies up to SEK 500000.’;» [[minimum three years]] Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate termination of the duty-free arrangements for tobacco products.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: «The size is in line with the government's proposal for a decision on the levy on motor vehicles, etc. for the 2012 Budgetary Conference with the following amendments: the new point (p) of the first paragraph of Section 5 shall be replaced by the following: 95 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the duty-free import limit of goods from abroad to 500 kroner, and to establish a mechanism that regularly adjusts the amount with regard to price growth.» Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a new criterion in the Tax Fund scheme for additional reductions in R & D related to climate, environment and energy efficiency.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6313	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 70 and 71, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Code [[Customs Code]] Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose the introduction of a tax deduction and a compensation scheme for the value added tax incurred in the compulsory maintenance of privately owned saved buildings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52 and 53, from the right. Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The Government is asked to reintroduce aid for unpaid work under the Tax Fund scheme.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the provisions on the protection rate in the corporate model and the participant model are laid down in such a way as to provide a risk premium of 1 percentage point as of the 2012 income year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6357	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the right and left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce an investment fund scheme for individual enterprises, limited to 10 pst. of the profits of the year and limited to NOK 100000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6374	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that working capital is not taxed’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6391	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 6, 25, 26, 30, 34, 36, 37, 39 and 40, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce 100 pst. economically equivalent treatment for municipal and non-municipal day-care facilities. in the autumn of 2012.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the transfer of the nursery allowance to the municipality’s framework grant and to legislate on a form of financing that ensures that all kindergartens are entitled to a state-owned price based on user figures and, if applicable, on the number of children. other cost-differentiating factors.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government is asked to clarify the economic consequences for a municipality if it chooses to set a lower rate of taxation on income and wealth taxes.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how to better promote tax competition between municipalities through the determination of municipal taxpayers.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a plan to phase out the fee on boat engines.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a plan to settle the document fee.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Code [[Customs Code]] Proposal No. 37 sounds: «The government is asked to establish an arrangement in which the amount is regularly adjusted to the price increase.» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Fund scheme by removing the rule of a maximum hourly rate of 500 kroner.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce the deduction for large costs of disease as in 2004 with effect from 2013.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6454	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish a system that indexes the amounts for, respectively. self-executed and purchased R & D in the Tax Fund scheme each year, strengthen the Tax Fund scheme by removing the maximum hourly rate rule of SEK 500, strengthen the Tax Fund scheme by removing the rule that, in the case of staff and indirect costs, the number of hours for own employees is limited to a maximum of 1,850 hours per year, and evaluate how the Tax Fund scheme can be set up to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6485	There is a vote on proposal No. 97, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6502	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In 2012, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs may offer grants to municipalities which meet on a voluntary basis, up to 250 million. krones. The means shall be used for infrastructure measures capable of offsetting any adverse consequences of bundling.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to return a share of the corporation tax to the municipalities so that the proportion remains at 4.25 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6524	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 15–17, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-property tax municipalities are not penalised financially for this by the granting of discretionary means.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a case in which the relationship between tax and activity in the forestry industry is analysed in order to increase activity and resource use in Norwegian forestry.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the impact on Norwegian agriculture of increasing the limit on imports of beef and sheepmeat and lamb meat from Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland as a whole. 5 pst. and 10 pst. of the Norwegian market for these meat products.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to raise the wage and salary obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to NOK 8 000 per employee.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6557	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 18. As the President has explained, divergent proposals in the framework areas have disappeared. This applies from the framework area 18 and those that come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6807	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6820	It is votted over the frame area 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6973	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e6986	It shall be counted above the frame area 22 with Roman numerals I to XI. Here, we're doing the total tax decisions, and we're going to vote for them all together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e13040	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e13053	It is votered over Framework Area 23, with Roman numerals I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e13506	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e13523	A total of 66 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 10, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 11-13, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left Proposal No. 14, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 16, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 17-19, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 20-25, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, 26 and 27, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 28-37, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 38, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 39-46, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 47 to 66, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left In order to reduce the number of votes in this case, the President will add up to a unified voting order. This means that if minority proposals fall, then the proposers will support the vote. There has been a conference with the proposers on this in advance, and that should be all right. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47 to 66, from the left. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on income and wealth is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 15-4 is replaced by the following: Person deductions in Class 2 are given to spouses who are similar to each other for their total wealth and income. [[tax laws]] [[2]] Class 3 personal allowances are granted to lone parents of children who have not reached the age of 18 at the end of the year of income or who have older children who are genuinely dependants. Paragraphs 15 to 5 of the second paragraph are replaced by the following: The deduction is made in the tax calculation of NOK 15 000 in class 1 and NOK 30 000 in class 2 and 3 but does not take effect in the calculation of social security contributions and top taxes. [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14050	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39–46, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on income and wealth are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14297	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 17 July 1998 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: § 13-5 is deleted. [[training law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14339	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28-37, from the right. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14560	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from the right and left. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14614	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–25, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on income and wealth are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14741	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipalities are not given the opportunity to reclaim commercial activities as a basis for property taxation until it is clear whether the government will propose changes to current legislation.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14829	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14863	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14895	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e14926	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: Paragraph 2-30, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] [[3]] Guidelines on State funding of research institutes are exempt from tax liability for wealth and income from the research activities of the Institute. The asset tax exemption includes assets used primarily in the research activities of the institution. An amount corresponding to the total amount of tax exempted under the preceding sentence shall be transferred from the economic activities of the research institute to the non-economic activities of the institution. The current third term is going to be a new fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15072	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15101	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of the system of depreciation rates in line with the technological developments that have taken place in the last 10 to 15 years’.» Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case in which risk supplements and interest rates for power plants are analysed as the basis for a more transparent, long-term determination of the capitalisation rate than today.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 16-10 is replaced by the following: tax deductions for housing savings are granted at 28 per cent of the amount of savings paid. [[tax laws]] Paragraphs 16-10, third paragraph, are replaced by the following: Amounts of savings paid may not exceed NOK 25 000 per year. year of income. The total amount of savings paid in the account may not exceed NOK 300000. For spouses who are similar to each other for their total wealth and income, the amount limit in this paragraph applies to each of them. Savings from children similar to those of their parents, cf. Paragraphs 2-14 apply only to tax deductions on income which are distinctly similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15914	The President recalls that the parties in this vote have accepted to refrain from expressing primary positions when the minority proposals have not been endorsed and that they should not be used against anyone on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15925	So we're going to vote over the title of the law and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15936	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-24.ana.ud7e15948	There is no record.
