ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e45	The representatives Karin S. Woldseth and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Mr Anne Tingelstad Wøien applied for leave on 21 and 22 November to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in London. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, for Uppland County Johannes Rindal, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave on Tuesday 22 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e82	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 573]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e98	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Council of State 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e109	It is a comprehensive learning message we have for treatment, learning and community – Early efforts and good learning environments for children, young people and adults with special needs. In my opinion, the message is the most important for a very long time, for two reasons: Firstly, because the communication is fundamentally about how the Norwegian school can be better placed to complement its training mandate and contribute to social cohesion, including in meetings with students who require special attention and organisation. Secondly, because there are major challenges to the rapid increase in special education. The question is, can we make better use of the significant resources that are committed to special education, and with other organisation achieve at least equal learning outcomes? Let me begin by saying that the Committee has unanimously agreed to the continuation of the training law § 5-1, which gives students who need it the right to special education. This makes the Committee aware that the school has clear challenges with regard to adapted training. The special instruction paragraph shall continue to function as a means of securing which may apply if other measures prove inadequate. The Committee also unanimously endorses the three main strategies of the Communication: capture and follow-up the set of targeted competences in order to enhance learning outcomes, cooperation and coordination, with better implementation as objectives; The strategies highlight the challenges facing the education system and the choices needed to meet the diversity of children, young people and adults who need special assistance and support in their learning and development. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I have stressed the need not to increase disagreement and – as far as possible – to bring together the Committee behind policies on which there is, in fact, an agreement. This approach, I believe, can help the Storting to send very clear political signals to the school and school owners. Quite rightly, the position and the opposition distinguish layers at some points, but the parties agree on comments to support the main strategies of the Storing Communication. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for the constructive cooperation that has led to today's suspension. I am pleased with the Committee's emphasis on the need for all people to meet with respect and as individuals. The counselling spans the whole spectrum of learning difficulties, from the most common to the less common, social and emotional difficulties, disabilities and developmental disabilities, with a common need for some extensive special pedagogical follow-up. The size has previously dealt with the cover of the message. 6 on the organisation of Statped and the State support apparatus. The aptitude strategy is an important support element in the notification and is a prerequisite for providing qualified assistance and well-organised training services to people with different needs. I would like to stress here the importance of the State support apparatus to ensure access to specialised competences in support of the PP service and to the users concerned. Together with the PP service, the state support apparatus constitutes the competence backbone to keep the school and the teachers up in their daily work to achieve a well-adapted teaching and learning outcomes. Simplification and less bureaucracy in special education procedures are important in order for PP resources to be used more directly into school. The Ministry is concerned that competence needs to be strengthened at all stages. The Committee sees it as a particular challenge to equip the PP service with the skills required to deal with several of the most common learning difficulties. At the same time, the PP service shall contribute to the transfer of competences to the school. Further training of teachers should enable the school itself to cope better with the diversity of the student group. And if we're to succeed with early efforts, the new teacher training must give future teachers sufficient insight to detect the most common learning difficulties. The Committee configuration shows that there is a cross-political consensus on the main direction of the Communication: several students need to receive qualified early support and the competence of the PP service needs to be strengthened and become more school-based. The Committee shares the expectation that the use of resources in the PP service and Statped will need to be increasingly shifted from time-consuming and extensive procedural processes to active prevention and school guidance. The aim must be to make such assistance to teachers and students superfluous for investigations and individual decisions and to remove fewer students from the class. If instead we can channel resources into school and class, we can create a win-win situation where all the students become winners. I would also like to draw attention here to groups in need of logoing assistance. There is now an alarm from several teams about the large lack of logo pedigrees, with the consequences this has on training provision for these groups. Today is a happy day for students who need alternative and complementary communication, ASK. After many years of fighting, this group receives the legal provision that provides the necessary assistance for training, which is very much welcomed by the Committee. The Committee also supports the establishment of a multidisciplinary forum to ensure a more comprehensive follow-up of children with cochlea implants. However, the minority in the Committee, the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left consider that the notification does not go far enough for children with cochlea implants, and asks the government to propose a legal provision that gives these children the right to choose enhanced language training. That is what we see as a natural consequence of the introduction of the right to cochlea implantation in 2005. The majority of the Committee, the governmental parties, supports the proposed clarification of the conditions for the use of assistants in training. The opposition underlines the school's need for other occupational groups and believes that the bag name «assistances» can be seen as a downgrading of other highly trained staff with qualifications that the school needs and that can relieve teachers. An increasing proportion of pupils in Norway undergoing special education is of concern. Extra thought is that many do not get help until very late in school. A 2011 KS key figure report shows that the proportion of pupils receiving special education has increased from 5.9 pst. from 2006 to 8.2 pst in 2010. To put it another way: in the last four years, the proportion of special education students has increased by 39pst. During the same period, the percentage of special classes of total teacher hours has increased by 20 pst. The report also shows wide variation between municipalities as regards the proportion of pupils receiving special education. The government has an aggregate stagnation behind when the strategies of the Single European Act have the ambition to reverse these developments. The Committee supports the need for a number of pupils to be given appropriate training in the framework of the class and without having to go the path of investigation and individual decisions. If we go to Finland, we see a pattern with a strong emphasis on early work and special education in the first few years. The proportion of pupils receiving special education is highest in 1st class and lowest in 10th class. In Norway, the situation is quite the opposite, and researchers talk about ‘special educational careers’, where students do not get enough help to put the problems behind them. Another fact is that boys in Norway are strongly overrepresented among students receiving special education. It requires specific research attention. An overall opposition now proposes to launch trials in selected municipalities, where teachers and school leaders are delegated the power to decide, in consultation with the PP service, on special pedagogical measures aimed at individual students. The aim of such simplified procedures is to gain experience and to see how this can free up PP service time so that their skills can be made more accessible and benefit schools more directly. International studies have provided us with new knowledge of Norwegian student performance. The Committee considers that alarmingly many students have problems acquiring good enough basic skills early in school, and sees a link between learning difficulties, poor performance in primary school and lack of secondary education. In view of this, the Committee considers that early action needs to be given even greater importance. Many children and young people are struggling with reading problems. As basic skill, reading acts as a door opener to most other subjects. Here it is worth noting that research shows that for students with reading difficulties it can be absolutely essential to overcome the problems and crack the reading code, that the help is deployed as early as possible. In its communication, the Ministry proposes to transfer the provisions of the Training Act to the Kinderhagen Act and to receive support from the Government Parties. An overall opposition is moving towards such a move and believes that the most tidy thing would be to maintain the provisions of the training law covering all children, including those not in kindergarten. In addition, the Committee is divided into views on how the earliest language mapping should be carried out. A majority of the Committee supports the government, while a minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that it must be an objective for all children to be monitored, that it be made compulsory, that it be legalised and that it can be done either in the kindergarten or in the health centre. The Committee looks very seriously at the length of the PP service procedure and refers to the fact that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has asked the Government to consider introducing procedural deadlines in the PP service. It is very desirable that the Council of State here today can comment on how one has intended to get into a better track when it comes to that. So I just want to end by pointing out that it's said a lot about research in this big message, and there's no doubt that this field is a research field. Here we need more and better answers in order to develop a better practice in this area. Otherwise, reference is made to the proposals made by the minority in the setting. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that proposal No. 2 is not taken to vote. We believe that the comments well covered the background to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e197	The President assumes that the representative intended to address the other proposals, apart from proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox This brings up the proposals at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e200	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this issue, which is really about two options. We're dealing with the first one before summer and the second one now. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a good job, for this is something that everyone in the Committee is very concerned about, and that we have taken with the utmost seriousness. The reason is as follows: Today, the weakest students have the greatest challenges in school, those who, for various reasons, have learning difficulties and who are struggling to acquire the knowledge and skills we expect children to learn to master. Not everyone has the same starting point when they start school. Often we talk like it's just to initiate action, and then everyone will master it just as easily. It's not like that. Social background is different. Individual skills are different. The students' abilities and talents are different. And some students have such great difficulties because of disability or general learning difficulties that they depend entirely on specific help and support in teaching. Everyone in this room agrees that alarmingly many students have problems acquiring good enough basic skills, and that this is particularly evident in high school. While just 4.3 pst. by 1st class students receive special education, as many as 11.7 pst. It's in high school. This is opposite what we want and have adopted earlier in this room, that is early school effort. The Committee, acting unanimously, finds that special education does not function in accordance with its intention. It's serious when we think about all the children who fail, who get help too late, but also when we see how much resources we spend, and partly in the wrong way. The link between learning difficulties, poor performance in primary school and non-advantage is obvious, and when one of the main objectives of our school policy is to prevent apostasy, helping children with learning difficulties is early on of the highest priority. Today, legislation is ready. Special education is rights-based. It provides strong leadership from the state towards the school owner — this is to be taken seriously. Children in need of special education are entitled to do so. Let's do it. At the same time, everyone in the Education Committee is concerned that this very way of attaching additional rights to this group indirectly helps to provide students with an offer that is too late and where students lose a lot of time due to investigation because of the system’s diagnostic attack. In our comments, we point out that the Riksrevision has pointed out that the procedure is too long and that the quality of the experts’ assessments needs to be improved. This is what the whole Stortinge agrees with. We believe that the situation is unsatisfactory, and that it is up to the municipalities as well as the school owner and the State at the Ministry of Knowledge to do what is possible to reduce the processing time. One, two, three, four years without adapted education is a very long time in a child's life. If the child does not read properly in high school, it is a very demanding exercise to take back the classmates, even if special education is too full in high school. It is good to remove the requirement for half-yearly reports, because bureaucracy must be kept to a proper level. But any municipality that wants a better school should work systematically with the offer to these students to ensure that it is good enough, comes early enough, and that resource use can be defended by providing each student with better learning. There is reason to stress that a total accumulation is very impatient on behalf of this group of students. We must succeed in providing these students with a better offer, not least to provide the offer early enough, unless the state should consider stronger instruments against the school owner. In this case too, I would like to remind you of the main objectives of the Norwegian school: early efforts, prevention of drop-outs and the experience of mastering and inclusion by all students. The students in the group concerned are very different. Some people get very good teaching, others don't. However, for this group of children and young people in particular, it is important that Norwegian schools comply with these objectives. If you're different, the danger is bigger to be excluded from the community. If you have learning difficulties, you need more to experience mastering. Mastering basic skills becomes even more demanding. A course of education after primary school will then quickly become such a steep hill that leaving school before finishing will be the solution. If we're going to raise Norwegian school even more than what we're doing, this complex group is a good offer to these students in all the municipalities of the country and the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e221	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done and cooperation on the communication. The Committee as a whole has identified and agreed on a good number of joint comments. It is worth noting that no party is promoting its own proposals in the case, and the opposition has clearly highlighted through common comments and proposals that they have a common understanding of what is needed to prevent so many students from having to have special education. In such an important matter as this Communication, Learning and Community, the Progress Party believes that there is a strong and broad political consensus in the matter. However, I would argue that it does not benefit with a great deal of political consensus and decision on the Stortinget, even if the matter is never so good, unless it is ensured that the objectives of the notification are incorporated into School-Norway. In this respect, the government with the Minister of Knowledge has a great responsibility to get this done. The Progress Party also welcomes the fact that this Communication does not aim to revolutionise today’s systems, but commits to changing them, so that the system hopefully captures the students in the past and that measures are taken in good time before the student needs special education. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is as important to be aware of the removal of ineffective measures as it is to put in place effective measures so as to reduce the need for special education. The Progress Party is committed to the three strategies of the Communication, which aim to improve school learning outcomes. At the same time, we believe that in some areas the communication could be much clearer, more binding and contained more concrete measures. The Progress Party assumes that Chapter 6 of the Communication has been finalised and therefore does not comment specifically on that Chapter here. Nevertheless, what is being done here will also be relevant to Chapter 6. In order to reduce the need for special education, the Progress Party believes that it is important to have more than one type of professional group, such as caregivers and nurses, into school. For the PP service and specialised educators, we believe that their services would provide better results if they were present in schools instead of having their own office, which is in many cases far from the school and the students they are to care for. We also see that there is a need for a national school health service that is very weak in many municipalities. It is very unfair that children who are CI-operative are not allowed to choose enhanced language training. That is why we want to include a new legal paragraph in the Training Act that takes care of this. Early interventions involve early intervention for students with problems. That is why we want a pilot project to be launched in which, in consultation with the school, PPT is allowed to apply special pedagogical measures for individual students who need it. This may save students a long waiting period where nothing is done in relation to the necessary measures. In order to capture and deploy measures, the Progress Party considers that language mapping, not voluntary, should be mandatory for all children after they have reached the age of three. We believe that mandatory monitoring, where action is taken, will make the child more school-ready. Research shows that School-Norway has been characterized by a waiting-and-see attitude for a long time. In addition, students in Norwegian school have received some false and kind feedback on their school performance. The party of progress is therefore pleased that this can now be in the process of being phased out and that this is not the way to characterise the school in the future. Today, almost 90,000 primary school students in Norway are called ‘weak readers’, which means that their children are so poor that they strive to cope with school. It goes without saying that they want to work with further training and jobs. This is alarming. International research shows that 75 000 of these children could have been helped, provided that measures had been implemented from 1st to 3rd grade. The research is supported by reader Torleiv Höien, who otherwise established centres for reading research in Stavanger. It is worth noting that despite the fact that for many years Norway has made early efforts as a target, it appears that special education has increased considerably and mostly at the top class stages. This is in stark contrast to what the Education Directorate stated in 2006, namely that Norway has a lot to learn from Finland in terms of support and special education. Students are tested at school and, unlike in Norway, no single decision is required to apply support measures, and teachers use the precautionary principle and take action rather than wait and see if things improve. This is in the same street as the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. It is established that early help is good help. What our students meet with is, among other things, toll-aid provided by unskilled workers. It is pointed out from many quarters that it works against its purpose to get students to incorporate good work practices, and that parents become less involved in the child’s schoolwork. The party of progress will be clear that this is not good enough. This is why we believe that schools themselves should have the opportunity to take action where they feel there is a need. In addition to the long wait to get to the PPT, many teachers wait too long before they contact the PPT. The fact that many teachers do not have the skills to detect and lift weak students means that the Progress Party will again show the importance of continuing training of teachers, where new and important research-based knowledge becomes part of the education process, so that it can be used in teaching as soon as possible. According to the findings made by Professor Thomas Nordahl at the Hedmark High School, approx. 40 pst. by those providing special education, unskilled assistants. If this continues, many of our students will still face unnecessary challenges later in life. It is therefore important to put in place legislation that is clear on what and what tasks assistants can and should perform. In connection with this message, I also think that there is room for entering Reform 94, where the so-called carrybar is the student's responsibility for own learning. According to research.no on 15 November of this year – in other words, completely smoking fresh – Aud Toril Meland, first amanuensis at the University of Stavanger, has written a doctoral thesis on responsibility for his own learning. The thesis shows that only one third of the students she studied were able to take responsibility for her own learning. It was also found that the students are tired of hearing the pedagogical slogan, and many students called for the teacher's responsibility to teach them. The students could, for example: get three weeks to solve a larger problem, but they were unable to dispose of this time in a good way. Instead, time was spent on things other than schoolwork, and the more time the students got, the worse it got. The students felt that they were left too much to themselves. Some students felt neglected when they could sit and chat on the Internet an hour without the teacher responding. In addition, the temptation to cheat was great – we're just sitting in school without doing anything anyway. This does not promise well, nor do the teachers, who say that responsibility for their own learning leads to a large amount of extra work. They must document student interviews and tests, attend mandatory meetings and fill out several school management forms. This is a time that could have been used for student-oriented work, but now goes to documentation, which may not have been so necessary. The Progress Party therefore believes that reform 94 needs to be evaluated to see whether it meets expectations or whether it is involved in creating the need for even more special education for students. The Education Act gives children both the right and the obligation to go to school, but every fourth child in a child welfare institution does not. Of child-restraint children, 24 pst is going on. not in school at all, and 25 pst. children consider that adults do not encourage them to go to school. The Party considers that it is important to exercise active control in order to ensure that county councils fulfil their obligations in relation to children's protection, and that the same requirements and opportunities are provided to other school pupils as far as possible. It is again important to stress that the measures in the Communication must be followed up and become part of the Norwegian school everyday life if our students are to benefit from the many good solutions provided in the Communication. I want to underline again the importance of getting a lot of what doesn't work, because in fact, there's a lot of research that shows what works -- it's also research that shows what doesn't work. We have to do this much more actively. So it's very important that what we decide in this room comes out to School Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e263	There will always be kids in Norwegian school who need more help and support than others. I initially want to stay a little bit with the word ‘special education’ and what it holds. We have kids who get special education, who have difficulty reading and writing, we have kids with disabilities, such as: have visual or auditory impairment or hearing loss, we have young people with small or large mobility disabilities, young people with behavioural disabilities, young people with a high or low degree of autism, and others with many different disabilities or disabilities at the same time. I stress this because I think it is essential to look at how different the help needs are, when we talk about special education. We have seen in recent years that the need for special education is increasing as the students get older. Most of us need special education at the 10th stage. It's probably natural that there may be an increasing need for help for some students as one evolves and matures, but it seems unnatural that we spend so much resources so late in school. This indicates that we haven't done what we're going to do in the early years of school. On Monday this week, I attended Harestua Kinder- und Jugendschule. The school is one of the primary schools in Hadeland that participates in the Education Directorate’s major project Learning Environment Hadeland. The school could tell that they had had up to 15 pst. Special education at school — and this was thought to be high numbers. The teachers were somewhat frustrated by the need to wait for the PP service with their actions and took action. They put in some extra effort early in school, among others. have employed a reading assistant. The school use figures for special education have now dropped to 7 pst. They realize that they're going to reach approx. 3-4 pst., which they consider to be a fairly normal level. This shows that there are opportunities to take action at school that can improve the situation of many without completely turning the systems upside down. There are opportunities within the framework of adapted training in the Training Act before the needs of pupils for special education may be explored by the PPT. But it requires a steady and clear school management, it requires that there are competent teachers at the school, and that there are opportunities to dispose of both hours and staff in a good way. In practical school life, the use of assistants is still too high. The assistants do an excellent job in many cases and are invaluable for the work at school, but the assistant cannot replace the teacher or the special teacher. It is therefore appropriate that the notification emphasises that the assistants should not be placed in a situation where they are entrusted with the responsibility of managing the training or are responsible for special education. It's not satisfying either for the kids, for the assistants or for the parents. The responsibility must lie with the teaching staff. So we know that kids are different. So a lot of people may just need a little extra help in some situations to avoid getting hung up on and never be able to take back their jammies or take out their potential at the right time. Others will need help continuously. It is therefore positive that a centre for the learning environment and behavioural research is now set up and will take action to increase the competence of the PP service. The different need for assistance is also an argument that the need for feedback and reporting is different. It is important that the Ministry of Communication underlines the importance of documenting realistic targets. In addition, it is important to specify and systematise measures so that one can see if one has achieved the objectives in retrospect. It is also a prerequisite if one comes to a point where one believes that the need for extra arrangements through special education is no longer present. We know that many teachers already today believe that there is too much time for reporting, which they would like to use to prepare and teach. Therefore, it is important that there is a reasonable balance between the need for reporting, the need to have good follow-up procedures. It is therefore good to see that the department has dared to take steps to reduce reporting requirements. There will always be someone who thinks it is unwise, but there should be the quality of the reports being written, as well as the daily, well-considered follow-up and work in school that is most important. Security must be the most important key to meeting parents who have children in need of help. The children are the dearest we have, and children who need extra help will instinctively follow up extra well. Many parents also have heavy care tasks, so we have to make sure that we help to facilitate the systems so that they can be trusted. There must be good and predictable dialogue, communication and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e289	If we're going to achieve the same goal, being treated like one of the most unfair things that exists, because we're so different. This important communication on special school education has been largely supported by an overall committee. I think that is very important in a demanding and difficult field. I want to focus most on the areas where the Christian People's Party has been especially concerned about that there should be a difference. In connection with the Communication on Quality in Kindergarten, which was discussed in the Family and Culture Committee, the Christian People's Party opposed moving language mapping from health centres to kindergartens. We also do that in connection with this message. We believe that this could contribute to the fact that the group that we really want to reach is not caught up and given an offer of follow-up. It is underlined in the State budget, where the government itself does not expect that more than 10 pst. of the 2-year-olds with cash support will use kindergarten. We are also critical of requirements for monitoring and documentation that can remove educators from what they are present for in kindergarten, namely working directly with children. Experience in Denmark has shown that an unnecessary amount of time is spent on monitoring children who do not need any special follow-up at all, rather than following up the children who need it. Language mapping can guide kindergarten in a school-based direction instead of strengthening kindergarten as the playground for learning through play. The Christian People's Party also opposes the proposal to transfer the provisions of the Training Act relating to children under school age to the Children's Hospital Act. It is essential that the provisions cover all children, and there will still be a need for measures, such as: language measures, even outside the nursery. By maintaining it in existing legislation, municipalities will still be able to ask for kindergartens to be responsible for the professional arrangements. We also share the concern of the KS that this could complicate the procedure because one now has to deal with two legislations. For the first time in this government's history, I'm going to commend the government on how they talk about home-school cooperation. For one time and another, it's like music to read parts of the message – I quote: ‘Research-based knowledge of the role of parents in school performance gives good arguments that the school should cooperate closely with parents in initial training. Nordahl emphasises that the cooperation relationship with home school is a significant contribution to the school's learning environment. Hattie further says that parents' expectations for school performance have the greatest impact on students' motivation and effort; the parents' interest in school work at home and at school, teaching help and dialogue on school progress follow. [[...]] This means much more than other factors in the family, such as socio-economic status. Hattie also points out that many parents are alienated from school because they do not understand the language of the school. Therefore, school and home must speak the same language and convey the same expectations; so that students do not live in two worlds." Think if this could have been followed! From what the message says, there should be a completely different effort to put in place a solid home-school collaboration, for the benefit of vulnerable students. In order to create good inclusion and a better learning environment for students with special needs, a student must also work with whole student groups. Strengthening competence in organisational development is a crucial contribution to prevention and thus also a contribution to reducing the large-scale emergence of pupils with special needs. In municipalities, there are very little other bodies or professionals than the PPT that can help schools in the development of the learning environment. The Communication underlines four expectations of the PP service, including ‘Establishment 2: the PP service works prevention’. I believe that if PPT's work in schools is only related to students with special needs, they will never be in the position to contribute to learning environment development in general. Inclusion learning environments cannot be built solely on the basis of pupils with special school rights. The PPT should also be responsible for helping schools improve their learning environments in general. In developing the learning environment, schools need help from professionals who know the school but are not part of it. Both school management and classroom teachers need such a constructive critical look from the outside. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has with the Left, proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e316	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e319	Today's theme is among the most important issues we have in Norwegian school, and is something that might have needed even more radical grip than those we see in the message we are handling today. However, on the basis of today's assumptions and on the basis of today's access to professionals, the Left also agrees with the measures put forward by the government, on whether we have major challenges in terms of both procedural deadlines and access to the right professionals. Because if we were to take a really radical approach to special education, we would have needed a much larger spread and a much larger access to just special-pedagogues. We would have had specialised educators who had been placed much closer out in Norwegian schools, to ensure the legal security of children without having to be guaranteed by bureaucratic rights. That's why I'm actually a little sorry that we're not getting a majority in favour of the proposal to try out new schemes and new ways to ensure students' legal certainty by being able to move resources down to each school. Today, we have a bureaucratic right — a right to a certain bureaucracy, really — that is linked to the school system in a way that makes us see that there is something that children in the first class have little access to, while children in the 10th class have a lot of access to. I don't think we're going to have anything dramatic done with this field until we get the pyramid turned around, until we really get to turn the cancers down to a first-class effort, and then the right must not be linked to bureaucracy, but be linked to professional expertise/resource. So to comment on some single points here. Firstly, the role of the assistants. It's obvious that we need more disciplines into Norwegian school, but what we've had, that unskilled – and I think unskilled – are going to take the kids who have the biggest learning challenges, is a wrong development. The fact that we have non-pedagogues who are going to take on major pedagogical challenges is a wrong development. It also doesn't always help to have educators if you have kids with great learning difficulties. I think I mentioned the example before, a Norwegian teacher I talked to, who I think was a really good Norwegian teacher for the 9th grade. But when you're assigned an autist, one who has strong autism, it doesn't help to be a really good Norwegian teacher. Then you actually need to know what the handicap is, and how it affects learning. I think that many other good educators have such great educational challenges without having professional support, is frustrating for both the student and the teacher. I think that the school health service is an important step also to help special education in Norwegian school, because having learning difficulties can be based on a lot of different things, even in things that maybe the school health service is most competent to sort out. So a little comment in relation to the cochlea implant, where the left is on a proposal, but I need to explain it. For us, it is important that there is a ‘also’ in that proposal. For us, it's important to admit that the kids who get an implant don't become quite the usual hearing child. It's not like this implant can do everything quite well again. These children will always be bilingual, but then they must be given the right to be bilingual, then they must have the right to have both the sign language and the language spoken. So I'm going to use the last few seconds to say a little bit about mapping. I'm afraid we're now making new bureaucratic routines, and we're also using good educators to do monitoring that's not needed. Anyone who knows what a proper language mapping actually means knows that it's a big job. A pedagogue in a Norwegian kindergarten to do a proper, thorough language survey of a child knows how important and important that task is. Then I want that task to be applied to the kids who need it, and not to the kids who really don't need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e330	I am very pleased that the committee is so united about what is the most important grip in this big message. I think that's a very important value to take forward, when some of those who have the greatest challenges in terms of learning are now getting a better offer. I want to start with the big picture, because the setting we are dealing with today merges into the range of important decision-making decisions in Norway on the way to a more inclusive school. In Norway, all children are entitled to attend the community school. But an inclusive school means not only a school where all children have the right to be, but where all children have the right to learn. A key message in the big message Learning and community is that diversity is the normal thing in school. Or like Marte W. Goksøhr, known among others. From visiting here in the Storting, said, "All people are different." That's the truth! We have to equip the school with plenty of competent enough teachers to handle variation between students. In addition, municipalities must have a good PPT and ensure good interaction between all services related to children and young people. Then schools and municipalities must be able to rely on a competent and bystander Statped when there is a need for special skills that cannot be expected to be present at municipal or school level. Research environments, university and higher education environments need to interact with the field of practice to ensure that new knowledge benefits students, and to ensure that we have the top competence we need. If we get better skills and interaction between the different services, children can get help in the past, so that we can avoid the frustrating dance that not least many parents of children with different needs tell us about, when they become aware that they have a child with some particular challenges in e.g.: language development when in kindergarten or other learning difficulties at school. Parents shall not have to be coordinators between municipal services and shall not feel the need to be lawyers to ensure that their children are granted their rights to good training. Developments in the use of special education have been an important topic in recent years. Both an increasing scale and that so many get help far up in the class steps, there has been reason to be concerned about. The use of assistants in special education is another theme. In this Communication, we recognise the importance of special education and look at what is needed to ensure that the results are as good as possible for the students. It is not an objective in itself to reduce special education, but it is an objective to ensure better that schools work to reduce the need for special education and that special education is given in such a way as to have a good effect. My ambition is that everyone should have equal opportunities to succeed in the education system. This is not something we can achieve once and for all and look at as a work we're done with. This is a running fight that we always have to keep going. It is a normal situation that 20–25 per cent of children, young people and adults will need help and support in training, continuously or over a short period of time – this concludes the Mid-Lineg Committee. The main intervention in the notification is to improve the education system in capturing and following up those who need help and support. The responsibility for this shall not be left to the individual teacher. This is a collective task for which the whole education system must take responsibility. So the message is so clear that we need to build a team around the teacher. The kindergarten provides a unique opportunity to capture and follow up. 89 pst. children aged one to five years are in kindergarten, and almost all five-year-olds are in kindergarten before they start school. It gives kindergarten a unique opportunity to get acquainted with children over time. Kindergarten is the best area for early interventions and for following up children in need of language stimulation. Good tools and skills are needed in the staff. The message indicates that we need to ensure that all children receive an offer of language screening in kindergarten. Monitoring is only one tool and forms a small part of the overall language work. We are now working to ensure the quality of language mapping tools used in kindergartens, and a guide to kindergartens is to be developed. Various measures of competence have helped to strengthen staff’s competence in the language environment and language stimulation. We have also proposed moving the provisions of the Training Act relating to children under the age of compulsory training from the Training Act to the Kinderhagen Act. The purpose of this is to bring together the whole educational provision of the children in the kindergarten law. The special educational offer will be seen in the context of the other provisions of the Kindergarten Act on the needs and rights of children. We believe that this is an important part of stressing the responsibilities of kindergarten in this context. The big news is very clear that everyone has the right to be part of a community, that there is a lot of learning in the community, and that we're going to work to make the community an even better learning venue for everyone. To achieve this, we need to be better aware that the diversity of children and young people is as varied as that of society. Youth is not like older people in society. The communication is therefore based on a broad knowledge view, a broad approach to learning, a broad normal concept and the belief that early efforts, variation and adaptation will provide training which initially takes the most advantage. The government has worked a lot to make the regular training more inclusive. The most important thing in this big message is that we suggest that the brother of special education should arrive early. We're worried about a development there over 11 pst. of the 10th stage pupils receive special education, while 4.3 pst. receive first stage special training. This can be both a sign that learning difficulties can be exacerbated through primary school and that teachers view special education as a relief mechanism. This I'm very concerned that we're going to turn around. It is also essential that teachers have the skills to adapt their training. This is precisely what the new primary school teacher training focuses on. It is also important to stress that although the boundaries between general education and special education have become more fluid, we need the special pedagogical competence more than ever to be able to have this interaction between different professions. The teacher is the most important success factor for the success of the students, but the teacher needs support players to succeed. We want the PP service closer in kindergartens and schools. I have the following four expectations for the development of the service: The PP service shall be available and contribute to its entirety and coherence. We want a shorter procedure time and a ‘lime’ between kindergartens and school and municipal and state services. We want the PP service to work preventively, that is. help kindergartens and schools get in front of the problems. The PP service shall contribute to early work in kindergarten and school and help schools to have good systems for catching up and following up in kindergarten and early years. The PP service shall be a professionally competent service in all municipalities and counties. The PP service has a high level of formal competence today, but we want it to be more practical. Training of specialised educators is an important issue precisely to be able to do this work better. We have e.g. logo horses, visual educators, behavioral experts or learning difficulties of different kinds, and we want to reinforce this. But we also want to set up an expert group to analyse the needs and review the education we have, because we have just a little too poor an overview of where we are lacking competence in the future. We also need to make sure that we get better research into how to set up special education in order to ensure that we get good results. Finally, I would like to sum up that in this big message we are using three strategies to improve training for children, young people and adults with special needs. We need to catch up and follow up, because we don't know in advance which children, young people and adults need help and support. Then the kindergarten and school have to have systems both to catch them up and then follow them up. We need to target skills and strengthen learning outcomes, we need to cooperate and coordinate for better services, and we need to make sure that parents themselves do not have to be the ones coordinating services for their children. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. It provides a good basis for implementing the measures contained in this Communication, and it has been 13 years since the last time the Storting dealt with a notification on special education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e391	The school should become a better place to learn, not just a place to be. That's good. The doctoral thesis that I referred to in my post showed that students are tired of the slogan ‘responsible for their own learning’. The students ask where the teacher's responsibility is. Students feel left to themselves, and the hours are used for things quite different from school work. For teachers, responsibility for own learning leads to a large amount of extra work. My question is: will the Council of State take a review of Reform 94 to see if it is working properly, or whether it is simply involved in producing more students for special education, in which we would prefer to have as little as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e400	This is a very important issue. If that's how you perceive the concept of 'own learning responsibility' as you throw the students out with a PC and then they're going to be fine, then it's a cartoon of what I think was meant to be. But it may be that some students – cf. the study to which the representative refers has been left too much to himself, with insufficient structure and insufficient guidance. What is demanding for good educators is to present challenges at different age levels. Gradually, young people must be prepared to take more responsibility for their own schoolwork and their own learning, but I fully agree with the representative that it is not about the teacher giving up or leaving responsibility for learning to the student himself. It's about supporting the student in a maturation process, where you have to take more responsibility for yourself. But very much of what we're discussing, for example. when it comes to classroom management, it is precisely about how to guide students into a good learning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e405	I hope that there is no indication of the level of ambition when the Council of State calls the work on special education a ‘running’ work that we must keep ‘going’. But it is also the case that the Council of State is talking about the objective of reducing the scope of special education, and that it is going to have a good effect – an intention that I believe a joint committee is behind the Council of State. [[Laughter]] But then one of the things that the Midlyng Committee says is that it will remove the legal base for special education. No one in the committee is proposing today, but the four parties in the opposition are proposing – in proposal No. 1 – to allow municipalities to implement, to a very limited extent, the possibility of allowing the PP service to enter the school and that, under the Training Act, municipalities follow up this work. Is it possible for the Council of State to explain whether, at a later stage, it will open up this type of project?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e414	It has been very important in this work to ensure that those who are parents, or other relatives, and who have children with special needs do not experience undue uncertainty as to their rights. Remember, here are a lot of parents who have had long struggles for their children to have the same rights as everyone else's children. That is why I have been very concerned that we should not spread concerns about what kind of right you have to have in relation to special education. I am very concerned about the closeness of the PP service in schools, and it is also emphasised in the Communication and in the Committee's recommendation that schools should not wait for a child to have an investigation before taking special action. They have to do it right away. It's about catching up and following up, so it's a slightly different strategy than the representative Tord Lien refers to. Then we'll see if it works, and then we'll have to follow it all the way – running and walking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e421	I'll follow up where Tord Lien left off. I think that if you're really going to turn this pyramid around, and if you're going to bring down the amount of processing and use the resources of the device that's sitting close to the students and in close interaction with the school, we have to try out some alternative ways to do it. Then we have proposed that a selected number of schools and municipalities really try to put those who are closest to the student, to make those decisions and to put the effort as early as possible. Is it really that the Council of States can't imagine such attempts? Is it not important to gain experience before making any further large-scale changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e428	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Aspaker, who has been the case rapporteur for this vote. I think it is a great assurance that there is such a broad consensus on the main concepts of special education. So the question is, how do we now gain experience in different ways of working to be able to reverse the pyramid? We want special pedagogical skills to be available so early for those who have some challenges, that we can prevent many learning difficulties later, and not least many experiences of failure, which cause children to lose confidence, shrink, stay away, learn less than they really have the potential to. The reason why I have so far not supported the proposal that comes from the minority is that it will approach a number of issues that concern what kind of rights parents have and that it is a difficult area to try on. I will not deny that there is something that can be assessed at a later stage, but I believe that there are now many concrete, good proposals in this communication that are just about how we should acquire the competence of the children in the past. There is also a very clear commitment for municipalities and schools not to wait for investigations of the individual child, but to initiate action once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e437	I will change the theme to the long process times in the PP service. It is a well-known matter that the Riksrevision has addressed intriguing criticism of the system. The chairman of the committee, Marianne Aasen, was involved in his statement, and several others have been involved in the same. In the light of the serious findings made, a Joint Control and Constitutional Committee unanimously called on the government to put procedural time limits into the system. When the government does not want to do so, I wonder: what is the Council of State's strategy to ensure that you get a reasonable trial period that is not on direct collision courses with getting early action and making sure that the children who really need it get the help they need as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e446	Of course, I have noticed carefully what the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has said about this, and there is serious criticism coming from the Riksrevision regarding waiting time. I also note the commitment of an overall committee to procedural times. Now I want to wait and see if we can get where we want with this big message – much closer to much earlier in view of the help and support that children with special challenges need – and then I will monitor that situation very carefully. It is absolutely relevant to consider whether to strengthen the instruments if we do not see rapid improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e453	I understand that in the government's dream world, all children go to kindergarten. But I also note that the government realizes that even if they remove the cash support for the two-year-olds, there will still be some children who do not go to kindergarten. These are the ones I feel quite concerned about regarding the two steps that we are doing today, namely moving language mapping from health centre to kindergarten, and also that all the measures that will apply to children in that group are moved out of the Training Act and are covered by the Children's Court Act. The most vulnerable children, which may need to be reached early, will be reached by a meeting at the health centre. Today it works very well that the kindergarten has a professional responsibility, but that you also have an offer for children who do not go to kindergarten. Will the Council of State take initiatives so that we do not now risk excluding the most vulnerable children from these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e460	The fact that we move the provision on special pedagogics to the kindergarten law does not mean that there are any children who lose their rights. It's the other way around. This means that we underline the responsibility of kindergartens for children with special needs. Children in kindergarten may have the opportunity to be observed by competent pedagogical staff in their language development in completely natural situations. Kindergarten has a wide range of measures that they can take, which are not special education but are language stimulation. Then it's true, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen says, that all children don't go to kindergarten. Of course, we also need an opportunity to discover those who have language difficulties at the health centre. But remember, it will be in a sentence that is quite foreign to many children. I've had children with me at the health centre who crawl like a fox all the other waking hours of the day, but who just shut up the 20 minutes they were at the health centre. So here we have to make sure that we use the kindergarten for what they're good at, but at the same time we don't forget those who don't go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e468	I want to use the opportunity to refresh, and possibly get an answer to, the first question I had, whether the Minister will take some action to carry out an evaluation of Reform 94. I would also like to ask questions about the PPT and the challenge there, because the Minister of Knowledge does not see that it is a good solution to get a pilot project out in School-Norway where the PPT is directly linked to the schools, also considering that there are actually quite large distances in Norway's country today. I know about cases where our professionals spend more time driving in cars to and from, than they spend doing the task they really can and are trained for, and where we really need them, like for the students. I also want to refer to Finland, where it turns out it is a very good measure, and it seems very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e475	I think I understood where the question would come from. First of all, we must not believe that the only specialist teacher's competence within the education system is in the PP service. In fact, there is a small proportion of those who work in the PP service, who are special educators. But luckily, it's like that. 15 000 teachers in school have special pedagogical skills. So we just have to make sure that we don't draw a picture of that in the case of specialty pedagogues, we've all gathered in the PP service, and then they drive around in the car, and then they happen to be in some school. What we want with the PP service is that they should be the professional community that supports school development, which contributes to prevention, but that they should also relate to school competence. I think we agree on the main intention here, namely to get the PP service closer at school and closer to school development, even though we do not agree with one of the opposition's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e484	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e487	A good school is absolutely essential for the freedom of individuals to choose their own lives, and a good school is absolutely essential for us as a society to mannify the welfare state and ensure future value creation. Let me give you one example: a little later today, the government's Northern Region Message will be presented. As a nation, our attention is directed northwards and towards the opportunities that exist there. The Northern Region bet is something that will benefit the whole country. At the same time, the northern part of the country has a perfectly legitimate expectation that in the north gas, minerals and fish will give up activity and give up in the north. But to succeed in that, it is absolutely essential that Finnish and Nordic countries have the skills to take up the task. Then it's alarming that the dropout in high school is high, and the highest in the country in just North Norway. Nevertheless, failure is not an extraordinary nordic problem. It is too high on a national basis, but it affects social and geographical differences. That's why it's important that we have ambitions on behalf of all students, no matter what background, baggage or assumptions they come to school with. I am very pleased with the progress we are now seeing in the results in Norwegian school, as it is. is expressed in the PISA study. But together with teachers, school leaders, parents, students and local politicians, we have to go further. We need to lay the foundation for more and better implementation as children start in kindergarten or in school. I want to commend the Minister of Knowledge on her clear focus on early action. Obviously, it's better to put all the cloths to teach your children to read and calculate when they're going, instead of waiting and watching and putting in special education when it's cut for real. Today is too late. ‘Everything can be repaired’, it is called in a song – but it becomes more difficult the longer you wait. It makes a lot of demands on the teacher. Then it is important that the teacher has done what is required: a team of school leaders who have time and surplus to develop the school, with several groups of professionals who can support the teaching process, with assistants who do not take over the pedagogical tasks but who can help with the many practical tasks of school everyday life, and not least, a close-up PP service, which helps to work prevention and which can take action quickly. Then it is essential that school leaders, teachers and special educators spend their time on learning. Of course, we need to maintain the legal certainty of the students. But we who are gathered in this room must be self-critical as to what documentation requirements and other expectations we have for school, which steal time and energy from education. For a while, the Minister of Knowledge began the hunt for time thieves. I am very pleased that in this communication as well, she also alerts measures to reduce the processing time and simplify the rules of procedure for special education. These are things we want more of. It is alarming to meet teachers who say that they spend so much time on other tasks that they feel that they lack time to prepare, that education has to be temporarily taken on the job, and that they also have too little time to follow up the individual student. If we succeed in catching even more time thieves, it will obviously benefit the education and the students and certainly also help the teachers to stay where we want them to be, that is, in school. I trust that the Minister of Knowledge keeps the work going on, but if we are to continue to develop the school, it also demands that many others participate and contribute. It is important that we have committed local politicians and state politicians, and it is essential that the cooperation between home and school works well, as Dagrun Eriksen very precisely came into his article. Here I believe that we should have an open view of how this can develop further, so that parents are safe in their role towards a school that is completely different from the school they went to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e502	School policies and social policies are intertwined. One does not get a school permeated by good values such as inclusion, tolerance and democracy about society otherwise does not live by such values. One does not get a society that values diversity and diversity, if the school does not value the same values, but chooses to become an exclusive arena that primarily honors them so-called schooly, obedient and obligatory at all times. One does not get a society characterized by ‘connecting’ if the school more ‘decouples’, to use a pair of concepts that Professor Jon-Roar Bjørkold uses in, among others. The book says "Music Man." ‘Are you playable?’ asks the same Jon-Roar Bjørkold in his book. Isn't it exactly what a good school and a good society should have as an ambition – to get us all connected, to make us all playable? This ambition is particularly visible, fortunately, in the Midlyng selection and in this setting. Here I refer to the government's ambition that we should use the education system to compensate for social inequalities. It's a contribution to making us all online. We have to use positive discrimination, it is said. This is a bold and offensive language that I like to use, just to get the basic point, that we should actively take into account each individual's different assumptions and abilities. Different people shall be given equal opportunities; they shall come with them and be connected independently of residence, in order to use the slogan of three key political parties in the political landscape. Everyone is basically playable and wants to be playable. Then we have to have a school that is then organized. It is demanding — several have been in a good way — to see them and what needs to be seen, and not least together to find out what is a good training situation for the individual. It's putting this into life and making it live in the least bureaucratic way possible. It's about being close to, being early on, and not least about being competent. Here we are going to interact with professionals, students and parents, who are demanding for many reasons, including: Because we're operating here in a landscape where a bunch of rights and obligations are going to be in place. Some professional disagreements tend to make this extra demanding. So it's well described by several what's the situation today. It's obviously problematic in a lot of ways. At the same time, in this debate, as in other debates we have in this Chamber, it is important to see that there are many out there who have developed good practice. Anne Tingelstad Wøien, among others, inside it in its post. I am very pleased that this setting so fundamentally emphasizes that there should be an exception if in the event that we have to take students out and out of the community. The main action here shall be training in the community. But sometimes it may be right to take someone out, to put in a special measure, to bring people back to the community. I believe that the New GIV is a good example of the fact that it is right for a shorter period to take people out, and then to give them an opportunity to continue the rest of their training course in the community. I'm very happy that the opposition parties agree with this principle, because I sometimes think in other debates that they show a little too much eagerness to take people out. Then it's like the so-called schoolgirls who are in focus. So I appreciate that we're pretty much in agreement here that it's not going to happen in this case. So I think that's one point -- and that's where we have to take some marine criticism -- that we could put something more emphasis on. It is that, fortunately, the development of education technology is now ripping, among other things. to meet those who have learning difficulties associated with reading. Here the exciting things happen, which not only come to those who have so-called special needs, meet. It's also a development that can be of use to all groupings, which shows that there are things happening here that can make it easier to do the teaching in the community, sail around it in the classes sitting people with slightly different needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e517	Often when you stand here, it is an obligation to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. It is not in this case. I would like to stress, as my colleague Thorsen did, that this process has been conducted in an excellent way by the representative of Aspaker. This issue is about students with learning challenges – unfortunately to some extent about those students with learning challenges that are so big that they come under a law clause on that very thing. Even though they're now under a law clause, it's a very small homogeneous group we're talking about. It's everything from children with acquired brain damage, children with hearing and visual impairment and children with various other congenital and appropriate diagnostics. So it's a very small homogeneous group. That's what I think it's important to bring with me when we're discussing this. It might sound like there's one, very easily defined student group we're talking about. It's not. But it's like over 10 pst., about 11 pst., of all the students who are in the 10th grade in the Norwegian primary school, have ended up under a law paragraph and received special education. In this context, there's reason to remind you that 16 pst. of the same students cannot read well enough to acquire knowledge on their own after school. So we know there's some overlap, but the overlap isn't total. So there's a lot of these students who work hard at school, but who don't come under any law. They will be slightly affected by what we are doing here today, unless we are able to release some resources as a result of dealing with this matter. That is why I am so pleased that the Council of State says that today it is not stated that this is the final document for the job of special education, but that there is a process that the Council of State will follow closely and possibly come back to Stortinget with evaluation and further follow-up of the law. I think that's absolutely necessary. These students who do not receive special education need to be trained in some way. It's also true, as the representative Hagen was about, to a very large extent, those who are not so motivated for school because it's too easy for them. But not least those who are struggling but who are not currently entitled to special education. We use 17 pst. of all funds in the Norwegian primary school for special education. The reasons can be many. There is no doubt that resource-intensive and demanding parents, who do not accept that their children learn below average, are one reason. I think we have to be clear enough to say that. But then I think we also have to look after some of the challenges of regular training. The Council of State said that she and the government are engaged in regular training and that it should become inclusive. I'm not quite sure if I recognize myself in that picture. But then the council said something that I totally agree with: maybe we're going to have to learn more in high school. That's where I think the Council of State is about something very basic. I don't think this is just about legal work and decisions in Stortinget. It is also about attitudes — accepted for the absence of children from learning. It's about the acceptance that special boys are so immature – one, two, three years behind, and it's all right and it's going to be all right, little friend, when you get in the fourth, fifth or sixth grade. And then it doesn't. We have a weak feedback culture in the Norwegian school, and as many people have been in it, including the case rapporteur, we know that there is a relatively large amount of bureaucracy when you are getting a warrant for special education. I don't really like the big-time representatives riding the keppester, but I'm going to do it anyway, because there are some things like this: there are open classrooms, there's responsibility for your own learning, and there's widespread use of group work. This applies in particular to group work in this context. The strong students know that if they do the job, they get good quality, and if they are placed with the weak students in the group, the weak students don't learn anything, and the strong students have the learning to themselves. It's unfair. The goal must be less paragraphs, more student-oriented work, less paper and more organized teaching. Like the representative of Aspaker and Skei Grande, I think it is a little sad that we are not going to be slightly more satisfied with the proposal that is being voted on today, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e536	Early efforts start early, and one of the places where we meet a large number of Norwegian children — and have met more and more children in recent years — is very early, in kindergarten. Kindergarten and gender equality policy is one of the reasons why I am very happy that we are red-green who govern. In their alternative budget, the Right shows that they threaten the modern family when they increase the nursery price and continue the cash support for two-year-olds. This means less equality, less integration and fewer children enjoying kindergarten. They simply continue the Bondevik II government policy for several women back to the kitchen bench. This government has had a policy for full child care coverage, equality and more women in work, and that is important for several reasons. Without women in work, the competitiveness of our country would be significantly impaired, but it is also important for the children. Kindergarten is an important place for children's learning. It plays a major and active role in prevention and early intervention. Kindergarten can almost be better than anyone else — preferably in combination with home and parents — to become familiar with and follow up on the individual child over time. Kindergarten is the best place to follow up on children who need help to stimulate language and development. During the treatment of St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009, Kinderhagen quality, the opposition had a rather different position. They have simply arrived a little after today in this setting. There, the members of the Committee from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘At best, such mandatory language testing is wasted resources. Children in need of follow-up will in most cases receive extra time and follow-up in today’s kindergartens, where resources are not wasted on testing all children.’ They also put forward a proposal: ‘The government is not asking for all kindergartens to offer language mapping at the age of three.’ I think this is a little funny, but I'm glad that the opposition has now perhaps agreed with itself, and that they come after the government's policy in this area. I also think it is good that all children should now receive an offer for language mapping in the kindergarten. This is important for us to be able to get to the development and early effort that we are all concerned with doing. The opposition seems to have a notion that the best place to reach children is four-year control. I'm not against children being tested there, but I can't see why it's being drawn out as a more accurate offer than that language mapping, and not least that follow-up, which can happen in kindergarten. We also have COSTRA numbers that show that 95 pst. by four-year-olds, up to four-year-olds met at the health centre in 2009, while 97 pst. by four-year-olds, there is a children's gardening space. Several four-year-olds are therefore reached in kindergarten, and with the government's bet on free core time also several of the children who really need it the most. It is not a goal in itself that we should monitor, but with monitoring, we can achieve early detection of children with a particular need for language stimulation, and that all employees in kindergartens are provided with knowledge that will enable them to facilitate each child. I agree with Trine Skei Grande when she says we have to bet on those who need it. But the point is that we have to meet every single child, we have to meet everyone, we have to get an individual assessment of everyone, if we're going to be able to discover who actually needs it. Then it doesn't keep giving an offer to those who obviously need it. The whole basic attitude of this communication that we are discussing is that the special offers should be part of the ordinary offer, that the special offer should preferably be superfluous because the problems are quickly discovered, as part of the usual business, and solved at the lowest possible level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e568	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e571	This is one of the days that is so important to Norwegian school that we probably can't take it completely in. We're talking about a good school in a great education system, and we're talking about those who need a little extra help to get the best starting point for the rest of their lives. We're talking about some adjustments that can make even more people get faster and better help in mastering and thus learning outcomes in school everyday life. I have to say that from that perspective, I am amazed that we do not get more agreement on concrete proposals to correct distortions that everyone sees as real challenges, on which an overall committee has comments, but which thus do not gather a majority in the Chamber today. I am thinking first and foremost of the proposal to introduce quality requirements and deadlines for the follow-up of individual livers that have been examined. My heartfelt appeal to the other parties today is to support the proposal by the Right and the Progress Party on this! We have an important debate about an important part of our children's education. One dimension, however, is absent in the matter, but must nevertheless be allowed to address here, and that is the gender dimension. If we look at the school in general and at special education in particular, the speech of the numbers is quite clear. Unfortunately, we also get it established in new numbers that have just arrived. Fortunately, in the last few days and weeks there has been some attention about this, but too late for the handling of this matter. Guys are overrepresented in special education at primary and non-advanced statistics at secondary level. We look at the school in general, girls are now better than boys in almost every subject, and the latest PISA figures show, as most people have probably learned, that Norwegian girls in the 10th grade on average have knowledge similar to a little over a year of schooling than the boys. There must be more than us in the Right who think these differences are surprisingly large and completely unacceptable. That's actually the basis for saying that we have a boy problem in school. The strict provisions of Section 8-2 of the Training Act make it difficult to provide boys with more suitable training in their own group for different reasons. Therefore, the answer is either a decision on special education or nothing. Norway is different from other countries by the fact that decisions on special education are increasing beyond school, rather than using resources as early as possible. The right considers that a more flexible wording in Section 8-2 would have made it easier to introduce different measures, measures that might help more people in ordinary education, and reduce the need for special education. We also record that the government itself challenges the paragraph in connection with the implementation of New VRI in secondary school. I think it is absolutely necessary to take that debate, but it must now be raised in another case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e582	The representative, Wickholm, began his speech by saying that he was pleased that it was the red-green ones who managed, because it ensures a good kindergarten offer. But then I would just like to remind the representative of Wickholm that it was actually the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party that took the initiative in the child care agreement that we have today. Furthermore, I think it is a little sad to hear his lack of perspective on equality today; draw out that women will return to the kitchen bench as long as they receive payment in the form of cash support, and, secondly, lack of perspective that there are actually also men who can choose to be at home today. An important wording in this case is the following: ‘The Ministry is concerned that the adapted training should be improved and that special education should be used primarily as an additional safeguard for students who do not benefit satisfactorily from the school’s regular training provision.’ These are nice and sensible words that we can all support – words that describe a day of school in which students are seen, taken seriously and get training and challenges adapted to their needs. But the problem is that this document excludes an essential group. It simply ignores a large proportion of students and fails to talk about their right to adapted training, a group that all speakers here have not mentioned – namely the highly professional students. This is because we have a group of students in the Norwegian school system who have strong professional skills in some or more basic subjects. According to the Training Act and according to the words written in this case, all pupils who do not receive satisfactory benefits are entitled to additional and special education. Why is the offer of these students not being discussed, those who do not benefit from the teaching because they actually require a higher level of education given? Why should we choose to exclude and discriminate against these students? I've previously quoted Egil Drillo Olsen from this pulpit, and I'd like to do that again: it's a pedagogical error to believe that the ones create losers. That's why I think it's a shame that we have a government that doesn't have the ability to embrace both groups in this message. Furthermore, it is not to avoid noticing that the red-green principlerry in relation to the principle of equality in school is like a clamping around the foot on them even in this matter. They refuse to admit that there is a need to amend the provisions of the Training Act to allow for another type of classification, adapted to the level of the students. At the same time, the Ministry has authorised derogations from this law in order to ensure follow-up of the weak students. This is, of course, a direct recognition that existing legislation is a barrier to following up the weaker student groups. Then I do not understand why the government is not willing to change this in the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e596	I want to thank you for what I think has been a good debate on a very important topic. There is no doubt that the work on this big message has been engaged far beyond the Committee's borders, so we saw it in all those who have come to the hearing. I think we can all sign it, with all the requests we have received, after the hearing and while we had the matter under consideration in the committee. As others have mentioned here, the message has many good actions, but the question is whether we get to the changed practice out in school. The dialogue with the municipal sector is of fundamental importance, because it is the school owners who are out there with their hands on the wheel of the day-to-day, who are the owners and managers of inter-municipal and municipal PPT services, and who are going to help make the necessary promise if we are to succeed in special education. This is a complex area. We've been talking a lot here about resource use and how much is tied up in bureaucracy and investigations. Those who lose out on it are the student and the school, who lose the resource they could have had if the support device, the PPT service and specialised educators could be more likely to be school-based and part of school-based everyday life, trained teachers, and made sure that more teachers could be better able to provide well-adapted training — thus preventing them from getting into the investigative board, you can almost say, and that it ends up with simple decisions and special education. This is why we are calling for this experiment, trying to decentralize a decision — cut some swings and make decisions at school, thus making faster decisions. But this is to be done in consultation with the PPT service, and it must of course be conditional on the student having a right, if one defines and believes that there is a need for it. Helga Pedersen brought in the Northern Territory Communication to be presented today, and the challenges of competence which are undoubtedly both in the north and in the rest of the country. But the challenge may be particularly great in the north, because that's where we have the deciduous greatest drop-out in high school. Then there is – as many have been here – a paradox that the school feels that there is too tight a framework to be able to create pedagogical and well-adapted schemes that can get students and that can give them new motivation to carry out the training. We have challenged the government parties and the government on § 8-2 and the fact that in New GIV deviations are made in the 10th class, while the municipalities then correctly point out that the need is for deviations in the 8th class.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e610	There has been a good debate. I take the floor for just one additional moment, which I think is important to point out, especially in relation to this group, and there is ICT in the school. No one has talked about it or been particularly concerned about it, but I am convinced that we are facing a revolution in learning methodology in Norwegian and international schools. This will especially benefit the group of students we are discussing today. I've once heard that among the Chinese there is a much smaller incidence of dyslexia. And what does it come from? Well, the letters in Chinese are pictures of terms, you can't put them together by sounds like when we read here in the West. That's why I believe that the new technology has a huge potential in terms of visuals. Visualization is a keyword for children who are struggling at school. We haven't really seen the potential in all of these technology areas when they melt. Now I'm not just talking about surfing the Internet and finding information in an hour, or doing tasks on data, but how to work in an interactive way like others than I am better at describing. It will help all children and will make it more exciting in school, more understandable and more interesting. It's a great potential for exactly these things. In this way, the producers of teacher’s books must understand the possibilities in it. We already see it in the gaming industry, which is huge, and which is bigger in terms of dollars than the film industry. What about using much of what they have of competence in school? We need to get teacher training to be aware of it in a completely different way than before, and we need to research it, so that we know what works, and not least what does not work. We also need a knowledge-based school, using ICT. I think, as I said, that there is reason to be quite optimistic on behalf of these children, especially considering what ICT can do. It will be easier for many to go to the school of the future just because of new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e623	I can't leave this debate today without commenting on Mette Hanekamhaug's contribution and the focus on the good ones. This must be the day when we focus on those who are actually struggling in school. It is, as I said at the outset, a broken group of kids with disabilities – there may be kids who have autism – and the parents who are struggling, or have worn out, to get a customised offer for them, we are going to focus on today. And then we get to treat those who are good, and who don't get adapted training, by themselves. I just want to stress that this day and this message are about the thousands of kids who are actually struggling in school today. Then I have a little comment at the end, to New GIV – I’m a little uncertain about whether the representative Harberg said “New VRI”, I’m not quite sure, but that’s how I heard it – and the understanding that it’s a bypass of § 8-2. As I see it, there's nothing problematic at all, because here there's students who aren't being put into a fixed group from the 8th stage and who go into that group out the 10th stage, but there's a measure that's being put in for a shorter period. I can't see that the Training Act puts any obstacles in the way of that. But I want to underline again: On this day and through this message, there are the important measures for the large group of young people with special needs – that is the signal at least I want to give to all the parents out there – we have taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e634	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 573]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e650	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e659	I am delighted to have the case rapporteur's speech in this debate, as the representative Anna Ljunggren, who was originally the case rapporteur, has changed the committee. That is, it's keeping the post, which is joyous, not that Ljunggren has changed the committee. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The Committee agrees on the starting point, namely that we need to continue to develop the school and that we need to use international studies, such as PISA, as a tool to achieve this. The Committee also agrees that the OECD provides useful advice on Norwegian school development. Over many years, they have conducted comparative analyses of different school systems and make assessments of what works and does not. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that it is important to strengthen the transitions in the education system, not least from childhood to youth, which this case is about. But then the committee separates layers. The majority, at the government parties, as well as the Christian People's Party and the Left, do not want to introduce oral trials in the seventh grade of the childhood. We're using a little bit of different reasons, and I'm therefore going to go on to present the views of the government parties. The government parties do not appreciate the fact that the proposers are pushing the OECD ahead with the reasons for the draft representative. The OECD has at no time presented the characteristics of childhood as an instrument for improving the transition between childhood and childhood. I would therefore like to challenge the proposers to give a precise reference to where they believe that the OECD has claimed this. Government parties believe that the school assessment culture needs to be raised and that the learning pressure has to rise. Our goal is to always lift the students and never lower the ambitions. But we don't believe that the characterization of the childhood is the solution. Then we believe more in providing better assessment for learning. This requires, among other things: schooling programmes for classroom management, such as: is mentioned in the big news about high school, which we will be able to discuss later in the session. Right-leader Erna Solberg has referred several times to good teachers as teachers with an x-factor. But x marks unknown, while what characterizes a good teacher, is – through a lot of systematic research – very well known. A good teacher is one who manages to give students an understanding of how he or she is, and how the students have to work to get better. A good teacher gives students the ability to participate by allowing students to participate in their choice of how to solve a problem. A good teacher supports the relationship needs of the students. This is one of the things we need to do more to raise the results in school and learn from the students. In addition, there is fresh Norwegian research that points out that characteristics of childhood do not increase pupils’ performance. Professor Oddrun Samdal and First Amanunus Åge Disease at the University of Bergen have looked at what gives students the motivation to learn more. They conclude that the students are motivated by mastering the tasks. They are not motivated to perform better than fellow students, nor do they have any positive effects on their actual performance. This is supported by international research. There is clear evidence that pupils’ internal motivation for learning is often reduced in the transition between primary and secondary education. According to researchers, this may be related to the fact that high school students are more exposed to so-called capability-related social comparisons, i.e. characteristics. We in the government parties are concerned that all students should learn as much as possible and reach their potential. It is then necessary to use the tools for which the research provides coverage and not to govern according to ideological skyscrapers, as the Right does when they insist on introducing grades for children at the 7th stage of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e678	The proposal to open oral grade trials for grade 7 is, in the opinion of the Party of Progress, the right way to proceed. Early effort is a cross-political goal in this committee, and we're all concerned with having a school that feels good enough for all students, and that's adapted to each one. Then it's basically that we have systems that make us know how to adapt education to the individual students as well. We can't have the goal of adapting education to everyone without knowing what adaptation is actually required, and what students need to follow-up and education. For too long, the school has been emboldened by a misunderstanding of genius, a genius, which is that instead of giving constructive, concrete feedback to the students about their learning progress, they choose to ignore the challenges that some of them face, to push them further into the system. We have just discussed the importance of early work and the right to special education. But then it's important to look at how we can set up systems that make it easier to catch up with the students who actually need it. At the same time, we have seen that various research reports have concluded that the learning pressure in Norwegian school is too low and that our students are underperforming in relation to the assumptions they actually have. The consequence is that many students can have extensive learning problems later in education. At the same time, it is important to draw up OECD recommendations that there is a need to improve the school feedback and assessment culture. They indicate that Norwegian school feedback is too poor and that they need to be strengthened. As the representative of Hadia Tajik was in, it is not that they have pointed out that grades are the only way to go. But what's the alternative? I would like to hear what concrete measures the government actually thinks we can do to improve the feedback culture, so that feedback is given in a different way from what is being done today. This is not outlined in the proposal that we are now considering. Nor have they suggested how we can improve the culture of assessment in relation to what is being done today. We in the Progress Party believe that the introduction of grades is the right way to do it. The reason for this is that it is easier for parents to follow the progress of the pupils in the individual subjects, for teachers to adapt their teaching better, and for students themselves to gain a better understanding of and understanding of their professional level in the individual subjects. It's important that students get a more concrete and accurate indication of what they have to work with, and how they lie down, and how easier they could work with the challenges they actually have. We believe, of course, that it is important to have good written feedback, which is given today, but this does not contradict the fact that there is at the same time a specific character next to it. The problem is that the written assessments today may become a little too meaningless. That Per is good at reading and Anne is good at math, says very little about how they relate to the skills objectives that actually need and should be achieved in basic education in order to be able to move on to higher education. At the same time, it is important to recognise that the Norwegian Institute of Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing in a school motivation study emphasises that grades are an important motivation factor both for the highly skilled students and for the mentally weak students. We in the Progress Party believe that focusing on basic subjects and basic skills is crucial in early efforts. Then it is important to ensure better monitoring of the students' professional level in basic skills, such as reading, writing and billing, at the earliest possible time. Then it becomes easier to catch up and follow up on those who require extra help. It is also important to stress that a new Swedish report demonstrates that it is actually the weak students who make the most of getting grades from high school. In the 1970s, the Swedishs removed the grades at the lowest school level. Now more recent research shows that fewer children with low-educated parents completed high school after these grades were removed. So why doesn't the government want to have a social equalization system in school? We therefore believe that trials with oral grades at the 7th stage are a step in the right direction, but at the same time we would stress that this is not exactly the way to go. We want to introduce written characterisation from the 5th stage, just to take care of the good aspects that we have mentioned in the past in terms of characterisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e697	Does the representative wish to put to the vote a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e700	At the same time, I would like to address the proposal promoted by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e705	The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e708	The right has proposed to open trials with oral guidance as a supplement to the written assessment in the seventh grade of the childhood. The background to the proposal is a desire to test how oral characters can provide students and parents with a better understanding of the student’s professional position and to prepare them for an assessment form they will meet in high school. The transition from high school to high school is often difficult, with a lot of new things to deal with and tougher professional demands. The right opinion is that it would be beneficial for students to have a small taste for grades as an assessment form. We have, of course, recorded that the proposal has encountered resistance in the government parties, but it lives with the Right fine. The proposal is no more specific than that both Sweden and Finland have gone up this path before us. The right-hand aim is to provide all students with thorough professional feedback on their performance at school. We are convinced that more complete feedback will inspire further work and build up under the students' learning and mastering. The right is concerned with strengthening the knowledge of the school. Then it is important that the students get precise feedback on where they stand. We believe that verbal, indicative characters, as a supplement to today's seventh-class rating, will contribute to this. This is also the background to a number of speakers and rapporteur candidates taking the initiative and applying for the introduction of oral grades last year before leaving childhood. The Council of State has previously rejected this initiative in cash. It is now also clear that the government will not allow trials either. In a survey conducted in the Evening Post on 18 April this year, a clear majority, 61 p.m. by the respondents, that they agree with the proposal to introduce oral guidance in grade 7. 34 pst. disagree, and 5 pst. is insecure. Interestingly, this study shows that there is a majority of oral indicative grades in the 7th grade among voters in all batches, with the exception of SV and Red. There may be something in particular that the representatives of the Workers' Party should be aware of. On the right, the OECD reports have been carefully studied in the context of work on the primary school survey. In its report, the OECD presents a number of Councils of Norwegian Education Authorities should follow, in order to strengthen secondary education. One of the OECD Councils is about transition and ensuring that students succeed in school. It is of great importance that the transition from high school to high school be facilitated by «creating a culture of assessment, self-assessment and feedback for improvement in all classrooms at high school». This is a direct translation. The right considers that oral guidance grades in the 7th grade as a supplement could be an important contribution to the assessment work of the OECD calls on Norwegian school to address them. When the OECD, with its internationally recognised school research environment, challenges Norway to improve the school assessment culture, it is something we should absolutely listen to and the Right calls for concrete action. The government is opposed to the proposal to introduce oral trials, but no alternative has been presented. I have also noticed another report, which the Ministry of Knowledge ordered in connection with the primary education report on high school, the NOVA report – also referred to by the representative Mette Hanekamhaug – where one has looked at what motivates young people. One of the findings is that grades are motivating. Students in the survey report that achieving good grades is important for their own schooling. In the right, it is likely that grades are motivating for early school students, and it is equally likely that an element of grades will also be motivating for upper secondary pupils. It's a summer between grade 7 and grade 8 and the sudden rise in motivation during this summer holiday seems rather unlikely. I have noticed that in her response to the Committee, the Council of State has underlined that she agrees that it is very important to prepare students for childhood for the transition to early childhood. But I call for other measures to help make them even better prepared. We believe that verbal, indicative characters can act as a motivation factor in this context. The current type of childhood assessment needs to be improved. We believe that these oral characters can add a new dimension to that culture of assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e734	We have just conducted one of the most important school debates in the ageing period, as the case-rapporteur for the previous case, Elisabeth Aspaker, correctly stresses. The debate that we are now having, I'm a little bit more in doubt and I think it's very ritual, in a way. The right parties need to tell the outside world at regular intervals that they are very happy with grades – or rather, numerical characters. Sense about the version that comes here today is very careful — almost creepy, indirectly — it is extremely difficult for me to choose which approach to take. I could take a more traditional ideological approach, that this is a contribution to what I know the right parties love, namely competition – wanting to separate the clint early from the wheat, want rankings, is very concerned with lifting them up and down and making it visible it the most possible, and, if necessary, and so relatively early, to take them out of the community. But I think that version is getting a little bit too violent. Another version, which I think is a little bit more correct, is that this is a typical sign that we're living in a time where we have a lot of sense of number and number fixing. We're very busy around, in both culture, sports, social life and politics, throwing dice and putting numbers on things. That's what we think is very funny, and we think that's a contribution to a quality assessment. For me, this is essentially a little bit of a stupid way to do it. I have very much faith and feel it is very important that good judgements be made, and that not least our students deserve it. We had a lot of good ideas about that in the previous debate. Mette Hanekamhaug asks what the alternative is for us in the government parties, and Elisabeth Aspaker says that there is no alternative presented. But there is really a big debate going on for the time – and it has been going on for many years – about what are just good forms of assessment. We know that many schools are working seriously and well with this. We know that researchers are very concerned about this. So it's a great and exciting practice activity, research activity, and debate on this that's taking place at the moment. There are very few entries in the debate about the fact that it is such a great added value for small kids very early to get some figures into this assessment activity. So far, we've called it a feedback activity, but it's in a lot of ways a feedback activity we're going to have. We want to have an activity where this has to a large extent been put into ordinary teaching, because it is precisely good teaching on the part of the teacher, in interaction with the students, whether they have it in themselves – that you constantly assess the level at which they are at, where they are strong and good, and where they need special attention in order to get better. In the good, exciting and important activity, most research reports show that numbers of young people are early more disruptive and may seem disillusioning than to be encouraging and thus productive in the learning work that is taking place. I think we'll be a little careful to say what research shows. In my opinion, research shows, among other things: from Sweden, as referred to here, just what is the main point of our assessment in this case, that it is important that young people are seen, that young people are evaluated, and that they are not least assessed for help in the further learning work. This is primarily what has been well revealed in that research, and that this is important and certainly to some extent has been overlooked in both Swedish and Norwegian schools so far. When I think it's right to go against this slightly cautious attempt that comes about numerical characters here, it has nothing to do with ideological matters, but it's simply because I think it's an unwise way to do assessment and presentation work in Norwegian school at this school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e758	Assessment is a very important and interesting topic. This is particularly interesting because Norway has been informed by the OECD that we are not very good at assessing it. But proposing to open up oral grades in the 7th grade is, in my opinion, a derailment of an important debate. Do we really know what's going on in school today, or are we just reading reports from the OECD? We have two types of assessment: we have assessment of learning, and we have assessment of learning. I have told you earlier today that I have been on a school visit to Hadeland this week. I've wanted to focus on the good ones. Actually, I was in several schools. I was in a combined high school, an ordinary high school, and a high school. Initially, I invited myself to three different schools to hear about how they worked on the topic of learning assessment in the Education Directorate's project Better Learning Environment in Hadeland. High school is not part of this project. The project is followed up by researchers. Being out talking to the grassroots is interesting and instructive, especially when traveling to several different schools and discussing the same theme. In this project, the first year of schooling focused on developing a good environment for learning through good relationships and, secondly, good classroom management where all students were to be seen. So they've gone on with their assessment. Assessment for learning was a natural follow-up to work on setting goals for self-learning. In high school, students are involved in assessing the level of achievement. I even asked one of the math teachers if it didn't feel like a waste of time to run with such a thorough evaluation of tests with the students when he could rather spend time on the syllabus. The teacher said no, no, no, no, no. He felt that the thorough assessment provided a good basis for further problem solving and learning. In that way, he also saved time. How they should best carry out their assessment is something they're going to work on, but this is one of the basic OECD points out: understanding how they can improve, and thereby facilitating their transition to high school. In my opinion, proposing oral grades in high school is only a cheap populist play that easily gets looked up in the media. On the other hand, the proposal does not address the serious challenge in school to ensure that basic skills actually increase. If you really want to increase your basic skills, I would use some time to get involved in the tests that have been done, or that they are doing, when it comes to school assessment, for example. follow the four-year national initiative launched in 2010, entitled ‘Evaluation for learning’. This project is a follow-up to Better Assessment Practice, launched in 2009. It's a follow-up that's gonna teach us and the teachers what's going on to achieve what we want with the assessment, and how it can be done in the best possible way. The proposers further show in the attitude that NOVA, through a survey, says that high school students believe grades are important for motivation. The proposers assume that this is also transferable to primary school, i.e. that it increases motivation. Both the Centre Party and the proposers share the view that motivation is important for learning. The paradox, however, is that today we know that the motivation is falling from those at high school until they end up in 10th grade, that is, after the students get a number character. Of this, I can draw quite the opposite conclusion from the proposers and claim that it can hardly be the characters that are the important motivation factor in high school. Then the motivation should have gone up to step 10, not down. I have faith in the research and development that has been started in terms of school assessment. The Education Directorate's project in Hadeland is exciting in this way. I also hope that the high school there will carry out an exciting assessment project, so that those students who have been used from high school to assessing their own learning in terms of goals meet the same system in high school. I think that's a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e790	I think the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien and several others from the government parties made some excellent contributions and in a very concrete way described how good work on assessment is now going on around School-Norway. I am a little surprised that some members of the Committee are not aware that we have had a project that has been about better assessment practices, which ended in 2009, but that we launched a new programme in the autumn of 2010, a four-year national effort on Assessment for Learning, precisely because it is so vital that we improve the Norwegian feedback culture, which is very weak in many areas of school. So it's going to work systematically every day in School-Norway to get this better. Four principles of good educational assessment have been formulated, which are also reflected in the regulations of the Training Act. The principles are based on international research, which shows that the students' prerequisites for learning are strengthened if the students: understand what they are going to learn, and what is expected of them is feedback that tells them about the quality of their work or their performance is given advice on how to improve is involved in their own learning work, inter alia. by assessing their own work and their own development; It's this that's the success factors for good learning. The OECD has not recommended the introduction of numerical characters at the paediatric stage. On the contrary, they say that grades in terms of a number are not a sufficient response to the students. Nor was it true that we did not know that we had a weakness in assessment culture until we received the report from the OECD. It is this way that the OECD commends us for good work on Assessment for Learning and underlines the importance of holding on to it and developing it further. So we've been supported by the OECD in the work we're doing, together with a clear emphasis on just working well with the transition from high school to high school, at all, working better with transitions. It's also something that we're doing, and we've been supported by. So it's not like we're rejecting numbers for ideological reasons -- it's the opposite. When the Right Party and the Advance Party propose numerical characters, they do it for ideological reasons. There is no professional support that this is good feedback in the school. It's just that the number characters give too limited feedback. I think this is a very good private proposal to get on the table in Stortinget, because it shows something very interesting that I'm going to use for everything it's worth in the further discussion about this. It shows that the Right Party and the Advance Party are all alone in wanting the introduction of grades in primary school, and that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agree with the government in refusing to open the door to attempts at numerical characters. I think that's very interesting, because from part of the local government that is now applying for – or wanting – to start an experiment, there's a majority of the Left and Christian People's Party behind those applications. But now I have backing from a broad majority of the Stortinget to say that we believe this is the wrong medicine in the development of School Norway further. It is very grateful for me to keep it in writing in an attitude from Stortinget. It is true that a poll has shown that among those asked, there was a majority who wanted to introduce numerical characters in primary school. But the interesting thing was that the older the respondents were, and the more men they were, the stronger the support for this. The younger you were, the closer you were to the parent group at the nursery, the closer you were to the mothers, the more you were to the opposite. I think it's a little bit about that if you have reality in school all the time, you're really busy figuring out what's going on, not just what's the best symbols. It is also the case that there is massive resistance among teachers to introducing numerical characters, of course also because the introduction of numerical characters in primary school would require extensive training. You shouldn't just sit and see a little bit and then throw a number character away. It's a lot of work that we don't have any effect on. That's the opposite of what we're doing in terms of assessment, which gives effect. I thank you for an ideological debate. A purely ideological proposal, which has no professional justification, is today being rejected by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e827	The Council of State pointed out that the OECD believes that numerical characters alone are not the way to go, but in the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party we say that this should be given together with a written assessment. That is an essential element of this proposal. At the same time, I just want to say that I hope the Council of State does not share Hagen's view that the characterisation of the teacher is simply throwing dice rather than getting a professional assessment given by the teacher. But at the same time, we can't fail to look at Swedish research that showed that grades work socially evenly. Doesn't the Council of State think it's important in the Norwegian school too just to have this that works socially equalizing on the student mass we have in school today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e834	I must say I am amazed that the Right Party and the Advance Party must return to a school change in Sweden in the 1970s to find professional coverage for their proposal to introduce grades in primary school. At that time, there were many changes in Swedish school related to the change in grades, and it is very difficult to find out if there are grades in themselves that may be the reason for the findings that have been made in research later. What we know is important in relation to social cohesion is good structure, clear expectations and good feedback. I think the representative, Hanekamhaug, was interested in something in his post. She said that it gives bad information to say that Per is good at reading and Anne is good at math. That's just how kids experience a number character, a very simple feedback that doesn't tell them what to do, what they don't understand, and how they can get better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e841	No one can be surprised that an SV State Council is standing here and denying and sablering down grades, because if the Council of State had got its way, she would probably have removed the grades completely from Norwegian school. But that's the system we have in high school, and I haven't heard any suggestions about a different system than that. A little to the response of the Council of State to the Storting in connection with this proposal. The Council of State writes the following: ‘I therefore fully agree with the proposers that it is important to prepare students well for the transitions in the education system. They must be well informed about the nature of the system, the importance of the character scale steps, etc. Not least, it is very important that students have a realistic view of their own professional strength and the challenges they face in the various disciplines.’ Then is my challenge to the Council of State: how should she theoretically give these 12-13-year-olds an introduction to this? That must be the option when you cannot give them oral grades as an addition to the second assessment they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e853	The President has doubts as to whether the term'suspends' is parliamentary language, but allows it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e856	I have to say that I expect members of the Education Committee at Stortinget to be a little better informed about what is government policy, and what is SV's policy, if you want to attack it. It says in SV's program that we're going to have grades in high school, not because we think it's so very valuable with numerical characters in the work on Appreciation for Learning, but because we know that it matters how we rank students in terms of how they're going to move on. It's an argument in relation to the number character of the child's stage that's completely gone. It is also the government's policy in this area. The problem with the right hand side and the right hand side in this case is that they have no professional support behind the proposal that numbers at the child’s stage will have a good learning effect. It's a purely ideological proposal, and I'm very glad that the Left and Christian People's Party, along with the government parties, reject attempts at it. So, of course, it's so that through the assessment that the students get at the kindergarten. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e867	Time's up. So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e874	I thought I would give some feedback to the representative Hanekamhaug and the representative Aspaker. The representative of Hanekamhaug, who is attached to his post, marks the stage of childhood – at the 7th stage, which this is about – for early work. I myself believe that it is a little ambitious to make early efforts at the 7th stage; early efforts must come much earlier in childhood. So the representative Hanekamhaug used the word ‘skillism’ about the situation in school today. It is possible to discuss whether this is the correct diagnosis, but I am sure that the Workers' Party's Rune Gerhardsen is grateful that the Advance Party adopts his language usage. Then the representative Hanekamhaug also says that it is right that the OECD not only recommends grades. No, what's right is that they don't recommend grades. That is not what is part of their recommendation in improving the transition between childhood and high school. The representative Hanekamhaug requests the option for grades at the 7th stage. Part of it was outlined by the Council of State. It is not least about the work being done by the Education Directorate in terms of Assessment for Learning, which is an important and necessary work. There are also proposals in the School Communication that the Committee is working on and that we will have the pleasure of discussing later in the session. Then the representative Hanekamhaug connects grades of the 7th stage to better monitoring of the students' level. I would like to draw attention to the fact that better monitoring of the level of students is what we have screening tests for, and that is also part of what is in the proposal for the high school report, to which we come back. The representative, Aspaker, said in his speech that the majority of voters were for grades. I do not know whether the study that Aspaker refers to holds professional objectives in terms of whether to base it on policy development, but at least I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Education Association has also done a study of the teachers' point of view. There it turns out that eight out of ten teachers answered that the introduction of grades at childhood was a bad idea. The teachers are very close to the students, and they know very well what the students need to get good learning. I believe that it is helpful and valuable that we also listen to the teachers in that work. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a consensus that we need to improve the transition between childhood and high school. That's the cross-political agreement. But then there's disagreement about the instruments, and we're just going to have to take that with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e896	The culture of feedback is what we debate. The problem with grades is that it's one-dimensional. There is a linear method of placing children in relation to each other — and that with very few variables in addition. Therefore, the possibility of obtaining information in such a system is very limited. The reason we have grades – because that’s not without reason that we have it, and as Kristin Halvorsen has already said, it’s in SV’s program, and the red-green majority government also rules after that – is that we need a system to sort in relation to further studies and school. That's why we have such a simple linear system, which is kind of banal in terms of feedback. That's what this is really about. When I hear the representative Hanekamhaug talk about the feedback culture in Norwegian school, I have to say that I feel very bad again. What many have drawn out is what the directorates, departments, schools and municipalities are working on. But now I want to put on my hat and be among the one million in Norway who are either going to Norwegian school or who are parents of someone in school. I've just, along with my father, been at home for parenting with three kids. It was a very detailed review for every subject – incredibly impressive really. I wish I had gone to a school with that kind of feedback culture. One of the children's names is Anne. How good she is in math, I don't intend to talk about public, and I don't intend to talk to anyone else about it than to the father. But to put it that way, the interesting thing is what kind of mathematical things she thinks it's exciting to work with, what she's struggling with, and then go in and look at it with the teacher. It's completely irrelevant how she's related to everyone else in the class. It has no information value. The only thing we're concerned about is what she can improve in. So that there are no Norwegian professionals going in for it. We have a lot of school debates. Yes, then we refer to research etc. The opposition does not find support from any professionals and not from the teaching profession, to which one often listens. So to that with time usage. It would have been nice to calculate the time spent this would mean, especially given that it has no particular effect. At least that's not documented. The word populism has been used in the past. I fully support that with regard to motivation. It doesn't promote motivation. At that time, high school should be the highest point in Norwegian school. Everyone in this room knows that's where the low point actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e911	It's kind of strange to be accused of populism when so many people say that everyone is against us. That's probably the opposite of populism. Additional measures are needed. There's been a lot of people coming up from several of the sides in the hall. Some of us have known for a long time that additional measures are needed, because there are more of us who have children in school and who have children of the age in question. It is obvious that feedback from the school has a different character around it. I want to say that some of the feedback we receive as parents from school is hardly one-dimensional, and they are at least not suitable to find out where to grab hold of to help the children. That is why I think it is very good that the OECD has put on the agenda that we need clearer feedback. That's what Right will do, and that's why we've promoted the proposal. What do the government parties want to do with that? We have not heard anything about that in this debate, or in this Chamber. What do they want to do to solve this that they can document? Yeah, they'll keep going like this. But what will they do to improve the feedback they can document? So we can find people who say that this is a good solution. It is not right that there is no professional background saying that this is a good idea to try. I wonder, struggling to understand, what makes it okay with lots of preparatory transitions between high school and high school. It's okay with grades in high school. It doesn't create problems for the kids. But if we do oral trials with it in the seventh grade, it's so bad that one puts all the cloths in a debate about it, and doesn't want to be part of it. I have not yet been able to perceive what is so dangerous that this cannot be tried to see whether it works or not. Finally, I must be allowed to make some comments about the rhetoric of the Council of State, which makes it clear once and for all that the figures do not say enough. No, that's what the council can say as much as she likes. At least it has nothing to do with this debate, because no one has suggested that there should only be figures. It is completely on the side of the matter, completely irrelevant. It will probably be repeated several times, but it has nothing to do with the matter. There are additional verbal feedback. The teachers don't want it, a majority in the hall doesn't want it, but there are so many people who think it's a good idea to try. So it's said that this is only ideology on the right hand side. Yes, it's actually an ideology from the Right – that we'll try out the things we think can help the kids in school. It's an ideology we're proud of, we're willing to do those experiments, and I'm going to be on the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e929	For the Christian People's Party, the school is as much about learning and mastering as it is about having something to stretch after. If we cannot give it to the students, I believe we have not succeeded in Norwegian school. As stated in the vote, the Christian People's Party does not support this proposal. We agree with the need to prepare students well for the different transitions in the education system. We also see that the transition from a quality-free kindergarten to youth can be difficult for many. At the same time, I can't quite see how the transitions get less demanding by lowering the time characters are introduced. We'll still be left with a transition that will give a shock. We have to look at other ways to prepare the students for that transition. Nor can I see that grades will be the answer to a possible low learning pressure in Norwegian school. If it was that characters had an automatic effect in motivating and inspiring, shouldn't the situation in high school, as we have today, be completely different, because it's at the time you start with grades? Today we are talking about a youth step that lacks motivation, and in many ways is helping to lay the foundation for a drop-out problem in higher education. We believe that it is not the teacher's ability to put numerical values on performance that counts; it is the ability to describe what the subject is about, set clear goals and help the students to achieve them, which are important for learning. Neither has it been given that grades give better learning and more to go after. When the Right says, couldn't we just try this? Then we should respectfully look at international research and not send the students into a pilot project that so much indicates will not work. Other countries have tried it. It has not been shown to give the effect we would like. What works are understandable goals, clear criteria, meaningful tasks and continuous professional feedback. We believe it is much more important that we constantly improve the assessment skills of teachers so that they can support the learning of students throughout high school. This is also true in youth. A character cannot come alone, it must come together with an assessment of performance and level and what is needed to improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e946	I've always thought that some men are more men than other men, and I've realized that there has been a politically incorrect position. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge confirms that this is the case – with the Minister of Gender present in the Chamber. Now there has been a lot of talk about ideology, skyscrapers and the OECD today, and what the proposal is really about. It is quite right that the OECD does not say that Norway has to introduce figures in Norwegian school. Nor is it the case that the Progress Party and the Right believe that numerical characters should replace qualitative feedback to the children. On the contrary, the OECD confirms what we all know and have known for a long time, that the feedback culture in the Norwegian school is not good enough, and that both numerical and qualitative feedback can be used. The proposal is that we believe that we have to try out both parts, just in some subjects, and open it up in some municipalities in some disciplines to just find a decision-making basis for the further debate. It is that no matter how much international research we have, Norwegian students are involved. Then, I think – and obviously the Advance Party and the Right in common – would have made sense to get this decision base based on the students that this is actually going to apply. Norway is a special country, with special students and with a special school. There are many good qualities to take care of. But we have to try to figure this out by implementing it in Norway. So this is about two things. One is that it is about resource allocation, for example: on knowledge, on whether the level of knowledge in the student body can be used to allocate resources to the appropriate schools and classes, but it is not least about creating precisely that with consideration for learning. So we also know that high-level teaching press is good for everyone, especially for the weakest students. There is no doubt, in my opinion, that you will allow a higher learning pressure if you also introduce grades. Then I am glad that today we have not heard the reasoning that we have often heard before – the SV thought before 2005 – namely that grades in themselves were some obscene things that were not in the best interests of the students, because it created rankings. Today, we know that students rank each other's level of knowledge on their own, without skillful guidance, from early childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e959	In society in general, dating is fashionable – it concerns car, body, food, cinema, books and politicians. We get all of our numbers placed on us. But in school and education, luckily, there's been an opposite trend on and off, and it's actually been going on for a long time. Then it's not for ideological reasons, it's simply that it's professionally stupid to attach too much numbering — and numbering alone — to the activity that's going on in our education system. If we brief ourselves a little bit, look around and ask employers what they care about when they're going to hire people after they're out of school, it's said that numbers are increasingly important. They run away from them and see that they don't look too crazy, but then they're looking for other things about him before he gets hired. One can look at the character conversion that took place at colleges and universities for a good part of the year ago. We, who were running that system, put numerical characters down to the tenth level in the social field. There are rumors that even the lawyers were driving hundreds of times, but I have not been confirmed. They've now switched to letters, relatively few and wide categories, and then they like to add some text. It is not that numbers are dangerous – that’s not what has been the starting point for SV’s problematisation of this – but it’s simply that numbers are stupid, sometimes misleading and not particularly inspiring, rather on the contrary. So what's happened within our school system is that we're going in the opposite direction -- numbers are pushed in the background. We see that both in high school and in high school. Then it fills up with text, and then it fills up not least with conversation, just to make this an integral part of the learning process. Then it's not that we're against supplementary measures. On the contrary, as the Council of State points out, we are very concerned that this activity is going to get better, and therefore there is also a lot going on. Then the operation of Storting cannot be such that when it is sent in a simple, slightly ritual question, we have to answer back with 30 pages of text to refer to all that is going on out there. This is an activity, and it's a debate that members of the church, education and research committee should definitely feel up to date, and I'm absolutely sure that we're all also participating in, so let's not put it into a text here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e972	Those in School-Norway who follow this debate, I think would be very provoked by some contributions from the Right and Advance Party. It's the principals and teachers who work systematically every single day to get a good assessment culture at their school, and who have done it for many years. Because it's not that we've just figured out that we need to work on just this. This is a weakness in the Norwegian school system that I found out a few years ago, and which has been working systematically since. Therefore, better assessment practice, a project that was completed in 2009, was replaced by a new four-year commitment to Assessment for Learning. This is why evaluation has been important in the discussion on learning and community, the big message we have just addressed, and in the big news about high school, Motivation – Mestring – Possibilities. That is why we have launched many measures. We have e.g. a new and improved assessment regulation and a circular and guidance on how this legislation is to be practised. The regulation specifies that the student’s professional level is to be assessed. We have further training and assessment of teachers, both in-flight assessment and point of view. We have guidance in curricula with examples of characteristics for a goal achievement. We have placed increased emphasis on assessment in the new teacher training. A half-yearly assessment has been introduced which includes a scheduled conversation between the teacher and the student at all stages of initial training, including in childhood. When I look at what a lot of teachers now offer about follow-up and giving students feedback, I have to say that the school has come many steps ahead since I myself had kids in high school, and since I went to high school myself. You give much better information about what to do and how to do it systematically. Some strive to get the volume of information so that it is possible to relate to students and parents, and that the messages become clear enough. But that's exactly what we're working on when it comes to learning assessment. I'm very surprised that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party who are otherwise so good at raising the importance of teachers and teachers' competences, place so little emphasis on teachers' own assessments in this situation. For there is a massive perception among teachers that the introduction of numerical characters at primary school is not a good measure. There is no support out in School-Norway because this is a priority area. In this context, I would also like to stress that there is nothing in the advice we have received from the OECD that suggests recommending numerical characters at all. They support us in our assessment that we should work better with feedback and assessment culture, and that we should work better with the transition from high school to high school. So I repeat: this is a purely ideological proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that has no professional coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e989	I do not know what is most provocative, that there are debates here in the Chamber on fundamental challenges in Norwegian school, or that in between there are proposals that may not be ‘common il faut’ when they are introduced, but which may mature, so that you might see that there are definitely more entrances and more views on what can benefit Norwegian school. Then I find out that the representative Aksel Hagen has made two posts here today, where he only talks down the characters and against them. The only thing he's not allowed to say is that he's actually against them. Then it is probably part of SV's government adaptation that the program for the period when the red-green cooperation had been concluded, washed out the proposal to remove the characters in Norwegian school. I would say we have a performance challenge in Norwegian school, and we have a motivational challenge in school. It's not like we've suggested that the characters, as Marianne Aasen describes as one-dimensional, should be the only assessment. I am also very much in favour of and hope that the programme Assessment for Learning actually also says something about how to add further new dimensions to the assessment in order to provide students with better feedback on their learning work. It is also a standard to say something about the level of knowledge and skills that students have in their transition to youth. Then I think it's a little late when the representative Marianne Aasen says that grades at the youth stage are not motivating, because we're seeing how things are at high school today. The truth is that in high school today, many students who never got the early effort and the professional follow-up that allowed them to start high school with the necessary basic skills, and with the necessary professional prerequisites that are absolutely necessary to get a proper return on youth. It is true that the OECD has explicitly not said that Norway should introduce grades at the nursery. But the OECD has also not said the opposite – they have pointed out that we have a too weak assessment culture at childhood in Norway. Nor have I seen that the OECD has gone into the stranglehold on land that has grades at kindergarten, because it is some of the OECD countries that actually have, and I have not seen that the OECD has actually proposed that they should take the grades out of their primary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1002	This has been a long and interesting debate and really a bit of a funny debate, I think. There's been a request for what are the alternatives to what's going on. I think the Council of State has explained in a very good way what is actually being done today, and it also really surprises me that it seems that there is something that has not slipped in, or that one does not have an overview of it. I have included «Assessment in the youth and in secondary education»: ‘1. On August 2009, the Regulation of the Training Act amended Chapter 3 ‘Individual assessment in primary and secondary education’. I read aloud from this: ‘Every student from the first stage has the right – to know what the objectives of training are, both the objectives of the curricula and the learning objectives developed in each school – to know what the emphasis is on in the assessment – to have his/her professional competence, order and behaviour assessed – to get informed about his/her professional competence and behaviour – to get information about what they need to do in order to become better in the profession – to assess his/her own competence, work and professional development – a conversation with his/her technical development contact teacher at least once every six months – dialogue with teachers on his/her non-professional development – to obtain a semi-annual assessment without character, where a specialist describes the student’s competence in the subjects and which provides guidance on how to improve their/have a mid-year evaluation in order and in conduct.’ So it's a little bit about what you're going through from the 8th step. Then you have the right to receive grades for half-yearly assessment, etc. This is on the Internet, and I would recommend that the parents – who are probably also represented here in the hall – who do not feel that they receive the feedback from the teachers to their children, include this print from the Internet at the next parental contact time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1052	I cannot fail to comment on some of the posts that have arrived recently. The representative of Hadia Tajik said in his speech that it was little ambitious that the Progress Party put in the jump for early effort at the 7th stage. But in the same post, the representative chose to refer to the government's most important early intervention symbolic issue, New GIV, which is launched in the last half of the 10th stage. The representative of Aasen mentioned his good experiences with the bourgeois-run school here in Oslo, which has just a good feedback culture. Yeah, that's great. The problem is that this feedback culture is not always as good as it is, but has great local differences. This is why it is important to establish a standard that all teachers in all the municipalities and schools in the country can actually deal with. I have to admit that I think it is a little special that the Council of State says that the Right Party and the Advance Party in their speeches show that we have little faith in the teachers' ability to judge when her own party trap, the representative Hagen, said that the teachers' characterisation is like shaking dice. At the same time, the posts of several representatives of the government parties here today show that they have misunderstood what grades actually are and why they are given. They argue against grades because they just rank the students. But the point of grades is not that the students should compare with each other, but that the student can look at his own performance, his own professional progress and his own level, and at the same time see how they are based on the skills requirements and objectives underlying the training and which they must actually achieve. I mentioned it in my first post, but it may seem that some of the previous speakers have not come to realize that the main essence of this proposal is that we do not go exclusively to have oral grades in school, but that the oral grades are to be added to the written assessments given to the individual student today. That's why the argument that only grades aren't good enough when these have to be just a supplement falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1067	First I can inform the representative Hanekamhaug that I do not live in Oslo, so that it is not the Oslo school I refer to. What I also want to address is that it is documented and said by many speakers that there is a comprehensive assessment of Norwegian school. This is how you see your own performance in relation to the skills requirements that exist. So we don't need verbal grades. That's what we're trying to say from the position. They're not needed. Why in the world are they to be introduced? When no one in school wants them, it's unnecessary time use. But what the OECD has pointed out, and to which others refer, is that we are too poor on the transitions – when children are going to start in first grade, go from primary to secondary school and from high school to high school. There's been a culture around this with new sheets and color pencils: you're probably doing better there, be so good, it's okay that the teacher doesn't know what you have in the bag, and then we hope it goes well. I would like to refer to an example from my own municipality. In a separate school circle, something has been done about this. There it is that when the children go to kindergarten, they get to know what kind of rules of order are in high school. Parents are taken into conversation, and you talk to the staff – you have systems for it – so that teachers know which children are coming, and what you can expect from them. The same system exists for the transition between high school and high school: the parents and the child are invited to spring high school, in the seventh grade, and you talk about the challenges and expectations you have in relation to each other. The same system is being established in relation to high school. It responds to what the OECD is talking about, not the mass of verbal characters, who have no purpose, who are no demand and who are wrong time-use in a school that has more than enough bureaucracy and tasks to deal with already.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1078	The next speaker is the representative of Hadia Tajik. Mr Tajik is the rapporteur on the matter and thus still has a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1081	The representative Svein Harberg expressed dismay at the fact that you weren't even willing to try to see how grades at the nursery could turn out, that it might seem positive. To that I would say that I don't want to experiment with school. So Harberg stressed that, of course, the proposers will not replace a good school assessment culture with grades, but that they want it to be a supplementary measure. He also stated that he would like to see a broader consensus on this. My question to you is: why do you insist on additional instruments for which (a) you do not have professional coverage, (b) do more work in the form of red tape both when it comes to preparing and documenting characters – I think there is a broad cross-political consensus that you do not want more bureaucracy – and (c) do not have a practical function? That's where the difference between the grades at high school and the nursery, which the representative Marianne Aasen was in, is. Grades at secondary school are the basis for admission to further education, while grades at childhood do not have such a practical function. So there are three reasons why you shouldn't go into the kind of supplementary instruments. However, when one insists on it from the Right and the Advance Party, it is, as I see it, only because one wears ideological skyscrapers. So to the representative, Hanekamhaug, who says that in my posts I have referred to what she calls the government's symbolization of early efforts, namely New GIV. Here are two things that are wrong: Point 1: I have not referred to the New GIV in any of my articles today. It's just looking at the record. Paragraph 2: Neither is the fact that New GIV is our major area of effort too early. New GIV is very important, but when it comes to early efforts, we've done several things, among other things. increase in hours early in childhood. Some of this was also reflected in the 2006 big news... and no one was left. So I just have to say that I can assume that the reason why the representative doesn't argue against what I'm saying, but rather thinks about things and argues against it, is that the actual arguments against the introduction of grades at the nursery are so good that it's not possible to argue against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1096	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1100	I don't know who's wearing the ideological skyscrapers here today, whether it's the position or the opposition, but I'm concerned about taking seriously what the OECD has actually said, written and recommended Norway, that before the students begin their youth, they should be well-informed about what the character system implies, the significance of the steps on the character scale, etc. In the reply with the Council of State, I did not get a good answer as to how she thinks that 12-13-year-olds will get an introduction on a purely theoretical basis, in order to understand what this actually means. I think that having concreteized the student performance at the 7th stage with numerical characters would contribute to a more informed dialogue with the parents as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1105	Now the representative Aspaker has just said that the OECD does not recommend numerical characters, but she is still trying to read the OECD so that in some indirect very subtle way they recommend numerical characters anyway. It is wrong - it is wrong and will be wrong. There's no way to trick this in place. It is not that there is a technical recommendation to introduce numerical characters in primary school – done with it! But preparing students at the childhood for what it means to start at the early stage, what a quality system is all about, and what is expected of them then, is something quite different than introducing grades at the early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1110	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1128	A little over 12 pst. of our population are immigrants, together approx. 600,900 people. 500,000 have migrated themselves. About 100,000 were born in Norway by immigrant parents. They come from 215 different countries. Today, we have a knowledge and experience base, not least in language and culture, which is far wider than in the past in history. This diversity is a strength for Norway, provided that we are able to use this knowledge in working life as well as in civil society. The starting point is good. We have built a welfare society based on values such as democracy and human rights, freedom of expression, equality and equality that apply in all policy areas, including integration policy. We want a society with little differences. We don't want a society where social differences follow ethnic dividing lines. It's about language, education, work, leisure, social networks, health and sex. The question is whether non-governmental organisations can contribute to preventing and/or equalising such differences. Immigrant organisations can contribute? What are they actually doing? Immigrant organisations will contribute? Who are the immigrant organisations for? What purpose do they serve? Are they representative of the immigrant population – for both men and women, boys and girls? Who is the voice of immigrants in the public debate, is it individual or does it represent anything more? What about the relationship with traditional Norwegian organisations? Is that contact? Would you like such a contact? If yes, from whom – from the immigrant organisations, from the traditional organisations, or is it only the authorities that want it? Is the potential of organisations to contribute to integration underestimated – or perhaps overestimated? How, if any, can they contribute more? Do the good answers to the challenges of integration policy, or is it just something we believe? Are they ever asked? Let me start with the obvious. Much is doing well with integration in Norway. Among other things, it fights. fixed by the so-called Kaldheim Committee in NOU 2011:14. Compared to other OECD countries, the population of immigrants in Norway is doing well in terms of work, education and participation in society, but at the same time we see some clear challenges. There is lower employment, more sustained low income and poverty in parts of the immigrant population, especially among women. Social heritage is also a well-known phenomenon, where living conditions challenges tend to be transferred from one generation to the next. The SSB has identified gender differences in living conditions among immigrants from 10 different countries: men are better off than women. Men have more education and professional experience from their home country, they are more employed in Norway, they master the language better, they do less housework – someone who knows how to do it? And they're less lonely and have more Norwegian friends. In St.meld. No 20 for 2006–2007 on social health inequalities points out how some health problems are more common in certain ethnic groups than in others. In a project on minority health at Ahus, among other things, to higher levels of diabetes, muscle and skeletal disorders, mental disorders, problems related to pregnancy and childbirth, to mention something. These are some examples of challenges. The Kaldheim Committee supports 230 proposals for better integration. Some of the proposals are about non-governmental organisations and their importance. The voluntary sector is one of the pillars of Norwegian society and serves many purposes. It is primarily an arena of social contact, community interest and joint activities, but also a learning arena of democracy and participation and thereby influence. Participation in voluntary organisations may also provide access to social networks that are important for inclusion in other arenas. The question is whether the voluntary sector has been used well enough as a means of integration. In St.meld. No 39 for 2006-2007 Freedom for all is discussed the importance of civil society for immigrants and their descendants. It is clearly established that the immigrant organisations are the necessary partners for the authorities in the formulation of an effective integration policy. Actually, it was a little bit different. In studies on the actual impact of these organisations, the result was rather discouraging: the immigrant organisations had relatively little power, with limited contact with authorities at different levels. The authorities themselves were passive, and the immigrant organisations used the established channels of contact to a small extent. The importance that traditional voluntary organisations actively seek to recruit immigrants was also underlined, but there was still a long way to go. Recent surveys nuance this picture, but the Kaldheim Committee shows that the immigrant population participates less in civil society, especially among those with poor living conditions, among women and young people, election participation is much lower, they are strongly under-represented in power positions in public and employment, they are better represented in local policy than at national level. They participate to a lesser extent in voluntary work in culture and leisure, in well-being and in trade unions, but are more active than the rest of the population in welfare, education and religious organisations. The selection then warns against a situation where minorities remain outside a central learning and community arena in Norwegian society. They point to three main ways of integration through organisational participation: by the participation of the immigrant population in general organisations such as sport, interest and professional organisations, by the formation of the immigrant population’s own organisations, the construction of bridges between the traditional organisations and the migrant organisations; In Soria Moria, the government says that it will increase support for non-governmental organisations that are making an effort for the welfare community and that Norwegian non-governmental organisations will be stimulated to include people with migrant backgrounds. The challenge will be how to do this. Are there instruments that have not been tested? Can established instruments be used in a more systematic way than hitherto? What responsibility should, can or should we put on immigrants' own organisations? Most studies conclude that immigrant organisations are key areas for ‘help for self-help’. But someone claims the opposite. A few years ago, for example, Aslam Ahsan, a well-known immigrant politician in Norway, the following to TV 2: ‘Assistance schemes for immigrant organisations should be phased out as soon as possible’. He considered that these organisations are working against his purpose and did not understand why third and fourth-generation immigrants should receive public support for actions that contribute to segregation. Instead, he believed that immigrants would be a natural part of Norwegian organisational life. The few will probably draw it that far. Social networks have a value in themselves, but can be both introverted and segregated. It applies to all organisations. For example, Amal Aden has been strongly in line with Norwegian women’s organisations in order to avoid gender equality in some immigrant communities. So the challenge is to find tools for cross-border bridge construction, where the benefits go both ways. Many immigrants are resource-intensive, but lack networks in Norwegian civil society. Many traditional Norwegian organisations need new members and people who are willing to do a job. Recent research, e.g. at the Civil Society and Voluntary Research Centres, some indications of both inhibition and promotion of such participation. Immigrants and the Nordics also participate in slightly different organisations. The difference is greatest in religious organisations, with the overweight of immigrants, and in sports, with the overweight of ethnic Norwegians. Immigrants need both the willingness to contact and school in Norwegian organisational life. Traditional organisations need to be willing to both contact and schooling in what integration actually involves by transitions. There are no common arenas where different networks can meet. Those arenas must be created locally. A working group of the former Ministry of Labour and Inclusion promoted in 2008 among others proposals for setting up voluntary coordinators in municipalities. A large unused potential for better integration is likely to be triggered if we are able to target both support schemes and other actions, based on better knowledge of differences and similarities, obstacles and opportunities. The aim of this interpellation is to try to launch a debate on how the potential for integration through non-governmental organisations can be exploited better than we have done so far. I look forward to the debate and to the replies of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1175	I would like to thank the representative of Christoffersen for raising an important debate. It's a good example of how the big room can also be used to raise discussions that don't necessarily have a single answer in terms of one decision we can make that solve all the issues, but where a broad discussion itself is of great importance. Voluntary organisations are key actors in a number of key societal areas. They contribute to diversity, to quality of life, to culture, to the development of policies and democratic attitudes and ideas. They have great social value in this way. Organisations are meeting places that promote interpersonal trust and understanding. The government sees the voluntary sector as one of the pillars of democracy. For each individual, participation in non-governmental organisations creates opportunities for shared experiences, friendship, identity and membership. Voluntary organisations are therefore also an arena for inclusion and integration. In voluntary policy, the government emphasises a lasting strengthening of the framework conditions to benefit the entire voluntary sector. The government is concerned with local volunteering and its contribution to an inclusive society. The level of voluntary organisation and voluntary action in Norway is high in an international context. It also said a little bit about the interpellant in its post, but let me elaborate and maybe repeat it a little bit, because it's an important part of the background for the discussion. The proportion of the population doing voluntary work in 2009 was 48pst. Immigrants are also actively involved in voluntary work. Research in this field shows that about one third of the minority population participate in hard work and volunteering. Here, living time and language are crucial for who participates. Although the figures for the minority population are lower than for the population as a whole, the proportion of the immigrant population carrying out voluntary organisational work in Norway is quite high in an international context. If we think that voluntary participation of the population as a whole would have been at the level of participation of the immigrant population, Norway would have continued to be at the top of the world by voluntary means. The voluntary sector gives a picture of what people engage in, and what people are concerned about. This gives important information about society. If groups systematically fall outside, the diversity of our society is not mirrored. An inclusive voluntary organisation society is therefore important for a society that is open and based on trust. A living democracy is a participating democracy. So we're talking about basic social goals. The most important contribution from the voluntary sector to successful inclusion is simply – but also, as we know, sometimes quite difficult – to include all groups in their work. Voluntary organisations can contribute to integration in a variety of ways, and the interpellant was even within it. Firstly, through an inclusive organisational life that is actively involved in recruiting members from groups other than those who have traditionally participated. Secondly, by involving immigrants in their own organisations building bridges towards other organisations and towards the rest of society. Voluntary organisations create a wide range of voices in the debate on inclusion and integration. Thirdly, by involving immigrants in organisations in which they can share with others in the same situation. Research shows that there is no contradiction between participation in immigrant organisations and participation in the rest of society. Immigrant organisations contribute, inter alia: to ‘help for self-help’ by providing information on the Norwegian community to newcomers. Participation in these organisations gives well-being, enhanced self-esteem and contributes to increased confidence at individual level. It seems that participation in an organization with people who look like themselves has a background similar to their own, also creates better conditions for contact with other people. In this way, immigrant organisations can also promote increased participation and contact with other citizens. The State may facilitate voluntary activities, primarily through financial support schemes and through the institutionalised dialogue with organisations. My department therefore grants grants to voluntary activities over the top. 821, heading 71. Support is provided to local immigrant organisations and other voluntary activities in local communities. Further support is provided to organisations working to prevent coerciveness and sexual mutilation. Support is also provided to organisations engaged in information work aimed at newly arrived immigrants. Finally, national resource environment support is provided in the integration field. This applies mainly to those organisations that were previously referred to as ‘cross-border organisations in the field of migration’. In the proposals for the 2012 government budget, the Ministry proposes that two new resource environment receive grants, namely the Utrop and the LIM Network – Gender equality, integration and diversity. So this is a new way of distributing money to these organisations, which Stortinget will be discussing when it comes to budgeting, if not for a very long time. Together with the Ministry of Culture, my ministry contributes with funding to the Centres for research in civil society and the voluntary sector. In 2010, on behalf of the Ministry, the Centre prepared several reports on the voluntary sector and immigrants. The inclusion committee, appointed by the government in April 2010, delivered its inquiry on better integration on 14 June 2010. Volunteering and the participation of the immigrant population in civil society are a major concern in the investigation. The inclusion committee suggests a number of measures. One of the actions was followed up in the 2012 budget proposal, through increased support for local volunteering in the integration field. Others will be assessed in the context of the Communication to the EEA on Integration Policy, which will be presented next year. The local funds now proposed will go into Groruddalssatingen and the investment in Oslo South through increased support for voluntary activities there. I think that's going to be an important new dimension of that bet, and hopefully a tool to draw the volunteers even more into our area bet. As far as the report of the Committee on Integration is concerned, there are a number of different proposals to be considered by the government, but which will also be of great interest to the Grand Duchy and to all those concerned with volunteering and integration policy. The proposals include, for example: encouraging sport to focus, in particular, on training opportunities for girls and young people with a migrant background, such as: by getting a broader sport portfolio, as there may be other types of sports that appeal to young people with a minority background. Another proposal is to use grant schemes to stimulate lowthreshold services in sports and other organisations. The Committee also wants to use schools and migrant organisations better in recruitment and information activities on the importance of participation, and they want to bet on cultural or social teams in local communities that target interests other than those of sport and where people can come together based on common interests regardless of background. I think it is important to stress what the representative was also involved in the post instead, namely that some of the differences in participation need not primarily be linked to ethnicity, but perhaps to a greater extent to the social position of the individual in society. Because we see that the differences in participation between the immigrant population and the rest of the population very much follow the pattern in different ways that we can see related to the class membership of people, i.e. that the immigrant population is less represented, not least in the voluntary organisations involved in cultural activities and leisure activities, while they are well present in terms of skills, housing laws, political work and some other important areas. We can also see that pattern in the Norwegian population, based on the social position and class affiliation of people. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Culture is now working on a big message about culture and inclusion. There the government will, among other things, describe how we should facilitate the participation of more people in voluntary cultural life, in particular those groups that are currently not participating very much. This will apply, inter alia, to: persons with a minority background and will be an important follow-up to today’s theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1219	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it shows that the government is already running. I also think that the government is now adding a new and exciting dimension to the area bet. There is an interim report on such a bet in the Oslo Wetvet district, which will be exciting to follow. I thought I would use post no. two to refer to some examples from which it is possible to learn. The first is an example from your own municipality of residence, Drammen, which is immigrant town no. two in Norway: Nearly six years ago, Muslims and Christians put each other on Mount Town Hall. Muslim church leaders, all the employees of the Brerene congregation, prost, priests, councillors and staff, the freedom of the city and all interested in the nearby environment on the Mountain were invited. On the basis of the meeting, it was a wish that Muslims and Christians in the Drama should respect each other's peculiarity and also focus on the common values we have in our society. The main message was that mutual respect, love and peace must be in place before there is any point in talking about further integration of immigrants. The drama and surrounding belief and life views were formed, and it is still the most up-to-date and active. In 2009, an imam at a congregation in Drammen was targeted for violence against the Koran school children. Following the initiative of the Dialogue Forum and the Drammen Minority Council, this negative event led to the setting up of the Drammen municipality for religious leaders from over 60 congregations, where the subject was laws and regulations in Norway, adverse effects of violence, child-friendly teaching methods, and how adults can better understand children. So another example: Diabetes is a fast-growing disease in all population groups. However, some immigrant settings are highly overrepresented. A study by Romsås in Oslo revealed a 28 - pst incidence. among women and 14 pst. among men from South Asia. Among Western population, the incidence is 3 pst. among women and 6 pst. among men. The Diabetes Association in Norway is an example of a traditional organisation that takes responsibility and has put diversity and equivalency in focus. With the support of the Health Directorate and the Extra-Foundation Health and Rehabilitation Foundation, they have implemented a number of measures to reach out to information, both in writing and orally, in a language understood by immigrants. With 138 local teams and 40,000 members, they have a huge contact area and rates of internal schooling of their members to contribute actively locally. They must seek funds every year. With greater predictability in funding, as pointed out by the Kaldheim Committee, the Diabetes Association can actually become one of the best partners of the authorities in order to achieve one of the most important objectives of the Cooperation Reform, both by providing competence centrally and perhaps the very best in activities that reach those concerned. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State in its response emphasises the permanent strengthening of the framework conditions for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1236	One of the reasons why it is important to get this discussion up is that sometimes there has been a public presentation of an image that has helped to create the impression that it would in itself be unfortunate if people with a migrant background organized themselves on the basis of their group. Clearly, we should always be on guard against trends that lead to lasting segregation. We shall strive for people with different backgrounds to be organised across the board, and that the goal is to make it as natural for the Nordics with a minority background as for the other Nordics to participate in the broad, collective organisations. Then the Nordics with a minority background have a responsibility themselves to want to participate there, and then the organisation life and volunteering have a responsibility to facilitate. I see, among other things: in my regular contact with the children’s and youth organisations that those who work with it deliberately get it done. It's possible, but it requires an extra consciousness, just as it's required an extra consciousness in the organization's life to include women and girls in parts of the volunteer where they were previously excluded, just as it requires an extra consciousness to bring in children and young people with disabilities. Similarly, an additional awareness is required to ensure that our diversity in Norwegian society is reflected in our organisational life. I want to underline just what the interpellant was also about initially, that organisations that are jumping out of the immigrant community can be a bridge into the Norwegian community and into the other organisations. It may well remind you of the immigration history that we know well here in the country, namely the Northmen who in their time emigrated to the United States, and who were met to a large extent by ethnic Norwegian environments, organisations and others, who became the way they were oriented into the new society – and who eventually got into it. That must be the goal here, too. One of the reasons for supporting a diversity of organisations for people with a minority background is that we need to avoid that, for example: only religious organisations and religious communities are the way into Norwegian society. We need from the authorities to take responsibility for a diversity in the organisational life of immigrants, just as we do in society. Then it is also important to note that when we now allocate money to national resource environments, we allocate money to a number of organisations that challenge their own environments in terms of values and world views. LIM is mentioned. Minotenk is another one. My department also distributes money to the organisation Skeiv World, for gay and lesbians with immigrant backgrounds. It would be pointless if we were to introduce a principle based on ethnicity that made it impossible to support that kind of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1247	A main line for the Workers' Party is to ensure that society provides security, responsibility, justice and development opportunities for all. It's human beings who are Norway's future. Every single contribution has the meaning of happiness as a society. We had yesterday's debate in this Chamber on electoral roll. I then raised the issue that the electoral process for immigrants with Norwegian citizenship is low. In the 2001 and 2005 elections only around 50 pst. in that group, vote. This indicates that we have a way to secure immigrants' important participation in society. The Labour Party believes that the key to good integration is good Norwegian skills. Therefore, Norwegian training is strengthened in the introduction programme. It is very important that immigrants learn the Norwegian language and the social and cultural framework in Norway. In our view, Norwegian is an entrance ticket to society and an important basis for social mobility. Here, early learning in different arenas is important. Language is also one of the means of participation in civil society. The voluntary sector is one of the pillars of Norwegian society. This is where participation and effort are central. People from different walks of life and cultures can meet. Language is fundamental to full participation. Stakeholder organisations and voluntary associations may, in addition to other important tasks, be arenas to help strengthen their skills and knowledge of Norwegian society. Here, as in working life, there is valuable learning and the exchange of cultural competences, social codes and Norwegian languages. In this way, immigrants and ethnic Norwegians can learn to understand each other’s cultures better. Voluntary organisations are key actors in their community and are part of the common responsibility we have to promote integration. For this reason, the Labour Party has adopted an own programme to benefit from volunteering and culture in integration work. The Norwegian Sports Association in its action plan aims to promote increased participation among young people, regardless of their cultural background. This is good, and the Labour Party believes that there must be demands for central organisations to work with increased participation. Norway has a lack of teams and organizations. Children and young people meet locally in law and experience social intercourse with others. This is a solid potential for active integration. The working party would like to strengthen, inter alia: the role of sport in the integration process. Various projects have been carried out in this area, and we would like this to be further developed in order to strengthen social networks through voluntary organisations. It is important for us to contribute to greater skills in meeting immigrant parents in associations. We have to help create arenas for this. When we get to parents, we get to them too – and vice versa. Equal access and opportunity to experience and emerge are central. Studies show that not only is it economic that not children and young people participate in leisure activities, but there are also religious and cultural reasons. We have to get more from the immigrant community. For us, the common activity and outcome of children with different backgrounds is central to integration. Here we want all refugees to be associated with voluntary organisations that can provide motivation for immigrant participation. Then we reach many, and we are sure that this will be an important element in strengthening the interaction between the reception and society elsewhere and voluntary teams and organisations. In addition, we will support localitarian teams and other voluntary organisations actively working to include all ethnic groups. These are important building blocks in a holistic and offensive integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1264	There is an important question of the inter-pellant travelling; a question that really opens up a very wide debate both on what the various organisations can contribute to improving integration and on what means they should have of public support to non-governmental organisations in this area. There is also a debate with an incredible number of answers, with an incredible number of possibilities, but also with some limitations. It is a debate I hope will not stop here today. Good integration depends on a lot of factors. Willing for integration is probably the most important factor, and that factor is often based on – it is said – the background, ethnicity and religion. Another important factor is participation in working life. The workplace in Norway is one of the most important and largest social arenas we have. Without a job, it may be easier to close yourself in their own environment and get less opportunity to participate in the open social network and thereby become familiar with and connect with contacts outside their own ethnic or religious environment. When it was mentioned here that labour participation in the immigrant population is quite high, it is true, but we also need to remember that the immigrant population is not a uniform group. There are considerable differences between ethnic environments in terms of participation — as has been said in both ethnic and gender contexts. There we have an important challenge that we have to address. The housing environment is also a factor that plays a major role in integration. A living environment where you come in as an immigrant, and where there are also many ethnic Northmen — perhaps in addition to other immigrants — will help make it easier to integrate than if you live in an environment where there are only immigrants from your own ethnic environment. It will make contact with the rest of the community more difficult. So we have non-governmental organisations, and that's the same thing. Many of the voluntary organisations we have in Norway — such as charities, cycling clubs, neighboring matches, etc. – are environments that are incredibly important for integration, and for immigrants coming to Norway to feel belonging to the country and to the environment in Norway. The interpellant refers to a study that suggests that organisations based on country of origin and ethnic and religious affiliation have limited contact with national and local authorities. It is natural then to assume that otherwise contact with the community is also limited. It is logical to assume that organisations whose membership is based on country of origin and/or ethnic and religious affiliation are hardly particularly inclusive — rather the opposite. I think it contributes to a segregation that is low integration promotion. It is worth noting that when you have to have your own forums in Norway to establish contact between immigrant organisations and Norwegian authorities, and when earmarked funds are allocated to improve dialogue between immigrant organisations and authorities, it is, in my opinion, something that is fundamentally wrong. There are many non-governmental organisations that are concerned with including all and working for integration. These do a good job, and you have to draw on the experience of these organisations and contribute to the viability of these organisations. I don't think it's going to be very positive that, in the context of the draft state budget, it's now being added to another facility for state grants to immigrant organisations and other voluntary activities. I believe that integration work is best served by the fact that public support is turned from support to immigrant organisations based on country of origin, ethnic and/or religious affiliation, in support of the entire spectrum of voluntary organisations working in integration work in the local environment. It must be a policy objective of integration that support concentrates on integrated activities more than on segregated activities. Voluntary organisations that carry out activities that should be general in this context will be relevant. I would also like to point out that in some organisations there is some uncertainty in the management of public funds. Therefore, it is important that we have good control of these, both to unlock unprofessional actors and to help create a good reputation for those engaged in integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1290	I would like to thank the representative Christoffersen for raising an important topic. As well as the State Council Lighthouse was in the post, the Inclusion Committee writes that this is a matter we really know too little about. We can, both Christoffersen and I, refer to our experience from the Drama, where at least my oldest son has participated in projects called 'Iltrett make color blind' etc., which were important attempts at integration, and which continue, but which have encountered many difficulties because it has been difficult to involve immigrant parents to participate in line with Norwegian parents. But what we know very little about, I think, is what's going on in those communities where maybe there's just a few immigrants -- in villages, in smaller cities. Do they participate in the ‘mixed choir’? Are they in the music village? Are they involved in activities like 4H and other activities that are common in the countryside? The inclusion committee writes that they know too little about it, and I think it now has to be a challenge for the Light Tray when he's going to make an integration message, that we'll find out a little bit more about this. For volunteering is – it lies in the name – voluntary, and we cannot stand here on the pulpit of the Storting and dictate where people should participate, but we can ‘set up’, and we can ‘stimulate’. Stimulating that the organisations involved in integration work, who want to lift this up, based on documented results, can get extra support, I think, is important. But the main thing must be through the introduction system, which is now being strengthened, to provide those who come to Norway with a basis and knowledge of what is so important in very many Norwegian communities. It was said once – it is possible it is no longer valid – that there are four million Nordics and seven million members. It says a little bit about the important aspect of people's daily lives that volunteering is. Then I'm among those who actually think it's important that immigrants also have their own organizations. I studied in the United States in 1981, and the first thing I got was being a Norwegian teacher at the Sons of Norway in Fargo. There were many – about not a soul who could Norwegian – who wanted to learn some Norwegian words, and they wanted to learn a little about their origin and their ‘heritage’. That's the way it's going to be in Norway too, and that's the way it is. That Somalis have their own association, that Iraqis have their own association and Kurds have their own associations, we have to accept. The question is, and there will be an important balance that the Council of State and the Grand Duchy must make: to what extent should we give these financial support – organisations that are primarily a social arena where a meeting is to have a pleasant time together and talk about the old country? Are they going to have a lot of financial support? Or should we focus our efforts on those who are just contributing to integration and who, like others, are building bridges, working with help for self-help, etc.? This isn't so easy to dive into, because often it's closed environments, and it's hard to get an idea of what's going on. However, it must at least be very clear that public support should go to work that contributes to integration. And then there's another field that the Right is always coming back to, and as I think we're going to get more and more back to in the years that are coming: what about our work immigrants – where are they in this picture? What about the Polish carpenter who sang in the Gdansk choir before he came to Hallingdal to snort? Can he be in the "mix choir"? Is he in the "mix choir"? Is there any focus on that part of the population at all? All those who work in the fishing industry are involved in voluntary work, thus being integrated into Norwegian society and getting friends and a better vocabulary, get a better Norwegian, better integration? There, I think it's important to follow in the years that come, because we know that the absolute largest group now is and will become work immigrants who may not have a long relationship or become very long in the same place – it's a little dependent on the work situation. But many of them take root, take their family, and participate in society. Are they taken care of and integrated into voluntary Norway? I think it's important that the organisations that go ahead here, whether it's the Red Cross or others, the sports teams, too, of course, and really want to focus on this and bring immigrants into the Norwegian community, are rewarded for it, based on the results they achieve, so that not only do they become tumultuous programme statements, but real action is taken. So I look forward to the Light Background coming to Stortinget with the integration message and hoping for a nice debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1305	Participation in organisations is training in democracy. I remember thinking in my youth that there was a socialist way of organizing organisations and a right-hand side way of organizing organisations and running some party politics and all sorts of things like that. Then I realized that it was completely wrong, because everyone in Norway drove after the Trustee of Einar Gerhardsen. There is a slightly important point in terms of integration in Norway, and for people coming to Norway, namely that if you have the broken code of one Norwegian organisation and learn how it works, you know how everyone works – like that at all. That is why it is extremely important to involve people who come to Norway in the ordinary organisational life. I think that some of the things that the minister has the opportunity to do can be done with money, through a little management of money and stuff. But I think the main thing we have to do is make sure that all the usual organisations that run in Norway understand that they have to take part in the responsibility for doing the integration work. It does quite a lot. But it's a little funny: every Wednesday morning I meet our local politicians, SVs, in Oslo – we have a regular meeting on Wednesdays. When I get out of there afterwards, the Tourist Association in Oslo and around by senior bus. Let's say it like this: there aren't very many people there who aren't white in their hair, and there aren't very many people there who are dark in their skin, who are taking part in the seniorist tours that go around, up in the northern part of the country, to go on trips. Right there it would have been important that they were their responsibility consciously, and said okay, okay, we're trying our own bet to draw with several of the seniors who are good adults, who have migrated to Norway at some point. Because it's all about finding the communities that are absolutely necessary to make sure that when you get to the seniority centre when you're old, you might meet someone there who you've been on the road the time you were a senior, finished your professional life, but still not finished a pensioner. So I think the big, important strategy is to make sure that all organisations in Norway contribute well. There are many kinds of organisations. I was a little stunned when Trond Helleland said that we have to align the money with those who are involved in integration work, because I mean – and that is of the things that both the right and the left, at least the decent part of the right and left sides, have agreed – that the organisation life has a self-value. It's not like they're a supplement to the public, but the organizations have a value in themselves. That's why they're important. If we agree on that, it's important to support all organisations where people choose to go together and organize themselves in their own way. We have a bunch of organisations in Norway today that get exemption from VAT through the Voluntary Register. There are no boundaries, it can be beer-maker union, the local road network, the well-being – all sorts of things. All of this is about us accepting and recognising that the organisation life has a self-esteem. Then there are also some areas where I think we need to rethink our policy, because in some areas I think the volunteers are significantly better than the public to do a job. For example, we know that there are a lot of Russian ladies marrying Norwegians. Nevertheless, we do not have an integration offer for them. It would probably have been important if we supported a self-help organisation or self-organisation of Russian ladies, preferably under an umbrella organisation such as the Red Cross or other organisations, that is, we supported people who migrate to Norway, who are in a way in a common situation, and who really need help and support to have points of contact. We cannot have our own municipal employee who can be Russian in any municipality in Norway. Then it's probably better to back up all of those who come as immigrants. Another example is all au pair available in Norway. There is no doubt that it would have been a strength if we had had contact points and supported during an organisation of au pair that is in Norway and that would not be able to Norwegian well, as a first language, but one had the opportunity to have hit points. There we have to rethink about organizing towards the integration message. So I want to agree with Trond Helleland in one thing, and that's how we think about labour immigration. There is no doubt that, as far as the largest group of immigrants to Norway is concerned, there are currently no specific integration measures specifically aimed at it. Again, there is no doubt that the places where we have organisations that make an active effort locally for the organisation, where integration works best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1318	First, thank you to Lise Christoffersen, who addresses an important matter, a matter that affects us all regardless of ethnic background. Yes, organizations have a self-esteem, and being together together enriches and develops us all. I'm going to use this post to reflect a little bit on different things that often come up in these debates. First, one can establish that the primary objective of organisations is to shut someone out. It belongs to the aims of organisations. If they're not going to shut anyone out, there's no organization. What's exciting to see is that we have a rhetoric in Norway that assumes that all Norwegian organisations are very inclusive, while immigrant organisations are exclusive. I could imagine getting a little bit more knowledge of that. I don't think that's right. We have Northern Landslag and Southern Landslag, and graced the Northern Lander who comes to the Southern Layer, to say it like that – and it belongs here in Oslo. Then there's a point that is often mentioned, and there's this with willingness to integrate. Once again, there is an unexplained premise, as if it were lacking in the migrant organisations, but present in full in Norwegian organisations. I don't think it's like that either. Ørsal Johansen was in on a very important point, I think. That's where we live in the country. Then we're dealing with a question of instruments. For which instruments will we use to provide varied housing in all parts of the country — in all parts of Oslo, for example.? Then the representative Ørsal Johansen also made a point, whether you need special incentives to bind these organisations together, or to integrate immigrant organisations into the Norwegians. I don't quite remember, but I think the representative concluded that there must be something wrong if you're going to use that line. It must then be very much wrong when the Progress Party wants ombudsman arrangements to ensure dialogue between, for example. user groups and the level of public administration – when we want to have user contacts, which is also an element in reducing the cultural differences between two cultures or organisations, in order to talk at large. Several have said that we know too little. I think that of the tracks you should go after when you're going to figure out more, the first track that can give us the most knowledge is to look at our own organizations to a much greater extent. One should go in and investigate: how tolerant are we? What are the criteria for good inclusion strategies? Which organisations address immigrants directly, e.g.? How good are we in our responsibility to create a diverse society? How many of us here on the Storting have, for example, called and asked to join an immigrant organisation – whether it's sports law, culture law, or anything? I think another thing that might be important to look at is to examine our tolerance limit for variety. When we talk about immigration, we talk often, very often, about language. We almost never talk about willingness to understand. I would like us to explore much more each other's willingness to understand, even though the language or words are not easily understandable. These reflections hope I can be part of the further debate. In the big picture, this is about how we construct each other in public space, and how we create our own ideas about ourselves and about the others. There we need more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1338	I want to start by thanking you for the debate. I look forward to that debate continuing. I look forward to two key messages, both on integration and on culture and inclusion. I think it has been a good debate. To take the last one first: I am convinced – based on my own experience – that the will to understand comes with knowledge and friendship. It comes when we have access to good meeting places. There have otherwise been slightly different views of what are the most effective instruments. I think that's good. We're going to have a debate on that, because I don't think the answer is given with two lines under one time for all. I think all the posts have somehow taken on the meaning that everyone has access to the Norwegian codes in order to be able to function in the Norwegian community. Trond Helleland was in the work of the immigrants. Yes, it's an important group to include when we think about inclusion. Morten Ørsal Johansen had a very important point, which really affects housing policy: if we make sure that not all reasonable dwellings are in the same place, it might be easier for sports teams to include. The trustee of Einar Gerhardsen was mentioned. The book is a syllabus in the Progress Party. Maybe it could also be a curriculum at the introduction program? As for the senior case, what does a colorful senior cause really look like? We can challenge the senior case ourselves to give us the answer. What is the definition of an inclusive dignity guarantee? That's where I think the meeting with the social networks of immigrants has valuable competence to add to the big community. Many examples have been cited. I thought I'd cost myself one last little example, which is not just about actions in one organization, but about mobilizing an entire community. The local committee's visit to the municipality of Vinje gave me at least some aha experiences. It is a municipality that has had great success in integrating Somalis, in fact so great that the rapporteur says: Yes, we would like to welcome more refugees here in the countryside, but preferably Somalis, because we have such good experience with them. In 2008 the celebration built a large 20th anniversary for when the first Somali came to Vinje. They have good results. Only two refugees are on social welfare. The rest work, take education and provide the necessary skills for local business. All young people are either in upper secondary or tertiary education and are included in two or more leisure activities. Parents act as trainers and managers in local sports. On questions from us as to whether there was anything that scurried in that municipality, the rapporteur replied: Well, there could probably be a bit of murmuring when the immigrants passed the Norwegians in the peninsula. So what's actually Vinje's secret? Probably that they've managed to mobilize the entire community, from housework to sports. Such experiences are useful in spreading and building on in a long-term and systematic work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1355	With regard to the secret of Vinje, it is tempting to add that part of the secret is that they have the rapporteur from SV. In a debate where it has been said very wisely, and where consensus has been broad, I think we can agree that there must be a number of instruments, but not least it must be a conscious attitude and effort by local authorities and national authorities – but above all from the voluntary community and the minority population itself. Today, we support different types of organisations. The large amount of money spent on the state budget goes to the broad voluntary organisations, but we also support specific organisations for and by immigrants. I think it's wise to keep doing that, and one of the reasons is that we know that we have good support arrangements for all religious communities in Norway. It is important that religious communities should not be the only meeting place for people with a migrant background, if, for example, they have a migrant background. want children to learn about the culture and language of their parents. There is in itself a reason to maintain support for that type of organisation. I agree with the representative of Greece that what kind of offers, what kind of framework and what kind of attention we have about the situation of immigrants in Norway will be one of the major new challenges of integration policy, and it will also be the theme of the Communication on Integration. Then I notice with joy a new tone – as I will call it – from the new spokesman of the Progress Party, which hopefully implies that changing the speaker also implies an adjustment in the political course of these debates. The representative Ørsal Johansen as much as I agree with, but let me briefly comment on something that I do not agree with, namely that adding to ‘institutionalised dialogue’ between the authorities and the immigrant population is a problem. To a large extent, we do so through support for organisations, but also through, for example, organisations. The contact committee between the immigrant population and the authorities. It is often emphasised that one of the important differences between Norway and some of the countries where the level of conflict is high between the majority and minorities is that we have a better and more well-functioning, smooth dialogue. It's e.g. one of the differences between Norway and Denmark, and I believe that we should stick to that. At 14 o'clock today, I will open the Freewill Norway Conference Meeting place in 2011, where they have an exhibition about the contribution of immigrants to volunteering. The portrait of change is called the exhibition, and it's appropriate because we've had this debate here today, and I'm going to bring it there. That conference is precisely aimed at bringing minority organisations together with the broad voluntary nature of Norway. There it will be, says Freedom Norway to me, about 40 pst. with a background to the minority communities and broad participation from the voluntary community. It is also a good sign that they take this seriously. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1372	If we wish the Council of State to be successful at the conference, the debate will also end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1378	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1403	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and No 3-5, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 7 and 8, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 9, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left The President noted that proposal No. 2 is not promoted. There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging escalation plan to increase the number of specialised educators in Norwegian school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1436	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the mandatory mandatory language mapping of all children after the age of three, in kindergarten or in the health centre, in order to identify any need for assistance to ensure that the child is optimally prepared at school start.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the setting of quality requirements and time limits for the PP service proceedings, so that matters can be decided more quickly and the assistance inserted earlier.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1458	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the provisions of the Training Act on ‘Lexification Assistance’ so as to enable assistance to be provided at the school’s most effective level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1475	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and No 3–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to launch pilot projects in up to 10 municipalities where, in consultation with the PP service, teachers and principals of each school are authorised to decide on special pedagogical measures aimed at individual students.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a new legal paragraph in the Training Act that gives CI operators the right to choose enhanced language training as well’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for exchange of experience between municipalities that have established new procedures for home-school cooperation, in order to clarify the role of parents in support of their children in initial training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case on a national school health service lift.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1522	In the course of the debate, Mr Hanekamhaug put forward a proposal on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the government to open trials with extended assessment with oral grades in addition to a written assessment from the 7th grade of the childhood.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1545	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-18.ana.ud1364e1626	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
