ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e52	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Per Magnus Karstensen is dead, 95 years old. Per Magnus Karstensen sat on the Stortinget for four periods, from 1965 to 1981. He was on the Church and Education Committee for three periods, during which he was also the head for a period of time. In his final period at Stortinget he was a member of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee and Vice President of Odelstinget. Per Karstensen started professional life as a gourmet. Later it became, among other things, work in Båsmo mines. Later he took education – while at the same time working at the Mo Trevare factory. Then he studied at the University of Oslo. For the worker party Per Karstensen it was natural to sign up for duty in the resistance struggle during the war. He led, among other things: the negotiations with the Germans for the takeover of the power of the home front in the hectic May days of 1945. Karstensen was a historian of science and acted as a teacher and lecturer in Northern Ireland. There he also became the school director. He was a municipal politician for more than 20 years, among others. as rapporteur in Rana. At Stortinget he was particularly concerned with the language issue, and he was central when the old Samnorsk policy was scolded in the Stortinget in 1970. Karstensen was also known for another difficult matter: he led the protocol committee, which was instructed to investigate whether a national court case was to be brought against the representatives Furre and Gustavsen for breaching the obligation of professional secrecy with the Stortinget. As you know, there was a majority in Odelstinget against national law. Per Magnus Karstensen was president of the Norwegian group of IPUs and a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. He was also delegated to the UN General Assembly. Lars Roar Langslet mentioned in his book «Glimt from Half a Life in Politics» Karstensen as an experienced, read, lowly and wise man. He was a solid social democrat, moderate and cooperative. ‘What he lacked in agitator glow he took again in factual soundness.’ Per Karstensen has made a great effort to preserve Rana's history. As late as last summer, Karstensen stripped a tree. In his place below the town hall he looked beyond the city he was agreeing to create. We thank Per Magnus Karstensen for a long work experience in the service of society and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e80	The representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Torstein Rudihagen, Peter N. Myhre and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of Akershus County, Bente Stein Mathisen, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative André Oktay Dahl from 1 February to 3 February, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Akershus County, Haarek Riveres, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Harek Rivers are present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Sverre Myrli on parental leave from 1 February to 20 February from the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten on leave from 1 February to 9 February for meetings with partners and employees in the United States, as chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund from 1 February to 17 February. For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen from 1 February to 9 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e148	Anita Orlund and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e156	The representative, Mr Halleraker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e159	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Knut Arild Hareide, Borghild Tenden and myself, I will put forward a proposal on the fight against traffic death.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e164	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e168	On behalf of the representatives of Inbjørg Godskesen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on the modern framework conditions for the taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e173	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e189	Thirty years ago, less than half of all Norwegian women were active. The other half were full-time housewives, and they were cared for by their husbands. In three decades, women have been outflowing to work, and today seven out of ten women are working. Today, we have the highest professional participation among women in the world. At the same time, we are at the top of Europe in the number of childbirth. We can certainly say that there has been a women’s revolution in Norway. Repeatedly, in recent years, we have also been assigned to the world's most equalized country. Combining the role of the mother and the professional role is impossible in most other countries. In Italy and Greece, only two women are employed, and in Turkey every four women are active. The fact that Norwegian women can both work and have children has happened because we have a uniquely organised working life with family-friendly working hours, the world's best parental leave schemes and good childcare solutions for children through a good childcare facility. Norwegian young children’s parents have an freedom of choice that is unique on an international scale. We are not forced to choose away children if we want to be economically active. We can actually say yes to both. The high level of female participation in employment is seen as an important contribution to the growth of the Norwegian economy. Norway’s gross domestic product is not just a result of our oil and gas resources. If that were the case, we wouldn't have been on top of the UN living conditions statistics year after year. If we look at other oil producing countries, which have not invested in equality, they are far behind Norway on all the UN lists. Many women in work create growth and well-being. This gives Norway a competitive advantage over other countries. International research shows the same thing: equality in the education sector, in the labour market and in the economy strengthens the country's gross national income, strengthens competitiveness, and strengthens innovation. Much has happened in the last 40 years, and there is no secret that most things have happened through political struggle and, not least, brave women. The right to kindergarten was not uncontroversial in the 1970s; the issue of the right to maritime abortion was the one that created the most severe. Gender quotaing and the spring quota are still controversial, despite the fact that these measures are very effective in achieving gender equality. And while the EU now introduces the feather quota, the Right Party and the Advance Party want to remove it in Norway – despite the fact that the feather quota wipes out old gender roles that have previously restricted fathers’ freedom of choice. The point is, it's never been the right side that has contributed to equality. If we are to move on, the initiative must be taken by the centre and the left in Norwegian policy. Our problem now is that the status of world champion in equality has become a sleep cushion. We've lulled into a pink world where we imagine we're so equal. But the reality is a completely different one: Norway has one of the most gender-based labour markets in the world. Women still earn less than men, sail if they have equal education. 80 pst. of all those working part-time are women. While eight out of ten toddlers work part-time, toddlers work more than anyone else. Two of three leaders are men. Women own smaller shares and capital than men. Just 20 pst. by the professors are women, despite over 60 pst. Of the students are girls. Last week we could also read a British report that believes that Norwegian equality policy has failed. The report is right on one point: Norway still has a long way to go before we achieve equality. But it takes fundamental mistakes in another area. The report only measures women we have in leadership positions. The point is that gender equality in Norway is not measured unilaterally in relation to the number of women in leadership positions, as the report does. Norwegian equality policy is for all women, not just for the elite. Norwegian gender equality policy is about making women economically independent and preventing women from having to choose between family life and professional activity. We have put in place good welfare schemes to enable young children's parents to be active. But all women are still not economically independent. Involuntary part-time forces women to remain dependent on their husbands. The traditional gender role pattern is well-planted in health administrators in both municipalities and countries. Who would expect to offer a man a part-time job? No one. But it's okay to offer a newly-trained girl who's an assistant nurse and midwife, only a part-time job. After all, she's going to get married and be cared for by her husband, I think the thought is. Why don't you be honest with me and tell the girls who are now choosing health care, that the fact is, find a partner that can support you! Yes, that may be what some girls have discovered, when the South African Councillor explained in the 2010 budget why so few chose to move on as apprentices in the care professions: ‘Otherwise, it seems that more young people opt out of this education because of small opportunities for a full-time job after completion of education.’ It is a fact that many women are treated as secondary workers in the Norwegian labour market. As we see, part-time is combined with extra shifts in the health and care sector. We know that in the hotel and restaurant industries there are 0 positions and ringers very common. Work as a 0 position and as a call guard is deemed to have ended once the agreed guards or work has been carried out. In practice, it means zero notice period. Such practices provide uncertain and unbridled work situations, with random working time and income, as well as zero opportunities to establish themselves with bank loans and obligations – I can add: if you are not depended on. Once again, the right-hand side will weaken the protection against dismissal and have more temporary employees, it will primarily affect women. This is an anti-equality proposal. In the course of the year, we have got a new concept: bourgeois feminism. The problem is that equality is not about words, but about actions. It doesn't help that the right-hand side talks about the importance of parental leave sharing when the consequence of the removal of the parental quota does the opposite. It does not help to talk about women's professional participation when the consequence of their cash support is that immigrant women do not get into work. It doesn't help to talk about how important it is to have women in key positions in politics and business when you're not willing to do anything to achieve the goal. It has never been the right side that has helped promote equality in Norway. Nor does it seem that they want to be in the driver's seat in the future. Equality and family policy belong together. When equality was made a state issue in the 1970s and state feminism was thus established, it turned around, among other things. creating a family policy aimed at contributing to gender equality. Today, the right is trying to create a conflict between equality and family policy. They use family policy to liquidate gender equality. I believe that if we are going to move forward, we must use the same tough instruments that the feminists in the 1970s were willing to use: more spring quota, more gender quota, more regulation strengthening and, above all, strengthening the gender equality ombudsman. At the same time, boys have to be more on the field. Without the participation of men, we never achieve full equality. Equality is about giving and taking power for both men and women. Women must take more power in working life; men must take more power at home. When all families today make the same choices for sharing their tasks, it is not about freedom of choice but about strong gender roles. Before we realize the last thing, we never achieve full equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e265	I will first give tribute to the interpellant for taking on a very important theme, both historically and – not least – with the perspective of the future that is being drawn up. Of course, it is not that equality between women and men has come to light on a mountain. Here history shows a laborious process, partly under strong resistance, of equivalency for both sexes. We can look back. We might have to look even further back, but if we don't go back further than the mid-1980s, to 1986, we see the world's first women's government, we see the extension of maternity leave to 42 weeks in 1987, to 46/56 weeks today, we see the revolution that has occurred from 2006 with gender balance in the corporate governance – which has attracted international attention – and not least, under this government, the kindergarten development with the right to a kindergarten for one-year-olds at a low price and with kindergarten offers to say everyone. The list of small and large-scale events can be lengthy. Progress is all the result of pressure from women and political choices. We have moved away from significant differences between women and men in the distribution of knowledge, resources and power. We can control our own childbirth. A stirring political struggle gave the law of self-determined abortion in 1978. This year the Stortinget will mark it as 100 years since Anna Rogstad was the first woman to meet on the Stortinget. In 2013, we shall celebrate 100 years for general voting rights by obtaining women's voting rights in the Grand Prix elections. Women have always contributed to the economy, but the position and not least the recognition and reward they have received have varied greatly. Women in the valleys and along the coast worked as gardeners and fishermen's wives. After the breakthrough for industry, many women came into paid employment. In 1912, the number was 22 p.m. by the workers in the industry women. In the 1920s, there were good times for women with office and shop education, as teachers and nurses. But the economic downturn meant that women had to fight for the right to work. It's interesting to go back in history and see that at the LO Congress in 1925, which was 86 years ago, a decision was made that married women were not going to work. The reason was the high unemployment rate. Then, really, the women were back-up workers. The norm of man as head and sole caregiver beat up and lasted until the beginning of the 1970s. The rates were always lower for women than for men. In the South is a statue of a woman entitled ‘Seld mentioned, often forgotten’. It summarises the lack of historical recognition of women. In the 1970s, the women's revolution began too fully. Women's struggle and class struggle were seen more as two sides of the same issue. It gave results. Women started their great commitment to knowledge, skills and professional life. The very essence of the ‘project equality’ has been and is to ensure women’s financial autonomy and the right to control their own lives. The welfare state is essential for an equal society. Good welfare arrangements have been established over time to enable both parents to combine work with care and family. This concerns the right to be at home with sick children, dismissal protection, reduced working hours, parental leave, kindergarten and nursing leave. In the mid-war period, most women in paid employment were unmarried and without children. Today, women with young children have a higher professional frequency than the average. Norway has, as the interpellant also mentioned, high birth rates compared to other western countries. So we can have both a high professional frequency among women and at the same time relatively high birth rates. Interpellant asks: What does equality mean for the welfare state? A simple answer is that without equality, the welfare state would not have been possible. It is primarily human resources that make Norway a rich country. The value of the labour force and knowledge of the Norwegian people is much greater than the value of the oil wealth. Human capital accounts for about four-fifths of national wealth. Good labour utilisation is therefore crucial for the living standards in Norway in the future. Continued wealth requires new generations, skilled labour and high employment. It is the very basis for value creation and the future welfare society. I want to claim that equality is value creation. We need to protect the welfare systems. Both parents have the right to make use of the well-being goods. It is particularly important that both parents are involved, both at home and at work, but today mother is still taking out parental leave and mother is reducing working time. This weakens the position of women in the labour market. Women's wage development is weakened when they have children and have long absences. Part-time provides lower income and weaker service provision. On the contrary, these structures also limit the possibilities of men and fathers. Human space for life expansion and quality of life is governed by opportunities for equal parenthood and the financial responsibility of men as dependants. The parent quota is a system that produces results. The father quota ensures that the father can take care of his own children and a legitimate part of a well-being. At the same time, the FF scheme strengthens the position of women in working life, for women have to go to work in order for their father to be able to take out his entire quota. The equality project must focus on the rights and opportunities of both sexes. I want to point to some key challenges that we're looking forward to. In the case of wages and salaries, differences in pay between women and men remain an issue of equality policy. The government has submitted a big-time report, Equal Opportunities for Equal Opportunities, to be dealt with in Stortingen in April now. In the Communication, we show that family and gender policies also have an impact on pay differentials. Power, in an economic and political sense, is another key. We are approaching gender balance in government, municipal and large corporations' boards, ASA, but leadership positions are dominated by men. We still have so-called women's governments with gender balance in government offices. But it seems to camouflage that the lack of gender balance, both in this room and especially in the municipalities, is present. Still, only one in four of the country's rapporteurs are women. Gender equality policy is absolutely about both sexes. Men too have advantages of an equal society. In the report on men and roles we presented in 2008, we showed that men's space for quality of life is also limited by our notions of gender and our expectations for women and men. As mentioned, with regard to women’s and men’s rights and opportunities, we have experienced major societal changes. Equality policy has played an important role in this process. In parallel with societal changes, gender equality policy must also be developed. The government has reduced the Equality Committee, which in 2012 makes recommendations on future gender equality policies in the light of ethnicity, life-cycle and class. We have a diverse society where people live together across cultures and different social backgrounds. Gender equality policy must relate to this diversity. This challenge, together with the objective of making gender equality policy relevant for both sexes, is an important overall challenge in the future. There is nothing here that has come ‘counting a mountain’. I am absolutely sure that we need to stay on in the years to come, in order to continue to develop both the welfare state and equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e319	I would like to thank the Council of State for taking a very good historical view of the women's struggle in Norway. What's a little interesting about this council of states is that she was in the middle of the storm in the 1970s and 1980s, and she can highlight the importance of this political struggle, and that there was, in fact, great resistance in Norwegian society to what these girls fought for. What's a little interesting is to see that what the Council of State and her opinion had to fight for today is taken for granted. I think it's interesting to go back to the municipal elections in 1971, which are called the women's coup. What was the cause of the woman's coup? Well, it was women in both the village and the city were tired of male municipal politicians sitting and saying no, we don't want to expand kindergartens, because women should be at home. But the girls would be active. They needed care if they were to have the opportunity to be economically active. Then they needed kindergarten places. Girls across all parties, from the Christian People's Party and the Right to the Workers' Party and SV, gathered in prayer houses and in good associations and set up the municipal lists to help more women get into municipal policy. It describes a little bit of what happened back then. The attitude was that women should be at home. But at the same time, we still have a little bit of the same attitude today. One can think of the following: When is a male top sportsman asked if it's not bad for him to be so much away from his children? It never happens. But a woman is always asked about it. When is a male commuter asked about how he organizes his family life? It never happens. But a woman is always asked about it. The same is true of male state councils. There are many male government councils in this government that have small children, but are they ever asked if it is difficult to combine work and children? The female state councils are immediately asked about it. It tells us that we still have a structure and attitudes in Norwegian society that suggest that there are women who should have the main care for children. A study from Agder shows that in the Agder counties, it is clearly believed that women should be responsible. So what I want to challenge is: how are we going to get alive these traditional gender roles that are still deep in us? I also want to challenge her who is responsible, among other things. for education, little by little: how are we going to be able to get the young, growing generation not to get into the locked-up sex role patterns? How do we get, among other things? Young boys and girls making untraditional choices in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e332	I can stress that both I and a lot of people in my generation have been involved in these games for quite many years. It is interesting what the interpellant mentions, that the women's coups, as it was called, which were in the 1970s – where they wanted a different gender composition in local government and several female rapporteurs – were among others. to lead me into municipal policy, and certainly many with me. Then they cumulated and crossed extra lines with women in municipal elections, because they wanted women in. I haven't regretted becoming a politician at that point in time. But we have some challenges: a lot of what women fought for that time, today is just as natural to talk about both men and women. I'm thinking about kindergarten development, I'm thinking about the importance of having a cultural effort in the communities, I'm thinking about road safety, I'm thinking about safe school paths. All this is today it's just as natural for men to talk about as for women. At that time, most women talked about it. So I think it's useful, but we have to be patient, and we have to fight on, because it's not just useful to sit down and believe that everything is in place, because it's definitely not. We still have some way to go, when we see that today it's just 38 pst. women in Stortinget and approximately the same percentage of local government. We are faced with a municipal election, and I hope – along with many others – that we get more women into municipal government, and therefore also into important governments and councils around the municipalities, than the 38 pst. We have today, and we have more female rapporteurs than the 23 pst. We have today. With regard to the concrete question of what we can do to motivate girls and boys to take other and untraditional career choices, we've come a long way with the girls. In fact, it is the case today that, in the case of humanly dominated professions, there are gradually more women taking part in these professions than there was a generation or two ago. The main problem is to get men to take typical women-dominated educations and occupations, for example: as a pre-school teacher or as a teacher at primary school. There are some important challenges there. We know that the real strategy among girls has some success, even though we're still doing it. The question is whether we can have similar strategies to make boys choose more untraditional and to choose more typical women's girls. This has something to do with pay – I am absolutely convinced of that, so the wage struggle has to go its own way – but it also has something to do with motivation and attitudes in society. We have a long way to go, but I think we're many enough who want the same thing and who can go that way together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e341	All over Europe, we are seeing major demonstrations today. People fear for their future, for their jobs. Many have had their future dreams shattered. In Norway, we see the opposite picture: a great deal of faith in the future and optimism. Does anyone think this is random? No, that's the result of politics. In Norway, we have a large public sector, a relatively high tax burden and well-functioning tripartite cooperation in the workplace. It creates stability, security, well-being and rapid adaptability. The Labour Party members of the Family and Culture Committee were last week in Italy, in Rome. Italy is among the countries with the lowest proportion of women at work. At the same time, it is among those countries with the lowest birthrates. They have high unemployment; among young people it is about 30 pst. But of those who have work, only one-fifth is in permanent employment. The rest is on temporary contracts or works free of charge. In Italy, they have been pursuing right-wing policies for many years. The whole history of the Workers' Party has been a coherent freedom project – for ordinary people, for workers, for women and for immigrants. The fight has been going on for a long time, and the fight continues, because we want a society where everyone has the opportunity to choose which life they want to live. The interpellant and the state councils have already faced some of the most central challenges we are facing. Let me just add: outside the Islamic Council – just in the vicinity – there is today a lonely woman and demonstrates freedom for homosexuals and transhumances within Islam. She's sitting alone. She meets contemptuous, unpleasant comments. It shows that the gender equality struggle continues to the highest degree and depends on the fact that we still have strong people who dare to stand alone and fight. It also shows that the concept of equality needs to be extended to include full freedom and equal opportunities for all — women and men, children, disabled persons, homosexuals, immigrants. This is our vision, this is our dream. It doesn't come of itself, and it has opponents. Throughout our history, we have had to pull the right side behind us in the fight for freedom for the individual, and we see that the fight we must continue. What is the contribution of the right-hand side to the gender equality debate in 2011? Well, they're going to eliminate the father quota, even though we know that fathers' withdrawals from parental leave are closely linked to the rights of fathers within the scheme, even though we know from figures from Denmark that the number of fathers who are at home is going to fall. They want less protection against dismissal and more temporary jobs, even though we know that women are already those who are at least related to working life, as we know how challenging this will be in terms of stability and opportunities for family planning, and yet we know that it will further increase the pay gap between women and men. They will implement changes in tax policy, but it is enough to look at Sweden and what results it has resulted in: Yes, we see that there are men who have largely benefited from tax relief policies for the bourgeois government in Sweden — it has led to increased differences between women and men. We also see that the health insurance and the changes that result in a maid's having to pay NOK 460 in a health insurance premium, while a doctor has to pay NOK 90. What is this contribution to smaller differences and more equality? No, the right side reminds me of the late breath, the late pig and the late cat in the adventure of the small, industrious, red hen that would bring these to plant wheat grain, care the fielder, cut the wheat, take the wheat to the miller, make the flour to bread, bake the bread and fry it. They wouldn't be there, because they had other things to do. But when you were going to eat the bread, the spirit, the pig and the cat were ready to enjoy the goods. Right is like the late breath, the pig and the cat: we had to do the job, and now they want to come and take credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e359	Today, we have an interpellation on gender equality and the political challenges facing Norway there. This is one thing that we're not going to end today, because we're probably going to discuss it quite many times this spring, and that's important. I want to thank the Council of State for a summary of the story. Looking at history, there has been an incredibly large development in Norway. What many of us take as a matter of course today is, as many people have been involved, something we can thank those women who stood on the barricades many years ago. I was in Ljubljana in May talking about Norway's equality policy, and it was a challenge for an opposition politician. But it went very well. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published a book called "Nora's Sisters", which shows the whole story of the women's struggle that has taken place. It is recommended to read. What emerged, and which was the challenge at the conference, were the different points of view you have. When so many gathered from all over the world, the main theme in view of the gender equality struggle today was violence and oppression of women. Then I must say that I am amazed to hear the debate so far. And it's probably not finished, because there's more coming after me. It's like the socialists take credit for the whole equality that's happened over the last few centuries. It's simply a big bluff. When you hear Stokkan-Grande, which refers to how terrible it is Sweden, that it is the right side that has been destroyed, and that if it had only been so well that the socialists had been ruled, it is amazing that the bourgeois government was re-elected in Sweden. And if I don't remember wrong, the socialists didn't do so very well in the election in Sweden. But that's not what we're going to discuss, we're going to discuss equality and the challenges we have today. When the interpellant talks about equality, it's just as if she's setting similarities between quota and feather quota and equality. And even if you have a slightly different angle of incidence on the right-hand side, a slightly different way of getting that equality, it's not saying that we're opposed to equality. The progress party is against quotas, but we're for equality. I have to say it was very good to read the report that came in the evening post in the previous outside. The model of equality that we have in Norway actually kills the career, and the Nordic model is completely slaughtered in the British report. Norwegian family policy is about to destroy women's ability to do careers, hijack top jobs and get better paid jobs. Then it is strange that the interpellant can say that this report is right in one thing — just one thing — and that is that Norway has a long way to go, but does not take into account all the facts that are actually presented in that report. Equality: Yes, it says the socialists are quota. Well, what has happened with regard to quotaing? I myself am part of the quota rule that came in 1995, when I was transferred to the local government. I'll just say that it's not a pleasant experience to be quotad into a position. But what is fact and shown in view of the quota rule introduced more than ten years ago is that it has not been successful. The parties are still striving to make women play an active role in politics. No more women have come into politics if you look at these years as a whole. I would say that this is not the right way, and the allocation rule has not been successful at all. Then it's the father's quota. Yes, the father's quota is being slaughtered in the report. The Prime Minister himself said that with regard to the federal quota, which the government will extend, it is going far into the privacy. So the interpellant says that we have challenges today: yes, we have many challenges, and I want to point to some of the challenges that we really have, and that concerns minority women today. The view of women that very many of the minority communities have today is really alarming and something that should really be addressed – violence and abuse against women. Female entrepreneurs should also be brought up and brought to justice. Then we actually have a problem with getting women to take top jobs, and that's getting women to look for top jobs. We have to do something about the attitudes out there among all of us, and not just quota and say that it's the feather quota that's the root of all the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e387	First I want to say that I think this is a little bit of a special interpellation. When representatives of the Workers' Party have the opportunity to debate major challenges facing society, they spend time hanging out individual parties, making false representations and claims and making a framework-based criticism that I have rarely heard of. I record that the Workers' Party wants to use interpellations for a petty debate like this. I think that's sad, but I'll leave it. On March 17th, 100 years have passed since the first female wholesaler, Anna Rogstad, took a seat in Stortinget. Anna Rogstad was elected Norway's first female alternate for the Old Aker circuit in Kristiana. She represented the Right. In 1921 Karen Platou, who also came from the Right, became the first woman to be elected as an ordinary staging representative in this house. It's historic. There are examples of real equality that have led the woman in the future, and that is what it is about in practice. So when the representative Gjul claims that the Right has never contributed to equality in Norwegian society, it falls on its own unfairness. The Councils of State also promote the courageous initiative of these Right-wing Representatives as historic milestones. Governments also promote another historic milestone, namely the quotaing of women under ASA regimes, including the initiative and implementation of a Right-wing Government. The representative, Gjuls interpellation and attempts to make the right side of the scapegoat are part of a strategy that has hatched on Youngstorget, and which I also see the Prime Minister today going out and hanging on: about the right side and how scary the right side is for the Norwegian welfare state and for the equality. I feel more that the representative Gjul criticises his own government. I feel that the representative Gjul is disappointed that the red-green government has not been more effective in this area. The representative calls for several brutal instruments. The representative calls for more of the instruments used by feminists in the 1970s — more quota, more coercion. It is clear that the Workers' Party will now have more of these instruments, and there have obviously been great expectations from many in the Workers' Party to the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government's Council of Lights: Finally, the red-greens would get a little swing over the Norwegian equality debate. But what do we see? Well, the government has made it its brand to put down selections. You put down a human panel, you put down a women's panel, you put down a equality committee. But unfortunately, it's getting very little out of it. Here are the red-green politicians calling for more coercion, more quota, more use of the law. But what do we see? People out there want more influence on their lives, they don't want politicians who decide which choices to make. So I feel more that this is an interpellation where you want to give – if I'm going to interpret the interpellant in the best sense – some challenges to your own government. Then we're just going to accept that you're using interpellations to go to the right and criticise it for what it's worth. Throughout history, the Right has shown that we have done great things for equality, and I hope that in the future we can solve the really big challenges together here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e402	Just for the historical facts to be in place, it was such that former Stable Representative Anna Rogstad did not represent the Right Party, she represented the Left Frisinde Party, who made a common list with the Right in that election.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e405	Being a feminist is about going to the front. The women's movement is one of the most important and perhaps the most successful movements of democracy in the world. For example, without the efforts of the feminist pioneers. Most of the debaters here today have not had the opportunity to participate. The right to vote, the right to education, to work, to maternity leave, to abortion and prevention are rights that many take for granted today. I agree with the Council of State and the interpellant that these are not rights that have come true for a mountain. This is the result of hard political struggles in which the pioneers have often been teased as unfemale and as bad mothers. The first kindergarten requirements were met with posters with pictures of kids in the infirmary, where it said, «Where is mother?» Fortunately, we have come a long way since that time. It is the result of a hard political struggle and the will to bring the law and the state into use in that fight. The right-hand side has often called this contemptible for state feminism: the left-hand side will govern the lives of people and restrict freedom of choice, is a well-known lamentation. Then they jump over the fact that it is precisely this policy that has guaranteed people more freedom and more power and influence over their own lives. Let me add that the Norwegian tax policy does not just re-distribute between the richest in Norway and the common people. It also redistributes between genders, for the richest in Norway are men. The tax policy of the right-hand side is anti-female. Last year, a group of feminists gathered and discussed equality at a conference. They correctly pointed to the lack of power in «similar» Norway, the overrepresentation of white men at all political levels between the ages of 40 and 60, and the accumulation of power among these men, as well as the fact that three out of four leaders in working life are men. This is a description and an analysis I agree with, but it is also a description that obliges. The representative of Greece characterises the debate here today and is dissatisfied with the fact that the left-hand side criticises the right-hand side of equality policy. But this is the central debate. What is equal to? What kind of suggestions do you have? What kind of proposals do the right-hand side have if the right-hand side agrees with the analysis that Norway is not equal? That requires action. If the right-hand side is against quotas, they have to make some other proposals. Well, change in attitude is really nice, but it'll take 100 years before we get equality. We need to be willing to discuss quota, feather quota and statutory rights and to use the welfare state and tax system for redistribution. In the 1970s, women across the parties raised the issue of women in many municipalities. I like to go in cross-political cooperation, but then the right-hand side has to stop talking and be willing to find out the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e420	I would first like to thank the interpellant Gunn Karin Gjul for taking the initiative for an equality debate in Stortinget. Equality is about human dignity. Our whole democracy is based on the idea of human dignity. It is therefore a fundamental battle for fundamental values in Norwegian democracy and society. It is based on the idea that women and men have equal value and have the same opportunities, obligations and rights. Gender shall not prevent anyone from participating in the influence of different parts of society. In an equal society, there must be respect for the individual's choice of lifestyle, education and work. In the last 100 years, Norwegian society has evolved into one of the world's most equal societies. Norway was among the first countries in the world to guarantee all women the right to vote in elections. In several areas, however, there is still a lot to be done before we have full equality. The study of power and democracy, presented in 2003, shows that the dominance of human beings in senior management positions is strong. 16 pst. of leadership positions occupied by women, 84 pst. of men. Women have always taken primary responsibility for children. Although there is still a long way to go, over the course of one generation, there has been an approximate revolution in which the man has gradually come more on the track. In the 1970s and 1980s, while women's roles have undergone major changes, we have also seen major changes in the role of men over the past two decades. Another major challenge for gender equality is violence and abuse. The women's panel pointed out in its report, among other things: that women are more exposed to serious partner violence and rape. Equality in minority settings is also a major challenge that requires more attention in the years to come. In terms of pay and retirement, there are still major inequalities between the sexes. Men earn more and get more in retirement, and women earn less and get less in retirement. It is also true that employment in Norway is gender-divided, and that the professions which are women-dominated are less paid than the professions which are man-dominated. Women serve less systematically than men in comparable professions. The fight for equal pay is important, as is the fight against involuntary part-time. Therefore, service provision is also so important for unremunerated care. The overall objective is that everyone should be financially independent, both in working life and at retirement age. It is therefore important to facilitate the combination of work and care for children. This is precisely why parental leave, cash support and all the other rights of the Swedish Social Security Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Equal Opportunities Act are so important, which in various ways ensure the right to adapt working life to family life and thus ensure that men and women are not forced out of working life when they have children. Then women continue to experience dismissal and pass over because of pregnancy and parental leave, while men experience discrimination, especially in the case of withdrawal of parental leave. Then it's highlighted from many that the federal ratio still has a big impact on equality. I fully agree with that, and the Christian People's Party is therefore in charge of the struggle to maintain the father's quota. At the same time, however, it is a paradox that in a matter that has been dealt with by the Stortinget and for which the interpellant himself was the case rapporteur, the Children's Act has been amended, so that children now have to have a mother, but no longer need to have a father, Section 4 of the Children's Act. It's a paradox, and you can ask yourself the question of whether it shows that it's not primarily the fight for women and the fight for equality that's important, but the struggle to stand at the top of the line where the wind blows at any time, no matter what it means for women. I also think it is important to remember that it is important to measure the position of women and men in society in value creation, gross domestic product and traditional economic terms. At the same time, Norway is not a factory. Norway is a community, a society where it's about taking care of each other. This is why it is about facilitating a family life and working life as a whole. The interpellant noted that top athletes, state councils and others experience that the male ones are not asked about how they get time to combine the demanding positions with family life. I hope no one stops asking women about it, but I hope you start asking men about it, because we actually need to get boys on the track, as it's been said, and we're going to facilitate a society that's equal and where it's good to be men, women and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e444	First, thank you to the interpellant, who is raising an important issue. When the Right calls for other issues to have been raised here in the Chamber that are even more important, I think it is very illustrative for who prioritises and who prioritises gender equality. Value creation and women are an important topic for debate. The Labour Party has always believed, and believes, in equal opportunities for everyone. To do that, we have to have an orderly working life. An orderly working life is one of the greatest successes of good value creation in society. An orderly working life helps to give secure lives, and safe lives contribute to giving courageous people. Good health provides security and opportunities to create values. Good health comes when there is equal access to healthcare. Women of the labour movement have a long history of winning in health, work, care and education. At the end of the 19th century, one of the most famous strikes in our history, the Kristianianians started. October 23rd in 1889 they spontaneously stopped the work. What they were at risk was actually living a life of poverty and not having income. It was morbidity, and they actually risked the whole family dying because they chose to quit work to improve working conditions. Mrs. Glass Master Olsen from Kristiansand went from man and child to Kristiana to participate in the strike. I think I can say it was a mild uprising that fucked over the South at that time! But at least 300 kroner were collected for the strike. Ellisiv Wessel, who died in 1949, is another example. She fought a hard fight to improve the living conditions of poor people in North Norway. She was a socialist, radical and courageous. In 2013, we're going to have four general voting rights, but do we have equality? The right-hand side will leave to the market to regulate this, and they call it freedom of choice. But we see constant attacks on schemes that actually give freedom of choice. Young Right will now weaken the protection against dismissal, the Right Party and the Advance Party will weaken the role of the trade union movement by attacking the right to negotiate, and they will weaken essential labour regulations – what in fact many courageous women stood on the barricades to fight. Those who need such a framework the most are those who are currently struggling to enter the labour market. It is the low-paid women without higher education who live in places with few or no alternative jobs. The framework of society is important. It contributes to changing attitudes. The framework of society provides just freedom and freedom of choice for more than the market has ever been able to create. The focus on attitudes has provided a financial framework for research such as: Rafoss kindergarten in Kvinesdal is an example. They've looked at how gender differences occur already in childhood, how boys are much more addressed with first names, and how boys get priority when they get into a group, which is not true for girls, who don't get the same attention. So it's related to how political parties choose to use the economic framework. We see in the sex-shared labour market that women lose. There is increased use of temporary employment, increased morbidity, and lower wages in those areas where there is a high proportion of female employees. The Progress Party and the Right believe that we should not have any government governance or state interference, but I have not heard one single example of instruments that have actually worked or of instruments that they believe will work, except that they do not want any of these instruments that the left-hand side presents. The Progress Party also pointed to attitudes in ethnic minority communities related to gender equality. It is amazing that in Kristiansand City Government, the Progress Party has seven men and two ladies. I wonder what position it represents in the electoral mass of the Advance Party? Of course, the feminist is also in the Right. Of course, it is not individual positions we are discussing. We are discussing the political directions that have raised the issue of instruments. There's the left-hand side completely sovereign. One of the main tools will be to get fathers on the road more. I'm going to end -- I'm not going to sing -- by quoting some lines from a Swedish song: "Daddy came home! For I long for you Come before summer your end little dad."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e477	We're all the main characters in our own lives, even though we don't always dare to admit it. Organizing, planning, and not least living in the way that we think is best, is something we at any time will try to do. The task of social-democratic policy is to facilitate that the most possible can do just that. Sometimes it is not enough to fix it, sometimes we have to kick some doors in. That's why I created state feminism. The representative Horne instead said it's a bluff that socialists are going to take the credit for equality. With respect to reporting, who in every day is going to take the time to make us equal here in the country? In any case, it is not the Progress Party that has consistently voted against everything we have proposed that has worked. State feminism is the sum of all the measures taken in the fight to ensure that opportunities are available to the greatest possible extent. State feminism is kindergartens, longer maternity leave and a safer future. This has sparked women, men, children and Norway's society. Therefore, this should continue and be further developed. We don't like it yet. The job is not done even if you keep getting it right by those who have not experienced sexual orientation. That's why a number of people say they're not feminists because they don't feel they need to be. Before a person comes out to work and has a family, it is quite unlikely that there are gender differences in Norway, that there are paychecks, and that there are brake blocks to realize his dreams. Everything else is so modern. We are the world's most equal country, we are the world's best country to live in, and then it's 2011 and everything! That's why one feels that it's quite unlikely that we have so far left – it's so unreal that a good thing not to believe in it until it's too late. The vision of getting the most out of the way is the greatest enemy possible is just these devices - the equality individualization. Media gives speaking time to well-situated ladies with all the world's time, who say they're not feminists because they've never been oppressed. There is not a problem in itself, but there is a problem when the parties on the right create policies for them. The equality debate needs a solidarity-wake up call. Equality must be the only well-being area where a good fish takes on that some few are doing well, we should stop building on schemes that are needed for most. I don't have kids in kindergarten, nor do I have parents in a nursing home, but of course I see the value of investing in it, both in kindergarten and in a nursing home. A few tall voices are the quietest enemy of the plural. Not surprisingly, Gro Harlem Brundtland has said something about this. Simonsen and Yssen refer in their book to a quotation from Gro Harlem Brundtland once she was guest at Skavlan – a program I don't see, but it's good that someone does it for me: "I have never felt depressed. But when I was 15, I discovered that some other women were, and then I became a feminist." We make policies that most people get the best possible, not to meet the fact that they don't want to be well-being. And there's no doubt that it has worked, but we're not in the goal. The women own at least, we feel at least, and we have the biggest barriers to climbing to make life look like we want it to do. I want to thank the interpellant Gjul for opening up this important debate, and I look forward to righting the Council of State's thoughts on how we should succeed in the fight to get the same starting point. The representative of Hofstad Helleland said today that she thought this debate was sad. I thought that the whole Right's way of discussing equality, and all their rhetoric in this area, is sad, if that's what we're going to start talking about. I think it's sad that Right is about to make people think that equality comes about us'sjoiners' for ourselves. It doesn't. Let this debate be between those who want something about equality. The Right Party and the Progress Party have recently, as well as historically, by being for more expensive kindergartens and against paperpapers, so that they graduate out of this debate that I hope that in the future they will let us who are occupied with the future talk in peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e508	This debate has actually revealed what I started my speech with, that there is a big difference in the view of equality between the right and the left of Norwegian policy. Now it's like this that everyone wants to take credit for what we've achieved in Norway, and it's not so strange, because there are people from many countries who travel to Norway, and who look to Norway, to look at: what have they done in this small country, who have managed to get the high professional participation among women, while this country's women are giving birth to more children than anyone else? Here they must have done something that many others have not realized, and of course they will all be taking credit for. But the point is that if you're going to achieve equality in a country, you have to have some tools, and you have to put in place measures, popular and unpopular, and that's what these girls have done for equality in the 1970s and 1980s. They have been willing to fight for effective action. That's the same thing as the right-hand side. If the right-hand side's policy had been chosen at the time when Tora Aasland and many others fought for equality, we would have been at the same level as very many other European countries in the development of equality. We would be on the level with Germany and Italy, who have washed their hands and let market forces and social development rule it. But we didn't want that. We wanted to get a development where women had the opportunity to be active, could participate both in universities and colleges and in society in the same way as men. I fully agree with the representative, Hope, that this is about equivalency, that all people should have the same opportunities to participate. Then to the debate on quotaing. This hall would have looked completely different if not parties like the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Workers' Party had used sex quota. But I believe that none of the girls sitting in this room from those parties feel that they are some worse parliamentarians than the male ones. But it's about these girls being seen in these parties. It has been avoided that only half of the membership has been elected unilaterally and thought: No, women, they probably can't be political, they can't sit there. An important part of democracy that the Right Party and the Advance Party must realize is that if we're going to get on with it, if we're going to get more democracy, if we're going to get more equality, we're going to have to see both of our people, not just the male part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e519	There has been an interesting debate, even in the sense that not least the Right has shown the same way of dealing with gender equality as has been done in all generations. There have always been clear feminists in the Right who have worked for the independence of women. But when it comes to it, the party has been opposed to a lot of the reforms that would really create more gender equality. For example, the right was the maximum price in kindergartens and full kindergarten coverage. It was one of the most important things we had in the 1970s to promote equality. With regard to the large kindergarten agreement in Stortinget, which Interestingly was part of the Progress Party, you also went along with it, but counter-stranding. And it's certainly been a characteristic of much of what the Right has been for too long. I want all parties to participate in the important gender equality challenges. I think we deserve it, but we are also served by a debate where different values appear, of course we are. Some of the things that have been the big reforms, we've all been about. Some of the reforms, and not so few of them, have depended on some brave ones having gone ahead. In fact, I agree with the representative Horne of the Progress Party that two of the main challenges we face in the future on gender equality are oppression and violence against women and including women from other cultures in important work for equality. I fully agree with that. But at the same time, I deeply disagree with her view of quotaing. She doesn't take into account that there's actually quotaing that has led to a better balance, after all, in big and in governments and councils, not least in the governments of the business world. There has also been a cross-political starting point for this, but the Progress Party has always been against quotaing, in any case. I feel no discomfort at all by being an inquotated politician. I have been there for many years, and it seems that it has been a great opportunity for women to be involved and influence the political agenda both in local government and in the Stortinget. What's the way forward now, I think we have to continue the discussion. We have to keep dealing with e.g. reports such as the London School of Economics, which was also mentioned here, where the main focus of the researcher concerned was to get more women into top positions in the business world, while the same researcher was not particularly concerned about the breadth and diversity of Norwegian work and education, and that we have a large proportion of women in the working life – in paid work. We need both more research and more commitment in the future, and we need more debates of the kind we've had here in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e534	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e550	Tomorrow afternoon, Queen Sonja will open Barent's 2011 Spectacle. This year's festival is a new strong manifestation of a raging development and increasing activity across the Norwegian-Russian border in the north. Culture and nutrition go hand in hand through the Barents Spectacle programme, which also accommodates exciting arenas for debate on how Norway and Russia can jointly explore and exploit key natural resources in the region, for the benefit of the population. All those who have followed the developments in the churches see that the city is changing and increasingly influenced by its neighbourhood to Russia. The entry of Russians has become so significant that the city is, of course, separated bilingually: in Norwegian and in Russian. There can hardly be any doubt that the breakthrough in the part-line negotiations and the introduction of the border crossing certificate will create further dynamics in the area. On the Norwegian side, we know that the Oil Directorate already has the means and plans to start mapping the new base area up to the margin line, only the sharing line agreement has been ratified in Stortinget and Dumaen. Today's lively traffic across Storskog border station is in stark contrast to the situation only a few years ago. Murmanian states have a population of nearly 1,000,000 and constitute an exciting local market, seen with our eyes. Many Norwegian — also Norwegian — establishments have already been discovered, and Russia is for example. one of our most important export markets for fish. With more open borders in the north, there will be completely different opportunities in the future – opportunities for today’s young people should be seized. A key question then is: how well is Norway and our northernmost part of the country rusted up to further develop Norwegian-Russian relations and create new industries and more jobs? What about our language skills in Russian and our understanding of Russian culture and behavior? It's about being able to get better into the counterparty's thinking and being able to imagine a not too distant future where one makes less dependent on the interpreter as an intermediary in any context. The government has made the northern regions its main strategic area of interest, with knowledge and infrastructure as important building blocks. It is in the extension of this that I will now challenge the Minister of Knowledge to use an expanded concept of infrastructure where languages as a means of communication can also be given a place. On the right, the government will specifically encourage the launch of a special initiative in Russian language training in northern Norway to speed up cooperation between northern Norway and north-west Russia. In advance of this debate, I have tried to get an overview of training provision in Russian in the three northernmost states. It was easier said than done. The truth is that there is currently no overall overview. After obtaining information from the three education directors, the municipality of South Varanger and the municipality of Troms, there is a picture of a training offer in Russian much based on fires and coincidences, with one honest exception: the municipality of South Varanger, where training offers in Russian as the second foreign language work well in the system. The churches today offer Russian from primary to higher education. However, the interest in language seems low in secondary education, and this is worrying. While today there are 63 primary school students in South Varanger who have Russian as second foreign language, corresponding numbers are only 12 high school students. At the higher level, the University of Finnmark offers studies in Russian and now has 19 students in Kirkenes. We know that a total of 110 primary school students in Finnmark have Russian as second foreign language. I do not have information about other offers in Finnmark. If we go to Northland and Troms, there's some kind of fast-paced experiment with Russian, without any long-term plan behind it. It is often not clear whether students who start with Russian can continue with the subject at a higher level. This is hardly lucky and can negatively affect students' motivation. Some Russian services are also vulnerable because access to teachers is still an uncertainty. The uncertainty associated with the ability to move on in the profession and to obtain qualified teachers, we have to get away from it. Right-wing believes that development agreements must be concluded with municipalities that want to invest in more untraditional foreign languages, such as Russian. The idea is to ensure the recruitment of qualified teachers and to find student-oriented measures that motivate more people to choose Russian and to continue language training at the transition either to the youth or to higher education. Language training is an important gateway to better cultural understanding and to providing an even better basis for future cooperation between peoples and countries. If the Minister of Knowledge agrees with the Right that it will be strategically important to increase language skills in Russian in general and in Northern Norway in particular, will the Government be involved in developing measures that can help to provide start-up training in Russian in many more municipalities in the north? Important measures to stabilise a new education offer will be teacher training grants and additional grants to selected municipalities that will invest in Russian as a second foreign language. Exchange schemes and exchange grants for pupils and students should be in place. In this context, I would like to point out that the secondary school offer in Murmansk under the authority of the County of Troms should be guaranteed permanent State co-financing in line with the Moscow School run by Akershu County. Current student funding problems for these high school students also need to be solved. The development of good Russian skills from high school will in the long term enable several Norwegian young people to take higher education at Russian educational institutions. I have heard that Minister of Industry Trond Giske is also concerned about. While the number of Russian students in Norway has increased considerably, not the same can be said of the number of Norwegian students in Russia. There is reason to believe that the lack of language skills in Russian constitutes a major barrier and may be the most nearby explanation of the lab's interest in studying in Russia. The Russians who come here have usually studied Norwegian and master the language when they come. In a global world, good language skills can be a competitive advantage. Therefore, it is positive when the government has initiated attempts at the second foreign language of the child. In Mo in Rana, Lyngheim school is now starting to start in Russian in 6th grade. The reason for choosing Russian was that the municipality of Rana has a Russian city of friendship, and there the students are going to travel when they get to the seventh grade. In the Day Revy we could recently see the Russian teacher, who is himself Russian, in action. The students had now learned the Cyrillic alphabet and their first little sentences in Russian. They were full of enthusiasm, and the planned Russian tour was obviously a great motivation. According to the director of education in Nordland, there are no secondary schools in the county offering of Russian. Lack of teachers is believed to be the reason why training in Russian is virtually absent from initial training in Northern Ireland, according to the director of education. I'm aware that at least in Troms there have been offers of Russian at secondary school in Tromsø. As has been said, the County Council has established a Norwegian-Russian secondary school offer in Murmansk that currently has 15 students. In higher education, different study facilities are available in Russian, both in northern Norway and elsewhere in Norway. The problem is student access when so few students have had the opportunity to choose the subject earlier in school. So here's a missing link. From the education director in Finnmark, we are told that, through his Northern Region initiative, he has initiated his own actions, including: the ‘Barents Pilots’ project, which are young people travelling to primary and secondary schools to disseminate information on the benefits of studying and cooperating with Russia. Other known actions include people-to-people cooperation and student-to-student exchanges to improve knowledge and knowledge of the opportunities and neighbouring countries in the east. It also stimulates cooperation projects to encourage Russian language training in school, but we know that the results have not been as far as we might have liked. It is clear that Finland, with its common border with Russia, as a host to the Barents Secretariat and with physical meeting places such as the Barents Spectacle, has come further in terms of training provision in Russian than the other two Nordic states. If we look at the part of the country as a whole, the absence of a comprehensive and long-term strategy for investing in Russian languages is very striking. This is the background of today's interpellation. It is therefore my hope that the Minister of Knowledge and an overall government will take the initiative to facilitate an offensive effort in Russian with a main focus on the northernmost part of the country, including. recruitment grants for teachers and grants for setting up continuous training courses from primary schools in a selection of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e603	There are enormous opportunities for development in the contact between Norway and Russia at all levels, both culturally and nutritionally, after we have put the divider line in place, and after we have also received a border settlement certificate, which can lead to much greater activity across the line. I share the interpellant's optimistic tone as to what opportunities lie in this area. I also share the inter-pellant's view that the language, i.e. better knowledge of Russian on the Norwegian side and better knowledge of Norwegian on the Russian side, will be an important factor for success in this area. So I thank you for the opportunity to say something about what we're doing, and to discuss how we can develop this further. Nothing is better than whether the Storting together is concerned about this. I can start by informing you that right now, representatives of the Education Directorate of the County of Finnmark are precisely to discuss how to develop this cooperation that we now have between Norway and Russia, better. I'll come back to that a little bit. There is extensive cooperation in education and research with Russia at both institutional and grassroots level. Since the beginning of the 1990s, cooperation has changed character from being aid-oriented to being highly professionally interesting cooperation between more equivalent partners and with mutual interest. In connection with President Dmitrij Medvedev's visit to Norway last April, the Education Cooperation Agreement was renewed and signed by the State Council of Tora Aasland for the Ministry of Knowledge and by a representative of the Ministry of Education and Science in Russia. Article 3 of the Agreement provides: ‘The Parties will cooperate to organise training in Russian and Norwegian languages and literature at higher education institutions in the following ways: – hosting, training of specialists in Russian and Norwegian languages and literature – further training of teachers – development of educational methodological material.’; There is already relatively widespread cooperation between Norwegian and Russian institutions, and the Ministry of Knowledge believes that the majority of the instruments covered by the agreement are already in place by the Norwegian side, including: through the quota system, the North Sea tipping and cooperation programme with Russia. The agreement refers to a specific number of exchanges and scholarships. This has been done to meet the management on the Russian side, which is dependent on this to trigger funds. From the Norwegian side, the main purpose of the agreement is to engage Russian side at authority level in order to achieve a balance of engagement and resource intervention. Russian students are now the second largest group of foreign students in Norway after German, and in the autumn of 2009 about 980 Russian students were registered with Norwegian higher education institutions. The corresponding number of students isn't registered the other way around, so here we've faced a challenge. Both the students who remain at the institution as professional or administrative staff, and those who return to their home country, contribute to strengthening the cooperation relations between our two countries. The Agreement provides for the establishment of a joint working group at ministerial level to draw up recommendations and proposals for cooperation and to analyse the implementation of joint training projects and programmes. This will be an important forum to ensure progress, further development and follow-up of the agreements. As the representative of Aspaker rightly points out, we have common challenges and interests in the north in several disciplines, increasing the need for language skills in Russian and Norwegian. It is therefore important to continue and further develop the cooperation established between schools in north-west Russia and schools in the northernmost countries, particularly Finnmark. The County of Finnmark has extensive experience with a wide range of projects and cooperation between schools and students in Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and North-West Russia, anchored in three-year strategy plans. A revised 2006–2010 strategy plan will continue work from the previous plan, from 2003–2005. And right now, the programmes and projects that have been implemented to develop new cooperation projects are being considered. In the 2011 sector’s mission it is stated that the County of Finnmark will draw up a new comprehensive plan based on the government’s Northern Region Strategy for initial training. This shall be done in cooperation with the County of Nordland and Troms respectively. As I was told, the Education Directorate today, 1 February 2011, is at the County Council of Finnmark and discusses this cooperation involving authorities, schools and other actors on both sides of the border. Training on and in each other's languages has been an important part of school cooperation and is strengthened in the further work. The Directorate will emphasise that the further efforts will be in line with the government’s Northern Region Strategy, with priority in languages – Russian, Finnish, Sami – and the arts and culture field. It may be appropriate for the counties to cooperate with the professional communities of national centres, such as the Arts and Culture Centre and the Foreign Language Centre. Russian languages are offered in initial and higher education on a national basis. In the spring of 2010 there were 69 high school students who passed the exam in Russian on five different codes broken down into 28 places of study. Russian is also offered in primary school, but there are not central tests at this level, so we do not have central figures for how many are covered by this offer. In this case, it must be obtained from the individual school owners, i.e. the municipalities. A very special investment in education in Russian language and culture is the Moscow School. It was established as a cooperation project between Akershu County and the State Russian Academy of Sciences in August 1994 and is part of an ordinary Russian school. The Moscow School provides both Norwegian and Russian students with approved diplomas according to Norwegian and Russian rules. The main intention of the Russian side was to create an arena for educational research and development based on the Scandinavian model and to ensure Russian youth access to the Norwegian and Western university systems. From the Norwegian side, emphasis was placed on the opportunities for educational development and to train Norwegian youth with competence in Russian languages and culture. Students who are graduates have formal study competence in both the Norwegian and Russian higher education systems. Twenty Russian students are admitted every year. In addition, there is capacity to raise 15 Norwegian students per year, but there are not so many applicants for admission. For 2010, it is set at 1.3 million. kr for this school cooperation, and the Russian State contributes equivalent amounts. I have chosen to describe the cooperation that is established, because it shows that it has been well equipped to establish and develop special language programmes, in line with Aspacer's questions. The Department of Knowledge has ongoing cooperation with the Norwegian Consulate-General in Murmansk, and one of our senior advisors is a host there now, just to gain a better understanding of how cooperation works, and how we are going to proceed with new initiatives. The big challenge, and I hope that this interpellation can contribute here, is to increase the interest among students in taking Russian language, and the earlier they start showing that interest, the better it is. It is quite obvious that we have challenges both in teaching capacity in primary school, and, not least, in the transition from primary school to secondary school and from secondary school to secondary school, especially because we expect the interest to be highest in the three northernmost states. There will be a close link between the secondary schools in which students attend and the secondary schools in which they attend, and a link in the provision of Russian language training needs to be made. It's a pretty big challenge to do this, so you can be sure that you can continue if you start with Russian as a second language in primary or secondary school. It's a challenge that I'm taking with me. I agree with the starting point of the interpellant, that there's something connected here. Of course, you hesitate to choose Russian in high school if you don't know that you have a reasonable chance of going on in high school, and of course you'll hesitate to create such an offer in high school if you don't know that you have access to students from high school who have just chosen Russian as second foreign language. I take with me in the further work the proposals that the representative of Aspaker is raising here today, because I think we need to have an effort that is on a broad scale. We have to make sure that we get the interest up and then look at what we can do through more targeted programmes, whether it's about scholarships or other instruments. We take it with us to the working group that we have set up, which is to assess the available offers and, if necessary, the need for new instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e650	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. We obviously very much agree that here we have great opportunities. It's about arresting them, and it's about preparing us to be able to seize opportunities that are probably just going to be even bigger as the split line agreement is finally over, and it's really about developing both the natural resources, the tearing down of cooperation in the field of research and fisheries management. There are a lot of different sectors in Norway that have worked closely with Russia. It is important that we now do things to communicate also linguistically, which means that we get under the skin of the Russians and understand how they think, how they act, in order even better to be able to care for our own interests. The Council of State also stated that both the counties and municipalities of Northern Norway have special relations with Russia, which means that it does not matter what competence you have in this area. I want to say that the business community also has a great responsibility now to make the benefits of Northern Norwegian, and Norwegian, young people will have to bet on getting Russian as part of their competence in the future. The head of Innovation Norway in Troms, Svein Berg, said that understanding culture is the prerequisite for doing business. Good cultural understanding I think you'll get to if you've also spoken with yourself as an input to it. Governments were concerned about this with the imbalance in student traffic between the two countries. It's a challenge. It is quite clear that the Russians see that there are opportunities here in Norway, and then we must also try to help our young people and future generations see the opportunities that lie in Russia. I also want to challenge the Council of State that Russian students in Norway can actually be a valuable resource. Maybe we should use them in a way that ambassadors and informers and influence against Norwegian youth so that they can more fully perceive and learn to see what Russia, our great neighbour, is, and what it represents of opportunities? We also know that Russia is very strong and very good in the real science disciplines. There are obviously also disciplines in which our students could study and have benefited greatly from it. At least I conclude with, after hearing the council here, that yes, there are many things going on, but there's kind of no heaven or any umbrella over this. I want to underline what I was in the beginning, that here it is called on a little bit more strategy and overall thinking to make sure that we can offer Russian languages more places.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e661	I seem to notice that the representative Aspaker was almost entirely satisfied, but not entirely. I take that as a small challenge – to have something to go after. Obviously, there are always opportunities for improvement almost at all levels, but here we have a systematic work going on, and we have to try to expand it. What we need in the first place is to arouse the interest of Norwegian youth in Russia, to see what opportunities lie there, what enormous cooperation opportunities are there, and what opportunities lie in the labour market in the future. I was in Kirkenes last week to get New GIV started in Finnmark. Finnmark has special challenges in implementing secondary education. There I met, among others. a class that went on the construction line, and they had been in Arkhangelsk on their way. When we talk about the exchange of students and students, and about who uses Russian language, etc., we have to think in broad terms. Here, too, there will be many with professional letters and other types of competence than colleges and universities that benefit from having good knowledge of Russian language and culture. For our purpose, there will be a more common labour market between Russia and Norway in this area, and the more knowledge and knowledge we have, the better it is. So let's expand the perspective to also focus on skilled workers and the entire business world. I very much agree with Mr Aspaker that for business there are some possibilities here that are untapped and that have enormous potential. The more you talk to business people, the more fun stories you can hear about what misunderstandings about culture and traditions can lead to. At best fun stories, in the worst case, that contracts are lost, and that cooperation opportunities are not developed further. I take with me the commitment that Elisabeth Aspaker has, the concrete suggestions that she promotes in terms of thinking scholarships for teachers, etc., but also that of thinking about a more holistic course from primary to secondary education – and adding an extended perspective in relation to what professional groups it might be that have an interest in both culture and increased language understanding. I think that with such a broad approach, we can translate the commitment that is now on many teams into a more strategic level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e670	Developments in Russia are of major importance to Norway. In the North, together with Finland, we share the border with Russia, and the Baltic Sea and the Barents Sea bind all the Nordic countries together with our great neighbour in the East. For Norway, it is important to contribute to the further development of relations with Russia in order to contribute to the creation of growth and stability in northern Europe. Our cooperation with Russia must be involved and contribute to, inter alia: democratic development in the country. There is no doubt that our cooperation with Russia is becoming more important with regard to Norwegian business, people-to-people cooperation, and in the field of culture and education. Through my membership of the Nordic Council, I have become familiar with Nordic cooperation with Russia, and especially North-West Russia. The aim of cooperation is to promote democratic social development, open pluralistic relations across borders and create conditions for economic cooperation and trade. The Nordic Council of Ministers' knowledge and networking programme is the flagship in the efforts of North-West Russia. The aim of this programme is to build knowledge and promote networking within public administration, education and research, economic development and society. The Nordic Council cooperates closely with our parliamentary colleagues in Moscow and North-West Russia. This cooperation has two overall objectives. The first concerns the relationship in northern Europe. There is a great difference in welfare and living conditions between the countries participating in the EU and the EEA and those not. The Nordic Council, in cooperation with Russian parliamentarians, is working to overcome this limit and to gradually wipe out the welfare gap. The second objective is to address the major challenges facing northern Europe: the situation, climate and living conditions of the Baltic Sea in the Arctic and the Barents region, international crime, trafficking in human beings, infrastructure development, health, social well-being, to mention something. As I see it, the Nordic Council has an important role to play in strengthening parliamentary relations with Russia and taking political initiatives in these areas. I myself have participated in the younger parliamentary assembly for the Nordic countries and North-West Russia last spring in the Churchnes. This meeting is to be held in Arkhangelsk this year. This is a great Nordic initiative to strengthen cooperation between younger people – «younger» in a political context does not necessarily mean young people, it can be a broad concept – parliamentarians and politicians at different levels across borders. It is important to meet to discuss common challenges and how our countries can be more closely linked to each other. It's instructive, and it's important. During this collection, which was the second in the series, there was no doubt that the border settlement certificate was a heart issue for our Russian friends, and it was therefore very pleasing that this came into place shortly after the collection. It is also appropriate to refer to the major language problems that such a collection naturally poses, and the representative Aspaker pointed out those language challenges in a good way. Language is very important. It is one of the most important tools for better functioning our cooperation across the borders of Russia. We have a number of cooperation agreements, as explained by the Council of State, both in the field of training in Russian and Norwegian languages and literature at higher education institutions. There are good hospitation schemes and further training of teachers in Russian languages. There is also widespread cooperation between Norwegian and Russian institutions. I am particularly familiar with the quota student scheme at the Narvik University. These students have been an important community resource for 15 years. It is interesting to note that Russian students now make up the second largest group of foreign students in the country as a whole. As represented by Aspaker, it is important that we view them as resources, as ambassadors, and that we make greater use of their knowledge of their own country. I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing this issue and give us the opportunity to discuss how cooperation with Russia can be further improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e689	I would like to thank the representative of Aspaker for bringing up this important debate on Russian language programmes. In her statement, she showed that there is no complete offer of this, and the Minister of Knowledge was also very concerned that we need to look at a comprehensive education course in Russian language. The northern regions will be Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years. The policy of the North shall ensure the environment, housing and industrial development. Among the main political priorities of the government's strategy are the following: regional economic development further development of people-to-people cooperation in North strengthening cooperation with Russia In order to facilitate the achievement of these objectives of the strategy, it is important to be able to talk and understand each other’s culture. It is essential. Facilitating Russian language teaching in the northernmost part of the country from primary school will be a real prerequisite for good and understandable communication, especially if it is considered that the northern regions should become one of the spearheads of Norwegian economic development. There are many businesses from all over the country who have high expectations of the possibility of establishing themselves there. In the long term, it may not be unreasonable for Russians to become a compulsory electoral profession in primary school in the same way as other electoral subjects we have. Already today some Norwegian companies have established themselves in Murmansk, among others. The beer Concrete from Rogaland, and there will certainly be more establishments in connection with the fact that the cooperation climate between Norway and Russia has now become much better than it was a few years ago. With the high levels of oil, gas and fisheries in the northern regions, it is important to further develop cooperation in several areas, such as the management of fishing resources, the environment, health and maritime sectors. Nor is it unknown that there is a great deal of tension to whether it is opened up for gas and oil drilling in the north. If studies show that this is safe to open up, there will be safe existing jobs as well as new jobs for the country and for Norway. All of this requires that we understand each other, and then language is an important prerequisite. The Progress Party has noted that the dialogue between Norway and Russia has improved considerably. This shall be recognised by the Government. Even today, 1.2 billion is being invested. on various measures in the north, including: Twenty million. kr new FRAM centre to market Tromsø as a knowledge-based city. The Progress Party is in favour of current efforts in different areas of the north, but sees the importance of further government spending on training in Russian languages already from primary school. That is why it was very good to be informed by the Minister of Knowledge that the people of the Ministry of Knowledge are already present today and in dialogue on the possibility of creating a fully Russian language education. The Progress Party expects the establishment of such training to take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e718	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for a commendable initiative, which is absolutely necessary at a time when we know that we should simply deal much, much closer and better with Russia. Then language is an important prerequisite for getting there. And that's why, as many people have been involved, it's desirable that languages become part of this north-eastern debate, which we talk a lot about in this house, but also part of the educational debate, and especially when we talk about the new, big, important countries of interaction, nations that deal with Norway, which Russia is and will become even more so, and as China, India and eventually also Brazil will become. Several have argued with and referred to the fact that we already have a border settlement agreement involving 45,000 Russians, and that we are gradually going to see the effect of this in terms of greater contact across the border. Among other things, we see: that Health Nord has pointed out that we are going to have more Russian patients in Norwegian hospitals. During the spring we have a sharing line agreement with Russia in place, which is going to create a completely new and bigger dynamic in our interaction and contact with Russia. We know what we have of environmental and security challenges, which are going to increase in scope, and there is no need to hide that there are great, great expectations in both Russia and Norway, but also among our friends in Europe, of what is going to happen in the energy field as the part-line agreement is ratified. We see that Russia has become the second largest importer of Norwegian fish in the last year – passed over 5 billion. kr i export values. It's right behind France, and it's the country that actually has the largest percentage increase. There is considerable interaction and contact already as it is. That's why we need to get speed on what's going on in the language training challenge. I would have liked Russia, like China and others, to be withdrawn from this non-Western quota treatment, which means that the educational institutions that have the greatest expertise in the area in Norway, including Narvik, as the representative Ljunggren pointed out, have to reduce consumption. But the other way is sadly sad. There is no interaction between trade and industrial development policy objectives and the results we achieve. And according to ANSA, we know that in the case of full-time students in non-Western countries, the interest is great, but the organization is minimal. According to ANSA, the entire 14 pst. students abroad have an interest in and a desire to study in countries such as Russia, China, India and Brazil, but it has not been facilitated. We know that the first year of Bachelor’s degree in non-Western countries is not recognised by NOKUT as equivalent to Norwegian higher education. This, of course, also leads to students who want to take a bachelor's degree in non-Western countries, neither receiving a scholarship nor borrowing from the Loan Fund, and it is then up to those who want to receive a different type of funding. We know that in these four nations – China, Russia, India and Brazil – it is actually 0.3 pst. by full-time foreign students taking their education. To point out Russia in particular: since the Council of State pointed out that we have no record of this, at least the figures I have found show that we had five exchange students from high school in Russia in 2010, 134 partial students and nine full-time students. These are deplorable numbers. But I trust that the Council of State answers the interpellant, that the proposals and the instructions that the interpellant takes up are taken seriously. Because if we're to succeed in all the policies we preach – when Obama says they're going to have 100,000 Americans in universities in China, and Giske says we're going to have 3,000 – then we have to jam the man up and have the same ambition for Norwegian students in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e727	Now I guess a lot is said, and there's a lot of good that has been said. But I don't think we can stress enough how important language and cultural knowledge will be to act wisely in a globalized world in the future. The world is shrinking, and those who know the language and culture of a country are doing much more to avoid conflicts and to achieve a good and peaceful cross-border interaction. Norway's relationship with Russia is constantly changing. New agreements between Russia and Norway were signed during Medvedev’s visit to Oslo, and at the latest last year, as explained by the Council of State. In a number of areas of industry, there is interaction between the two countries, not least in the field of oil and gas. And when the sharing line agreement is soon in place, it is well suited for further interaction. The central party therefore agrees that it is important to contribute to the organisation of increased Russian language competence by Norway. Language is one of the key keys to developing good interaction. As the Council of State has explained, there is already extensive cooperation in education and research and has agreements on new areas of cooperation. In addition, strategies related to basic education are discussed. The central party is concerned that the government's Northern Region Strategy will be more than words. This government has put extra emphasis on the northern areas as one of the most important strategic regions — areas that are particularly important in the future both for Norway and the world. The strategy is based on presence, activity and knowledge. If a strategy is to be of value, it must be done in an action-oriented manner. It is therefore good to hear the Council of State explain the extensive work already under way in the field of education. Knowledge in Russian languages is important to be able to offer special attention to children and young people in the northernmost counties, as the representative Aspaker calls for. According to the figures, there may not be very many people who choose Russian language either in primary school or in secondary school. That's too bad. Russia will in the future be one of our most important trading partners, even after all. In this way, it would be natural for Russian language and culture to become an important offer at the universities and universities of the northernmost counties. In order for one to have a good grasp of students for these studies, it is important that it can also be offered as an electoral profession already in secondary school. There is Russian training in a number of study places throughout the country, and it is good that there are alternatives for students interested in this language, since the economic and cultural life that interacts with Russia is spread throughout the country. Nevertheless, offering the best studies in Russian languages and culture should be one of the greatest advantages for the university and higher education sectors in the north. It requires that there be a wish of the institutions and society that Russian language and culture be a specialty of the northernmost states. High quality of these studies can help attract students from other parts of the country, and perhaps also from other countries, and help to make studies in the north particularly attractive. High quality is quite essential to succeed in this. I also want to underline the potential of exchanges of students between Russia and Norway, which the representative Kristiansen also had in mind. I think we have a great potential not only in relation to the higher education studies, but also at a lower level, i.e. in higher education. I have sailed someone in a close family who has been an exchange student in Brazil with great luck. I think that, as parents, we can also help encourage our teenagers to take a year in Russia. It contributes both to linguistic skills and perhaps also to a unique cultural understanding. It is therefore important that we, as authorities, encourage and facilitate more exchange between our two countries. I think it is great that the representative Aspaker has raised this interpellation. It will be an important input into further development and concreteisation of an active north-eastern strategy. At the same time, it helps to make us aware of the potential of linguistic and cultural exchanges between countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e760	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. So I'm going to extend myself to thank the Council of State for the article, because it was actually very good there. I shall not appear as any darkman from this pulpit in this matter. We who come from Finnmark have followed the cultural development between these two countries quite closely. It's like this – even though my children have a very young father – that in the mid-1980s, I actually lay guarding the border with a country that was dark and dangerous, while my son, who is today 25 years old, when he was 15, had pictures of Russian ladies who were on some ground with rollers and not just sold crystal when they crossed the border and stood on the square. My daughter, who today is 15 years old, has Russian language in the third year and has among her best friends in the class students with Russian background, and she thinks Russia is the most exciting neighboring country she can travel to. When you count up, we have many good projects that relate to cultural learning and language up in Finnmark, but a lot of these are really just fragments, because they're based on the spirit of hard work; they're based on resource people who are there. The red thread is not stretched, and it can be a little bit important. That's how I see the interpellation here, it's a message that you have to systematize it and extend it a little bit longer. This with language and cultural understanding will be important in the future, as many have said, for our understanding of Russia. I feel that the understanding of Russia is actually greater among the people of the north, and it comes quite naturally because we have the historical connection. However, developments in the north will be important in order to create the common national understanding – the important national understanding – of our great neighbour, who is also changing and becoming more important and important. It will therefore be important to have a strategy to make the projects that are now visible – a strategy to increase efforts towards Russia. It is also important, as the Council of State said, to raise the Nordic youth, get them through school and up to a level of competence as in the rest of the country. Here the Russian part can be an important helper. There are very many good teachers among young Russians who have moved to Norway for many reasons. In fact, around the municipality, a lot of good math teachers with a Russian background, as opposed to Norwegian teachers who may have concentrated on a little bit of other subjects. So good school there is also in this mix right here. The Border Farming Agreement has been mentioned. It's important, because it tells us a little bit about where we're going. But remember that for the time being it is in practice nothing more than that there are some Russians who can come to the churches and buy cheap dress on Savings. So it hasn't developed anything much longer than that's the practice. Every week, I have telephones from companies in Finnmark that have problems using Russian labour because the understanding of the need and regulation has not been established, so it is possible to do so today. So the border settlement is important. It tells us where we're going, but it tells us where we're going. it is not the world to adorn itself with, other than in the canapé company and buffets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e774	I would like to thank you for what I have experienced has been a good and constructive debate, with many dedicated contributions. I think it's good timing to focus on the Russian language, because there's no doubt that what's happening with the sharing line agreement is giving a new momentum to Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Then it's like harvesting, you have to. I guess I think you have to incorporate the Russian language as a language you choose in the same line as French, Spanish and German. It's kind of a patience work, too. Russian is exciting, but realistically, we may not be able to count on the very large student groups at first. That is why it is so important in the opinion of the Right that we can find municipalities that will go ahead with offering Russian, that they have to be allocated resources that enable them to ensure a qualitatively good offer and to endure over time, so that the offer is implemented. The teacher is also here a key factor in getting started and in being able to succeed. Teachers today are the greatest scarcity factor, if we are to believe, among other things. the education directors of Nordland and Troms. This means that recruiting grants for teachers may be the most important and the very first step we need to take. It is important in the short term to recruit and get teachers to train in Russian. But it is also important if we are to be able to offer Russian training more places in the longer term. Then I fully agree with the Council of State that a common labour market across borders makes it as relevant for the plumber and carpenter as for the marine biologist to bring Russian as part of a training. There is no reason to say that one teacher is less important in order to acquire additional knowledge or that professional and study specialisation should not have that competence on board. It is very positive that the Ministry now has broadcasts both to Finnmark and to Russia, because that means that it wants to gain better insight into how the further work on making Russian languages available to more people can be put up. But I'm impatient, and I think it's important to get started. I attend the initiative of the Council of State as soon as she has received good advice from both the one side and the other, so that one can get started and get to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis, if necessary, to help ensure that not least the focus on teacher competence is given priority. I think we should be able to learn not only from experience from Finnmark, but we should also learn from experience from the sixth grade in Mo in Rana, which was definitely full of enthusiasm for starting with as exciting a language as Russian.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e787	I thank you for a good debate, with dedicated contributions from all political parties. It is good that the Storting can agree on some significant areas of activity. What we agree on is that in areas of greater cooperation between Norway and Russia, there are great opportunities for development and a great potential, that much of what is happening today – what to say – is too dependent on a bit of randomness, a bit of special involvement and interest, and that there are opportunities here to systematize in a more comprehensive way. So I think, like the interpellant Aspacer, that we have to figure out that this starts a little bit in the small, and that it can be expanded from there. I take with me the proposals that have been put forward in this debate today. It can open up some very exciting opportunities in very many areas when the agreement on the divider line is signed, when we get the border residence certificates to work better, and that there is also a greater understanding of what business needs to do in terms of how they work. So I think that a lot of what's now a little bit spread interest and a lot depending on the individual's commitment, is gradually becoming a much better system. After all, it is our job to support and develop this in the best possible way, so that it is possible for more young people to choose Russian languages and gain knowledge about Russian culture at an early stage, while at the same time ensuring that they have the opportunity to continue their course in goal. If we can get several Norwegian students to study in Russia, to be exchange students with Russia, we will gradually build up skills and knowledge that will allow the cooperation opportunities that exist between Norway and Russia to develop further. I think that in this area there may be a ripple development, but it starts in the small. Then it's our job to make sure to systematize a little bit better. I thank you for a good debate with good suggestions and take them further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e798	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e814	The background for me to address this interpellation is that I am a member of the Committee on Culture and Education at the Nordic Council. This selection, and not least the Nordic Council in plenary, has been concerned with this topic. But there's one thing that disappoints me. It is that, after a number of enquiries from the Committee on Culture and Education to the Nordic Council of Ministers, no dedicated answers have been received, as I would like to call it. In addition, there has been a desire to meet the Nordic Ministers of Education for a discussion on this matter. It's been hard. The Nordic Council adopted last year's harvest as follows: the establishment by the Nordic Council of Ministers of a common database based on the Norwegian model, where all Nordic crafts can be registered – including craftsmen, students and businesses to ensure that the relevant authorities of the country ensure that students who so wish have an opportunity to take up up to two years of study/practice in another Nordic country, have the opportunity to include their financial support from their home country as well as a transport aid scheme to establish committed cooperation in these areas of education, where business and culture are active partners, and finally to establish a cooperation body as recommended in the report Track in the Nordic region; It is therefore committed parliamentarians from all five Nordic countries and the three autonomous areas that support this clear recommendation, with which we have worked for a long time. It is a great commitment, not only from parliamentarians in each country, but also from business, culture, etc. in all countries. All countries also face the same challenges in terms of the protection of trades and crafts. Not least we all need these subjects. It is illustrative when we are now in the main hall, in the Parliament of Norway, where there is a great need for this kind of competence. For us who have been here for a few years, we've seen every summer that craftsmen from abroad are moving in to do important services. It also means that in the Nordic region we have a mutual dependence on each other to exchange that type of labour force. But there are different needs in the different Nordic countries. Denmark and Sweden with their many castles, beautiful mansions, churches, etc. There may be a different need for gilders than Norway has. In 2009, Econ was commissioned by the Education Directorate to develop a review of the state of the craft sector. It shows, without going into it so badly, that the situation is critical, that the professional environments are small, and that it is difficult for newly educated candidates to get a job. Norway has now, as indicated in the interpellation, taken over the responsibility of leading a Nordic cooperation project on the provision of training for these subjects. It is important that the Council of State responsible for this in Norway now clearly communicates how this project works, and when we can be expected to have an agreement on such Nordic lines. That is why I hope that State Council Halvorsen today will light up a little bit on the veil and give us clear answers on how the project is going. I am aware, after this interpellation was submitted, that the Ministry of Knowledge has sent out a letter of assignment to the Directorate of Education, where they have requested that such a project be launched in January, and that the project be completed until 1 November this year. I could well imagine that State Council Halvorsen in his post afterwards gave an indication of the sort of expectations she had for this work. Society needs a lot of different expertise in order for the country to meet the challenges it needs. Many subjects are also important for us to be able to keep our history, even though market demand is not so great. It's important to our cultural heritage and to help get old craftsmanship, not least building skills, when they get back to their fashion. For the last 15 to 20 years, we have had a big wave in the Norwegian mountain cottage, where cabins with different lab techniques have become very popular again. This is an example of how important it is for us to maintain our competence in the field of old building methods in our society. I can mention organ builder, glass blower, big watchmaker, clockmaker, furniture screws, piano voices, error maker, bundler, gilding, capstans, hoofs, paints, furniture tapestries, wood cutters. There are some of the subjects we're discussing here. How many people in Norwegian society are really aware that we are not training today, for example. piano voices in Norway? It is a subject for which there is a great need. I think it would be quite surprising if you asked the people about it. So country lines aren't enough. It has been shown that even in small countries it becomes difficult. Our youth today has many other interests, which means that they do not choose these courses. But it's important that we ensure the offer for those who really want to enter these subjects, so that we can preserve the competence that it represents. The cultural ring in Akershus, NHO and Nordisk Handelsforum has contributed well to focusing on the situation and the need for these subjects. But the industries themselves cannot just take responsibility, this is also a public responsibility. It is an important element of our education provision, and therefore we now need action from responsible national authorities. A Nordic portal has been proposed for these subjects, a portal for all Nordic countries to deploy craftsmen, students and businesses, while being an information channel for applicants and providers. In the past, the Directorate for Education has rejected an application from the Nordic Crafts Forum for support for the creation of such a portal. I hope that there can be other signals now from the Council of State, that she thinks it is a good initiative, and that it is important to support voluntary initiatives to operate such a channel. The reports from the Nordic countries show that many young people are interested in education in these fields, but it may be difficult to find training opportunities. This is about our cultural heritage, as I said earlier, but it is also important in the field of business policy, it can create a number of jobs. But not least, business can also have major problems when important skills are lost. Then I hope for a positive and interesting response from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e857	I thank you for the opportunity to respond to this interview. Before I do that, I'll just make a few comments to the interpellant. Firstly, I am aware that there is a broad commitment to this in the Nordic Council. Norway has also undertaken its own mission. Councillor Rigmor Aasrud, who is responsible for following up the Nordic Council, is also well informed about the work being done. I received a report from her that this has been addressed in the Nordic Council's cooperation. I also have the same interest as the interpellant in snooping around the Storting in summer time to see how many crafts there are, which we don't have much competence on ourselves. For example, it is often the case that those who put leaf wool on the poles — after the year’s arduous wear by the staging representatives — speak Danish or Swedish. Of course, it's because they have a slightly larger labour market for this kind of competence than we have ourselves. That's why it's wise to have a Nordic perspective here to take care of the protective subjects. I very much agree with the interpellant that many small crafts trades represent a cultural historical value that it is very important to continue. Of course, a very important part of continuing this type of value is ensuring good training. But I have to say that the more I have been involved in this matter, the more concerned I am with the fact that there are also jobs that demand this competence. Because it's hard to imagine that youth, or maybe a little bit more adult students that we have on these lines, are applying to these lines if they don't also have the ability to use such a type of education in a job. I'll come back to that a little bit. Since the early 1990s, Norwegian education authorities have specifically treated a group of 30-35 so-called small and protective subjects. Special treatment has been provided by an extra-high grant to apprentices who include apprentices in these subjects. The fibres must meet certain criteria. These are subjects where knowledge is at risk of becoming extinct due to a lack of new recruitment, that they respect traditional craftsmanship techniques and that they have cultural value that it is important to continue. It's just the subjects that the interpellant also addresses. The situation of these subjects is accompanied by a separate Secretariat, the Secretariat for Small and Protective Subjects, SSV. This is under the Directorate of Education. The Secretariat for Small and Protective Subjects has a lot of knowledge about the subjects and does a lot of tasks. Among other things, they provide information to applicants for training, refer to possible apprenticeships and inform about the existence and importance of the subjects. It is the Directorate of Education, following the input of the Secretariat for Small and Protective Subjects, that determines which subjects are to be defined as small and protective, and today there are 34 subjects on the list. It's about a very wide variety of subjects. There may be joinery, brushmaker, plastermaker, men's tailors' tailors' tailors' pieces, handwovens, ceramics, costumers, basket maker, knitting handicrafts, tricycles and wood cutters. The list is not static, and the individual branches and trade representatives can make recordings. To improve the knowledge base, Econ conducted a survey of the status of small crafts in 2009. This was on a mission from the Education Directorate. The survey shows several challenges related to the subjects: few applicants, few apprenticeships and a limited labour market. Almost half of the new singers felt that it was difficult to get a job in the subject they represented. The survey also shows that most applicants are adults. The average age of the new Swedes in 2008 was 34 years, and many also have a different education. It is not so strange if this type of subject is too slightly interested. I think it's hard to imagine that it's among the very young people who choose higher education, you have to find recruitment for this type of profession. I think it's very much about people who already have a degree letter, and who realize that this is a specialization and something you get an interest in when you're grown up. In the light of Econ's survey, we now want to carry out a comprehensive review of the subjects in question. The aim is to find sustainable solutions in the long term. The structure of the offer in secondary education following the promise of knowledge contains approx. 186 apprenticeships, and many have few applicants. In 2010, 93 of the subjects we have, less than 50 applicants. 28 apprenticeships had no applicants, 18 of them were small and protective subjects. The county councils can cooperate in providing so-called nationwide offers, where students from all counties can apply for the offer in one county. When you see how small a search is for quite a number of subjects, you can see that here we are totally dependent on the states working together to make good offers. Nevertheless, it is not always the case that it provides enough applicants to ensure the stability of training provision. So a lot of subjects have some special challenges that we now want to look at. In order to find suitable solutions, we are also dependent here on close cooperation with the industries/activities/representatives of the subjects. In addition, there is a great responsibility on the industries to contribute to the interest, recruitment and development of the subjects. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr is asking for the status of the establishment of Nordic lines. Nordic cooperation can be a solution to preserve and further develop some of the small crafts. As the interpellant refers to, under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers, a cooperation project is under way around a selection of small crafts. The aim of the project is to develop models of cooperation in education and training provision. We have assumed the project responsibility for this from Norway, and the project will be completed on 1 November this year, as the interpellant was also involved. We have worked a long time to remove frontier barriers so that education becomes available regardless of the Nordic country in which you live. When Norway is to chair the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012, this will be an effort that Norway will take responsibility for following up. I am happy to get hold of that job in connection with this. But let me get back to the labour market a little bit, because it's unlikely that we'll be able to train people in these special interests without any job opportunities. It is not that this is a craft we do not need. This type of competence may be needed, particularly in the field of cultural memory protection and in the museum sector, but at the same time it may not be high enough as a priority or a poor economy does not require competence. That's why we have to think beyond the education sector if we're to get something that carries in relation to securing this knowledge for the future. So I see the need for a broader effort, and that we see the training offer and the small and protective subjects in connection with the assignments they're going to have within cultural memories and museums. That is why I have an intention to contact the Ministry of the Environment, which is responsible for cultural memories, and the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for much of this in the museum sector, so that we can see a training plan in a whole. There aren't many candidates in any case, and in any case not many jobs are involved, but I think we can have a much greater effect of closer cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environment on the Norwegian side, and perhaps equivalent in Nordic terms, to ensure that the candidates we recruit can get a training offer, but they will also have the opportunity to get a job. Thus, we can also take better care of our own cultural memories and our own traditions for the future. For educated candidates, the skills they have in order to keep the professions alive will depend on the demand, and more players will have to be involved. Of course, it will be an opportunity for some self-employed people to show interest in some of the small and protective subjects, but I think we also need to look much more systematically at cooperation between several sectors to get to this. When we do the work until 1 November, I would like to come back to the portal that the interpellant is dedicated to establishing at the Nordic level, so that we can see the whole of the work that we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e883	I thank you for your answer. I'm recording that the Council of State is concerned with this issue, and it's exciting now to see what's happening to this project that the Education Directorate has, hopefully, already started, and what's coming out of it. But I want the Council of State to bear in mind the importance of such a problem that clear political choices are made, and that the responsible Council of State shows a clear political leadership when it comes to furthering this. Now I do not know how the State Council intends to inform about the outcome of the project that will be completed in November, but it is important that there is a clear feedback both to Stortinget and not least to the Nordic Council, the Nordic Council of Ministers, on how this work is going. I agree with the Council of State that education is important, but that it is not worth much without a labour market. There we also have to look at how, as state authorities, we can contribute to the creation of a labour market for this type of profession as well. We know, of course, that there are already many small craft companies that may live in the hidden areas of many of these subjects, and that there can often be one-man businesses where you fear a little bit of taking in apprentices and taking in permanent employees. That's why I think the Council of State needs to involve industry very much in this work, also to hear from business what it needs to do to make them, for example. shall involve an apprentice and engage in dialogue with those who operate, for example: a small furniture-trap shop, to get clarity on it. I think it is positive that the Council of State should involve the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture in this, but I missed the Ministry of Industry. I believe that it will be very topical to involve the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this, because, as I said in my first post, this is largely also about industrial policy. Then I hope that the Council of State will take on a significant leadership role in the Nordic Council of Ministers on this topic. It is good that Norway should focus on this during its presidency in 2012. We have to be a clear and active driver within this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e894	Yes, of course, there may also be a lot to get out of a more systematic collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Business in such a context, but I think perhaps the most important thing is that we see our own ability to take care of cultural heritage is that we have competence in the different, small, protective subjects in the future, that we see the capture of it in Nordic context. We have e.g. stave churches, we have old vessels, we have cultural memories in many areas – and we know that it is the idealism of individuals who are very much the driving force behind our being able to care for them. And I think it's going to be a significant feature of special interest and idealism for those who want to expand their knowledge in what we now call small and protective subjects, and that therefore we must also see the other areas as co-players in order to manage them. But of course, if there are entrepreneurs who want to cooperate in this area, it also has an interest. I'm very interested in these questions. I think it's incredibly nice to work on this. Although it is never going to be a major growth industry, we have a significant responsibility for the competences of blacksmiths, weavers, wood cutters and various other professional groups, and to ensure that we pass on the traditions we have in these areas. So I look forward to our own proposal to join the Nordic Council, and to being able to cooperate systematically on this. For this is an area where we've been very heavily dependent on the involvement of people who either have knowledge or knowledge of this from before and who want to contribute to keeping the cultural heritage in claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e905	The interpellant travels an important matter. The small craftsmanship needs help, otherwise they will die slowly, but surely. Maintenance and restoration of buildings and objects is increasingly sought. Several of these subjects also represent cultural historical values that it is important to continue. Through several reports, the Nordic Crafts Forum has pointed to this in recent years. I would particularly like to point to Econ Pöyry's 2009 report, which demonstrates that young people looking for small crafts are targeted and long-term and willing to do well in a demanding market. These reports provide further information on both needs and skills requirements. I think that we should be able to continue these subjects, we need to cooperate much more, even across borders. The work started by the Nordic Council is and will be important in this context. And then I think, as the minister of knowledge pointed out, that these subjects also have a cultural and economic dimension. These actors must be involved and visible in the need and importance of maintaining and continuing these trainings. New technologies are also important in these fields. This must be marketed in a much better way than what we are doing today. Then we have to look for words like professional pride. Here, cultural and business life can do a lot more than what we see and hear today. If we succeed here, there may be a lot of applications for these subjects as well. But the actors must be on the track. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e922	It is positive that the government has taken a responsibility in relation to Nordic coordination, or Nordic cooperation, in relation to these subjects. I would like to ask the Council of State if it is such that the work of the Directorate of Education, which is going on until 1 November, is also directed towards Nordic cooperation, and what kind of contact area you put up there. I also hope that when working on this, you will clarify a little better what is our national policy in this area. Because that is the way to find good common Nordic solutions, we should also have good national solutions. We need some good solutions in general that can work in the Nordic region. And there it is, unfortunately, so that in the national picture we might be a little bit behind us. We see that in higher education it has been very problematic to obtain education in this type of subject. From professional environments, private school solutions have been used to try to solve tasks that the public school has not been able to do. An example of this is Hjerleid secondary school, which is county municipal, like everyone else, but which had to make a private school model for its three-carrier line. So it's no more private than that it's owned by the county council, but it's made in that model to find a solution for that type of student. The same school has tried to obtain an education in the forges and received a refusal because it is private — it is county private. What I think this problem is describing is that these subjects are not fit to fall into the slightly diabolical approach that we have in the education cycle: three plus three plus three years. This is a subject that deals with hand-held knowledge. If we're to solve this, we need to respect the peculiarity of these subjects. Hand-held knowledge is not about lectures, it's about practice. It's quite right as the council points out, there's often a little bit of adult people doing this. It is linked to the fact that it is a greater need for time. You have to make a lot of things, you have to learn the hand of the exercise that it is, and you have to be in a one-to-one relationship with a craftsman in the area to learn it. This has been developed in Japan. In Japan, you have your own craftsmen – we would call them state scholarships, I think – who are paid by the state to continue their crafts. The extreme example is a huge Shinto temple built up, and not before is it built up, so it tears down. For one should never forget how such a temple is actually built, one should keep the process going. It's for thought. When you develop education in this field, you have to lift your head a little bit out of normal high school folds and think: What premises must be satisfied to actually have a climate, or a good framework, to develop these subjects? If you do that, I think you'll also increase the status of the subjects, and I think you'll gain the interest of people who want to apply for it. Then I agree with the Council of State that it is nice to coordinate this with cultural memory protection and museums and stuff. There is no doubt that this is a major decrease in tasks. But it is also the case that most of the people we are talking about are self-employed. They make furniture, they make saddles – equipment for riding – they make items that are also in use today, and I think you should look at them like that. I think one should try to help develop also the private part of this market, which is definitely there. So there's a lot to pick up in the Nordic, because of course these subjects will be small. It is therefore important to find common solutions. So I would like to stress a point that has not been mentioned, and that is that we have a commitment through the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage, which in fact all the Nordic countries have signed, and which makes this a commitment we have made to take care of in the future, and help to achieve. I would also like to mention the scholarship scheme for crafts and Norwegian crafts, which is actually based on the knowledge that is needed to get this going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e945	I would like to thank in particular the inter-pellant, but also the previous speakers and the Council of State for a good debate – a debate on an important topic. I also think the signals from the Council of State that she will not only work on this against her Nordic colleagues, but will also involve other departments, are commendable, and of course we will follow up from the Stortinget side. Governments say this is not growth industries. She's probably right about that. But many of these subjects are important exponents for former growth industries and thus a very important part of Norwegian cultural heritage. I want to start with a derailment – it's just as easy to take the derailment right away, so I'm doing it now. When Norwegian Vikings in the 800s and 900s came to the United Kingdom, the remains of two- and three-storey Roman buildings were again from a civilization that had gone into the forgotten book. The Vikings found no other explanation as to how they could have built wooden buildings than that there must have been giants who had done it. The descendants after the Vikings know that it was not. On the contrary, the knowledge of building on three floors had developed hundreds of years earlier, but it was forgotten in the United Kingdom of the day. But there are exponents for the important growth industries we're talking about in Norway. I find it difficult to see how you could have exported herring from North Norway and the West to Europe without having people who could make barrels to have it in. I find it difficult to see how they could have rowed across the North Sea without sailors to make sails for the vessels that created well-being and prosperity throughout Norway. This is important that we can take care of in the future. It is important that we make sure that we do not go into the trap that the Anglo-Saxons did, and forget the knowledge that they had previously had, but that we keep it. Then we're going to hope that we don't get forced to travel over the North Sea by sail in the future. It is important that we retain the knowledge we have acquired over the centuries. Our stave churches and our medieval churches also need craftsmen to be maintained. In Trondheim we have one of the few canteens in Norway. To build a sponge house is very few people who can today. That knowledge must be maintained. My point is that it is important that we have this competence in Norway. It is important that Norwegian youth, but also of course adults, have access to this knowledge. At the same time, it is important that we do not leave this to environments that are so small and so marginal that they risk disappearing, not because we decide on the Biggest or in the government, but because the environment just gets so small that they can't be maintained. That is why the Nordic initiative is, among other things: Representatives of the Norwegian Storing have taken part in the Nordic Council, which is very important. If we get to Nordic cooperation to keep these subjects, we have the opportunity to succeed. I think that if we're betting on doing this alone in Norway, we can risk these subjects disappearing, not because we don't want to keep them here in the Stortingen, but because the environments are getting so small. I think that many of the speeches in the debate today have given rise to optimism, and I can only promise that we will give the government support in the further work to secure these for Norwegian cultural heritage very important craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e968	Thank you for an important debate. It is important for Norway as a whole. It is particularly important to us in Oppland, I think – it is not by chance that there are three aliens on the list of speakers here today. First of all, we have important providers here, and then I think Uppland is just a good example of a state society that really needs that kind of competence. It's a matter that shows in a very good way that what characterises a community of competences is not only that we have a society that needs competence, but that it's also society that has to contribute to giving that competence, that is, to raise demand, and not least to get it up in such a way that it works. It's not the school alone that can do this, but then there's an entire society that has to take responsibility. Several of the articles here have made a good impression. In the work to be done now, it is important, as my fellow countryman, if not the party colleague, Olemic Thommesse, that we get a border between what the public should put on and give as an offer in the future, and what we should leave to private to put on. For one of the problems that we notice, in particular that we land politicians, is that the public and private providers are waiting for each other and owe each other a little, and then we do not get any final clarification of progress and how this should be addressed in the future. It's important that we get a good investigation that shows the need here, that shows the way we're going to both deliver such offers and raise demand, and make this interaction work, and that we also get a borderline between what the public school system is going to take responsibility for in the future, and what you're going to leave to private to take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e977	Many small craftsmanship professions are struggling with recruitment both in Norway and in the rest of the Nordic region, as the interpellant has pointed out. Developments in society lead to changes in the need for different occupational groups. The wheelmakers are not as much in demand as they were before, but we still need that competence in order to take care of important cultural memories. In addition to education that intends to maintain and maintain cultural memories, small subjects for which there is still a market come, whether the market is small. The forge or glass blower are examples of such professions. Due to technological developments, there is less need for labour in these professions than in the past. This does not mean that there is no need at all, but since there are so few who choose these courses, it is demanding for the county councils that offer this type of training to maintain the offer with very few applicants. That's understandable. Some of the courses are given national status and are rescued through the acquisition of students from other counties, while for others, it is probably most appropriate to look at education in a Nordic perspective. Then we must also be able to look at the labour market in a Nordic perspective. I also join my two colleagues from Uppland, and also to what the representative Thommess said about challenges specifically related to the school called Hjerleid. It is very positive that the Nordic Council has worked on the issue and looks at the possibility of a Nordic solution to common challenges. As we have heard, in March 2009, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Knowledge organised a separate conference at Lillehammer on small crafts. The aim was to discuss how one could take care of some of these small, but important, educations. At the same time, Econ provided a review of the position of the subjects. One of the conclusions was that cultural authorities, education authorities and business authorities must take responsibility for the subjects together. It is therefore very good that the Minister of Knowledge intends to follow up on that in the further work as well. The low search for these lines is demanding compared to the fact that education is part of secondary education. This means that some older applicants who have gained a basic experience that can be very valuable for the training are not entitled to and are not. This may in turn lead to the study not being established. It is therefore important that the government examines carefully which subjects and disciplines are considered important to take care of in Norway and which educational institution is to take care of the various subjects. One must also agree on which subjects are taken care of in other Nordic countries. We also need to look at the rules on the right to training and whether education can be offered to more adult students, for the sake of the subjects. In this context, it is actually the maintenance of the expertise that is important. If the systems don't fit the way they are today, we have to change them, so that we can take care of the knowledge. It is important that it is not too long before a strategy on how to take care of the different subjects is in place. Youth needs to be aware of the opportunities that exist, and it is important that knowledge has not disappeared while waiting for us to do so in the best possible way and within the regulatory framework. We live in a time that is changing rapidly. Awareness of one's own cultural expressions and identity is becoming increasingly important in a world that is changeable. Knowledge of old craft traditions is part of our cultural heritage, which is very important to take care of, just as it is everywhere else in the world. Then it is our responsibility as authorities to facilitate the preservation of such knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e990	Then we go from the Uppland bench to the Oslo bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e994	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important topic. We in the Left had a separate seminar at Stortinget for a while back on this very topic in order to get the different aspects out. And so after that, we've always added 3.5 million. kr to new scholarships in this field in our alternative budget, which may be an inspiration for the government. The reason why this is important is because it's about taking care of our cultural heritage. I was the case rapporteur when we adopted the intangible cultural heritage and supported ourselves to the UNESCO Convention. I think it's a very important UNESCO convention. In fact, the Japanese are at peace with their craftsmen. They have their own conservation provisions for those people who have that kind of competence, which I think is an exciting way to think about when we know how important the intangible part of our culture is. It's as important as the one we can hold. For a little while back, I was going to try to reconstruct the roof of my living room in a farm from 1880. Then I needed plaster makers, one from St. Petersburg, one from Berlin, one from Sweden and one from Bosnia to do that. All three companies that I know about here in Oslo where there are plasterers, there are no Norwegians who run, because we lost the competence of plasterers here in Norway when the 1970s led to lowered panel roofs. Today, when you want to reconstruct the old roofs from the 1880s, we luckily get craftsmen from other countries to establish themselves here, so that we can preserve the part of the history of Oslo's old masonry. It's not just Uppland who has a cultural heritage to take care of. It is also found in other counties. I think it is positive that the Council of States wants to use Nordic cooperation to take care of the very least of the subjects in particular, but here we are actually in a European cultural tradition, where very many of these subjects are European subjects. The experts at the stave church building from Maihaugen go to Tbilisi in Georgia and suddenly realize that the craftsmen at the folk museum in Tbilisi know how to actually build stave churches, by means of a construction method and mowing that Norwegian cultural workers did not understand how to do. They discover that in Georgia – quite far away from us – they can chop the timber in exactly the way you did when they built the stave churches here. We are in a European cultural tradition, especially given the history of many of these craftsmen. What's challenging is that a lot of them don't fit into the education system we have. In fact, when you create an archive for those who know different crafts, there are a lot of craftsmen who refuse to be in that archive, because they don't think what they can do is fine enough. It was not something you put on the paper. But at the other end of the spectrum you'll find rock cutters who run on in Nidarosdomen, who want to take a doctorate in their subject. You will find the whole spectrum within this area – from those who do not want to be in an archive because what they can, is not good enough, for those who want to take the university exam and doctorate in the subjects they have. Our education systems need to take that on board. The second challenge is that very many people who want to work with a little strange craftsmanship don't figure it out when they're 16 or 17 years old. They like to find out when they have worked a little and think that some of what they have come across in their professional life is very exciting. This is not adapted to our education system either. What we have to remember is that a lot of the subjects that we thought might not come back come back in new forms. The old salmaking profession suddenly comes back by someone using leatherwork for artistic expression, in completely different ways in a modern age. The blacksmiths may not be so important when it comes to making other things, but all of a sudden the blacksmiths have moved into both art and into other expressions, so there are a lot of opportunities for those who are betting on the old professions to create a nutrient base and a future based on it. Then we have to adapt the education system, not try to adapt them to our education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1013	Let me thank you for a good debate, with relatively good answers from the Council of State. This debate shows that there is a great deal of commitment here in the Chamber for these small subjects. The challenge now is to further translate that commitment into practical action, and there is hope that the project that is now, hopefully, under way in the Directorate for Education can contribute to this, that in the not too long term we can get a solution where all the Nordic countries are involved. As I said earlier, this is cultural policy and not least industrial policy. It's true, as the Council of State says, that it's important that there are jobs when we train people for this, and that it's an illusion to think that people will choose an education where there are no jobs. But let's look at how, as state authority, we can also contribute to the creation of a larger market for these crafts. We here in Norway are not exactly known for being the best people to maintain our public buildings, for example. Perhaps a more offensive maintenance programme of public buildings, churches and other cultural memories could contribute to an increased need for some of these subjects, so that better professional environments can be created around this. I hope that the conclusion of this debate will be that the State Council of Halvorsen and the Norwegian Ministry of Knowledge are now taking an active lead in this work, and that the Council of State can contribute to a better flow of information between the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers. And I hope that there will be clear political demands for this project, which is now under way in the Directorate of Education, that there is good communication from the Norwegian side and cooperation with the other Nordic countries, that training offers are adapted to the needs of the professional community and the structure of the subjects, that not only cultural protection authorities, but also the business community and the business community within these subjects are involved. I also think it is important to improve the information for possible student groups, i.e. to improve the information about the opportunities within these subjects. Then I thank you for the response to the interpellation and for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1026	I would like to thank you for a dedicated debate, which shows that there is a broad interest – at least some interested parties – in what we are now doing. This has been a debate where it has been a honorary term to be a little strange; there are very few other debates I discover in. But we are now discussing something that, in its core – small and protective subjects – is too much of a special interest. At the moment you're not too interested anymore, you're not small and protective. So we depend on someone who feels a special interest, and a special fatherhood, to develop this sector. I'm now going to make sure that the issues that have been raised in this debate are covered by the mission that the Education Directorate has been given, and go through it so that we are absolutely sure that it meets with the commitment that the Storting now has. There are several questions here – about how to make this fit into the Norwegian education system and what it is reasonable to cooperate on in the Nordic region – that we must follow up and concretely put forward. When I'm talking about seeing cultural memories and museum needs in connection with what we can do on training, it's not necessarily to get public employees peckers – or whatever it might be – but to look at what kind of assignment it might be. Of course, it will be self-employed behind who can offer this and who can have it as an interesting labour market. Otherwise, I have also fought with an old apartment, and I managed to get hold of a young female Norwegian stokator to help me with that gypsum, but to my horror – when I think about how long it was since – I cannot expect that she is still in that particular profession. That was the time to change what someone had found out was an incredibly good idea – something called barracudatak, which the president may have heard of. It was a plastic tarpaulin that you stretched from corner to corner to hide the stoke. So here there might be subjects that suddenly show up again with renewed interest. I also think it is important to take a round and look at the problem that both the interpellant, the Olemic Thommess and the representative Aksel Hagen of SV were involved, which is about private school solutions and county municipal solutions, and what kind of landscape we are in there. Then, by approaching these issues, it must be seen that this is all about everything that somehow falls between the usual ‘streamed’ courses of education. This is precisely why there are special themes, and it can update both the adult's place in the higher education system, it can update slightly different grant schemes, etc. So I take with me what has come up as important input into this debate, and then we come back with renewed efforts for Norwegian cultural heritage in a European tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1044	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended. I am sure that the broad consensus is also due to the fact that none of the speakers has come to terms with the need to protect small and protective lots. That would probably give a slightly different speed in the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1058	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1067	So this is a proposal from the Left – from Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden – which is about gift strengthening, and gift strengthening means that you have a government grant that is linked to a gift. In this case, there are museums, which have been thought to be a good starting point for developing such a system, and then you think that when a museum gets a gift, it automatically triggers a government grant – perhaps in the same magnitude. Then, if the government had been willing to go further and investigate this, you would have been able to define in more detail what kind of magnitude you might imagine, i.e. how such a system would be put in place. I expect the individual parties to explain their positions. For the Right, we think this is a good proposal and an important matter to consider. It is notable that this is a type of action that strengthens the funding base of cultural life and in a way does so where actors other than the State are also involved in taking the lead. In the observations of the case, there is also the government party's objection to this, namely that you do not have the full control of where the funds should go. And it is also believed that the museums that have not obtained such agreements will come out worse, i.e. there will be a distribution in relation to those who have managed to secure good agreements and good gift arrangements. From the right-hand side, we think that that's a positive point. We believe that such an arrangement would be a good incentive for the museums to just work on getting gifts in. The museums should be well suited to do just that. Many types of museums are related to industries, related to donors of objects – it is very common for museums. In this way it is possible to build – I would almost say – mini-projects around some small parts of the museum's operations. Such a gift enhancement arrangement would then be a good incentive to strengthen the basis for its own operations. It would also help to strengthen the sense of responsibility in general, since getting more private actors into the museums would also help to strengthen the attitude that we want to be in the field of cultural memory protection, namely that we take a shared responsibility to take care of our cultural heritage. It's not just something we can push into publicly funded museums. We also believe that such a scheme will be very stimulating for contributors. If you come up with a gift or an amount, and you know that it's also supplemented from another source, it'll be for inspiration, because you'll see that you'll get more done for the money. The right will support the proposal, we support the proposal promoted by the Left and the proposers, and do so together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. In addition, I will report that the Right will also vote in favour of the proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party, which I must say is a little bit on the side of this case, but which is in the areas where the Right has been concerned in other contexts, and which we think it is a little artificial to vote against, although it is not the theme of this round. In other words, we support the proposal No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1080	This matter concerns an important part of the community, our common cultural heritage, and thereby our common responsibility. First of all, a little visit to the comments of the bourgeois parties that I find strange, and which affected Olemic Thommes, namely that this can not only be a state responsibility, but that we must all feel a shared responsibility for caring for the cultural heritage through a spice layer. Yes, that's exactly what we're doing, and that's exactly what the Cultural Promise means, that everyone through the fissure layer is helping to fund our shared responsibility, our common cultural heritage, and that it's not just for the privileged to contribute and experience. The proposal is heard in and of itself innocent, but I think it will take away an important part of the community. This will lead to a prioritisation of the large and popular over the small and special ones, an advantage for institutions in cities rather than institutions in the districts. It's a little puzzling to me that the left, which is towards the grass root because it can cause bias, at the same time suggests something like that which will lead to extreme bias. There is no internal cohesion in the rhetoric of the Left. An example of challenges in District Norway is that we already have a lot of projects around the whole country that could have received more government contributions if they had only had the opportunity to get a bigger share of private capital. But they can't do it. They are already at the maximum in relation to what they can obtain from private support. This shows whether the challenge of such a proposal will lead to economic hardship. Another example is that many of the cultural actors in the districts are already only doing so by means of sponsorship revenues. What if these were to be even more dependent on private capital? It is certain that the work of providing sponsors, providing private capital, will swallow an even greater part of a vulnerable administration in these institutions, time that they would rather spend developing quality, developing new exciting ideas. The Progress Party goes even further in its comments, and I believe that their policy will in fact be a threat to our community in Norway. It's going to be a crumbling, it'll lead to unforeseeable in the economy of the institutions, and I'm afraid it'll lead to unity. Just look at the comments made by the Progress Party in this case, that it is ‘to stay up to people to define the cultural expressions that they want to support’. Yes, there would be more money for the popular things, and much less for what might be narrow, odd, that minority is concerned about. The minority will disappear with the policies of the Progress Party. In addition, they say that this will ‘redistribute the money in the sector by providing more contributions where they wish’. Yes, clearer it can almost not be said. It is precisely my point that this will lead to the division of districts and cities, between the popular and the narrower. The party of progress is so concerned with freedom. Yes, what about the freedom of people in the districts? What about the freedom of the small minorities around, who have their peculiar expressions? I'm afraid we're going to get more exhibitions where you run a safe line on what you know becomes a crowd swindler, and that there'll be less room for the narrower expressions. I am also afraid that such a policy, as well as crushing the community, will be a very good and delicious sleeping cushion for any blue government that is not so interested in continuing the cultural promise, and which therefore simply means that this can be done by the museums and cultural institutions themselves by collecting private capital. It will be dangerous for the community, it will destroy the opportunities of many to experience culture in the districts – and diversity. That is why I strongly warn against that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1097	It is positive that many people choose to spend part of their leisure time on culture and sport, as spectators or as active sports or hobbies. Yes, some also carry out voluntary work within culture. Cultural life shall be fattened as far as possible. It requires a broad cultural concept, so that as many people as possible are given the opportunity to participate in their own premises. It must be a cultural policy objective. It must not be the case that the Labour Party's representative now said that everything should be conducted by the Ministry of Culture. Getting the most involved in the diversity of culture in Norway is important, and it is important that not everything is managed from just Oslo. I am in favour of the proposal that has come from the Left, and I see the opportunities to develop the museums around the country by involving volunteers and private people to finance what is not funded today. But I want to go further. A prerequisite for creating freedom is the absence of coercion, imposition and pressure. All culture must therefore be as independent as possible from the public authorities and governance of Oslo as the Workers' Party constantly wishes. The culture, which is unilaterally based on public funding from Oslo, has several unfortunate aspects, as large public funding, among other things. may lead to questions as to whether the cultural expressions are the result of free exercise or whether they are managed by the ministry. That they represent what the cultural/political elite in the Ministry of Culture at all times considers to be a good cultural policy is not right, as I see it. There are several schemes today that stimulate some voluntary support, and this is clearly positive for Norwegian policies across the country. However, this whole system should be further strengthened in order to meet the cultural needs of its own. When one sees that cooperation with volunteers and sponsors around the country has as great a positive effect as it has, then this is important. Some other countries have expanded and improved the system in relation to the system we have in Norway, and they do not depend on, on the contrary, the culture of other countries works very well even if it is not managed by the Ministry of Culture in Oslo. Such schemes well harmonise with the need for some cultural units. It would be wise to look at countries that are further ahead than Norway at this point. Today, there is not much interest from private individuals or businesses in funding culture. Everything from individual artists, non-governmental organisations and national institutions such as the National Gallery and the National Theatre can benefit greatly from this. We should look at that, and this system should be extended. NOK 12000, to which it has been committed today, is not sufficient in some cases, and it is of negligible benefit to the main players. It is an unsolved potential for private co-financing within culture and volunteering in Norway. Many countries, as I said, have come a long way in this area and with great success. National, professional culture is heavily publicly funded – from Oslo, from the Ministry of Culture, with the support of the Workers' Party in this room. I would like to point out that both here and within non-governmental organisations, if the system facilitates it, there are ways to pick up funds. In that case, it will mean an enormous boost to culture and volunteering. It is unmistakably positive that with such a system, it becomes even more up to people to define the cultural expressions that they want to support. The solution with increased access to the deduction of gifts to culture and tax volunteering can help. It can support more, it can give more money to culture. Firstly, increased tax incentives contribute to the redistributive effect of the funds in the sector by increasing their contribution where they wish. You can see it in sports: they sell advertising on shorts, they sell advertising on their butt. It's hard in the museum sector. It's hard in theater. New schemes should therefore be put in place to enable them to also collect sponsoring funds. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is or is promoting alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1120	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1123	Together with our archives and libraries, the museums constitute the infrastructure and framework for our common memory as a society. They manage our history, our common cultural heritage, and therefore also important parts of the value base that society brings on from generation to generation. Managing those values is not a public responsibility. It is our shared responsibility – public and society as a whole, us as individuals and different parts of society. The Christian People's Party considers that it is therefore important to highlight several alternative ways in which museums can strengthen their funding and their livelihood. We feel that gift enhancement is therefore a relevant proposal. We do not consider how such a system should be designed in detail, but we support a proposal asking the government to come back with a matter of setting up such a system. Such an arrangement would just be a good way to make it clear that our cultural heritage is not alone a state responsibility. It will strengthen the museum's starting point to find private contributors and strengthen involvement in society. It also contributes to the spread of power and diversity within the sector. Then, of course, such a scheme should not replace public funding, but come as a complement to public funding that we already have. It is a little amazing to listen to the Workers' Party's defence for their position on the matter. There's private money in rich monn around the community, not because I think someone is in doubt about it, but it might be useful to remember that it's actually the way that the money that's around the community is not state property, it's not public property. We have our values, we have our properties, some have done it well, and some have not done it fully as well, values are passed on from generation to generation, some have a lot, and some have little, and we want to use it for the best of society around us. You almost get the impression, when you listen to the representative Stokkan-Grande, that this is a problem, that it's a problem that people want to dispose of this money around, and that those who choose to dispose of this money can make up some kind of bias if they spend the money on something. You can imagine some kind of socialist idea, that it's really a problem that there are at all times private property and private capital that can be disposed of for some purpose. We have also noted in other contexts that it is considered a problem that we have commercial actors such as: either want to support cultural purposes, which wish to invest in healthcare, which wish to invest in child protection and kindergartens. We could have mentioned ideal actors in this context also who want to be involved. There are many private actors who want to be present for both clean business and societal purposes. It's not a problem, it's part of a naturally functioning society. So I would like to mention that in the case of the proposals No. 3 and 4, from the Progress Party, do not support the Christian People's Party these proposals. The Christian People's Party is a hot defender, and will be a hot defender, of the gift-delivery scheme for non-governmental organisations. At the latest in connection with the State budget, we made a proposal to double this deduction from NOK 12 000 to NOK 24 000. The proposal of the Progress Party involves a change of order for which the Christian People's Party is not ready to go in. We believe that the scheme is targeted as it is today for non-governmental organisations, and refer to our proposals when dealing with the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1136	SV shares many of the perspectives and considerations that the representative Stokkan-Grande addressed in his statement. The representative of Hope was inside that he thinks there was a bit of a scary socialist rhetoric, but not everyone in this room who thinks it's so scary with socialism. It is already the case that those who are well-off and those who have a lot of money in Norway can support the culture they want. That's good, but what's in this proposal is to give those who have much, even more power, not only through their own resources, but also over the means that the state administers – the means that we've jointly collected, and where we're going to jointly determine what kind of cultural purposes are important. There is always a discussion about what is culture, where the cultural institutions should lie – all these debates we have in the hall. I think it is good that democracy manages the common tax money that we have provided. Once again, I must also present to the representative Ib Thomsen's posts representing the right-hand side, which presents the market as freedom of choice. The representative, Håbreek, thought it was obvious that this would be a supplement to the cultural promise and no compensation. But the Progress Party is cutting 1 billion. kr in the cultural promise in its alternative budget, and then I understand that they need to find alternative funding methods. It is through the follow-up to the Cultural Promise and through the follow-up to the Museum Communication that we should strengthen this sector. Therefore, SV cannot support the proposal that is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1147	I think I also belong to those in the Chamber who think that socialism is really scary. I think it must be allowed to see this too. The left's aim with this proposal is to get a greater public commitment, a greater and wider responsibility, and make people care about their cultural institutions too. Our other goal is to get more money in sum for culture. I think that Hope made a very good contribution on the spread of power in terms of culture, which I think is thought-provoking. With regard to the entire cultural promise scheme, it is only a question of adding to the scheme without considering that if the state becomes such a major contributor, this should lead to the government allocating funds in such a way as to also spread power. I think it's a debate we almost haven't had in this room. There has been a debate here in the Chamber that more money is fine and nice, and we all agree on that. We in the Left have put more money into the cultural promise in every budget, but we have not had any debate on how this centres power in a society when culture is such an important freedom of expression channel as it is. Then I must say that I do not know if it was funny or if it was a little sad to listen to Stokkan-Grande. It was clear that there is a little lack of knowledge in the field. I've traveled a lot around Museums-Norway. I've visited a lot of museums. I have never met any museum staff who have opposed this scheme. And to put it like that, if you could go in and analyze who's getting a lot of money from individuals, who's been able to raise funds for projects, it turns out that it's actually not in the cities it's happened. The large individual donations have come to small district museums, to small settlements, from displaced Norwegian Americans and some who burn for it. It's actually in the districts it's happened. It's not the popular and big things. The largest donation in my time as a cultural agency was to the enamel jewellery collection in the Kunsthistorisk Museum – the enamel jewellery collection! It's not very popular, it's not very big, and there haven't been many big exhibitions with it. So these statements are actually wrong. It would have been possible for the government, if you had an open mind, to say that it was for such a gift enhancement scheme if there were good projects. An authorisation system could be set up for which projects could actually be triggered by State co-financing of such a grant-enhancing fund. If it's very important for the government to decide over all the heads, it can actually do it with such a model. What we've put in is a very open proposal to also be able to make such arrangements, so that it might be, for example. was only for museums in places with 5,000 people who were allowed to collect – if it was very important to get it to very small places. It is possible to do this control if you want. But this has become an ideological struggle. This is private money, and then it's against the community. It's actually for the community. It will give more money to the community. It will give more money to those things that are otherwise not popular. It gives more money to culture, and it would have strengthened the cultural promise to the government. They could have had more to boast of quite simply. The strangest of all the comments in the setting is probably the first remark from the government parties, which says that you are against ‘government funds being directed by private donors’. What I think is exciting is to see if all the other gift enhancement models are discontinued by the government – if so. the gift enhancement scheme in the field of research is now under way. In the health field, private people actually go in and control what it's going to be researched. The government thinks it's okay – it's not really wrong. But what farm buildings to renovate in what order on a farm fence is very important for the state to decide. But which parts of the cancer research we're going to continue – where we like to let private governance. This is out of the question – really not! Then I have to comment on the proposals of the Progress Party: I agree with the intention of many of the proposals of the Progress Party, but the Left may not vote in favour of the proposals, as they are accompanied by comments that we do not think fit the Left's approach to the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1170	The ideological interest in this cultural policy discussion is not what the representative of the SV and the representative of the Left believes about the term ‘socialism’. The most interesting thing is that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right in this discussion does not choose to mark distance from the Advance Party – the Advance Party that has a policy where they want this to be the kind of public support we are going to come with, that is, gift strengthening. It will, in my opinion, be a violation of the entire Norwegian cultural policy, and it will be an accident for all the local fires and museum staff working to care for our cultural heritage. I am proud of what we have implemented in the Cultural Promise, an increase in the budgets of the museums by 84 pst. So even though we've given a lot of money to the cultural promise, 68 pst, we're going to exceed 68 pst. in the allocation to the museums. So what we give to the museums is even more. This has led to, and here I totally disagree with the representative of the Progress Party, that we are taking care of our cultural-historical buildings on a far greater scale than other countries. What is the case with the state budget we decided last autumn, which is valid for the current year, is that we have just managed to prioritize building protection, especially along the coast. Now we have allocated more money to the Ryfylke Museum, which has a great responsibility to advise other museums on building protection. We've given money to the Vest-Telemark Museum. If we look at the museums that have been supported, I totally disagree with the representative of Skei Grande that this has led to a concentration of power. Rather the opposite. In the past, it was in this room or in the Ministry of Culture that which museum would receive what money. It was detailed management of the cultural sector. But after we've got a museum consolidation, we've actually transferred power locally. We have said in the budget for the current year that we should give more money to those museums that have great challenges, on the coast, that have many buildings. Then the individual museum locally decides which museums to restore. It's the decentralization of power. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus to meet the challenges of the museums, and the proposers point in particular to assembly management and building protection. We have also put some important leads in terms of the increase in the protection of buildings. The museums shall work consciously on documentation and continuation of the intangible cultural heritage relating to the protection of buildings. Knowledge and skills are crucial for maintaining the cultural heritage. So it has to be knowledge-based. I am pleased that we have a policy in which we will focus on the professional assessments that will give us about which museums are to be given increased funds. It is not the market to decide, but those who have good professional arguments for where the greatest effort is needed. I have also commissioned the Ryfylke Museum to investigate the protection of buildings at the museums in their state. It shall develop a methodology which shall be applicable also in other counties. In recent years, we have prioritised several investment projects that contribute to better collection management at the museums. Examples are the regional magazine at Sunnmøre Museum, Competence Center for Museum and Archives in Vestfold and East-Agder Cultural History Centre. In the case of the notified assembly management plan, we will receive a document from the Culture Council by 1 July this year. Here, we will be able to take stock of the full range of subject categories, as well as an assessment of measures and plans for the further development of museum collection management. As you can see, I have great faith in the means that we have at our disposal. If we use them in a good way, we're going to get a lot. That is why I have less faith in the kind of instruments proposed by the representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden. A gift-enhancing scheme will mean that the distribution of government funds is much more influenced by private donors. While the representative Schei Grande is constantly up on this pulpit and argues harshly against the grassroots fraction within Norwegian Typing because it leads to a biased distribution, she will thus introduce here additional power to give by also the state to match the amount that comes with it. Those who have private donors in their backs will queue first and be guaranteed additional government grants. I think that's unfortunate. It will not lead to good assembly management, and the buildings that need the most to be cared for will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1187	Not surprisingly, there will be a line chord change after this article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1191	We have a system today that can provide support for culture, and it's through private funds. Some believe that there will be more to more and that the museums will also benefit from this. The gift enhancement scheme is an additional scheme that I think is very, very good, and I think it is a pity that you don't want to assess or look at the scheme, which allows you to get more out of each crown. The operation is an example of an institution receiving private support. They receive a lot of money, and clearly: it goes at the expense of others. Obviously, they take away others when they take as much sponsoring money as they do. But this is a system that the Council of State seems to be quite ok, and almost encourages. But I'll say one more time, it takes away from others. So, what more money for the museums on new arrangements is the Council of State not willing to do, I understand, but in what other areas does the Council of State see that she can cooperate with private people in the museum sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1198	If the Progress Party had been able to implement its policy, the Opera – which the representative’s party voted against in its time – would have a lot of funding, as the representative had in mind. With the policies of the Progress Party, they would receive even more public support. It is clear that this would be more at the expense of smaller cultural institutions. Thus, with the policy for which the Progress Party argues, the desired objectives of the dissemination of cultural resources will not be achieved. In that case, the institutions that already have a lot of sponsoring funds will receive additional funding. It is quite obvious that we want more sponsorship, but that in addition it will manage the public budgets, I think it will be wrong. Over the last few years, we've been focusing on spreading, among other things. operate around the whole of Norway. We would not have done that without a public cultural policy, where we have focused on a cultural promise and that it should be governing how the funds are distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1205	Governments pointed out in their contributions to a major challenge for Norwegian museums, and it is about the maintenance of buildings. In fact, building protection, which is a major challenge in general, across the country, is no less at the museums, be it at the Norwegian Folkemuseum, at the Maihaugen or at many communities, where there are huge maintenance challenges. That means that there must be a lot of money, a lot more money and more money than what I think some cultural promise will ever be able to come up with, even though there have been large increases. My question to the Council of State is: How does she feel that such challenges should be solved if private operators are not to be used? In the case of a system like this described here, could you not even imagine entering it, so that it was within an acceptable framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1212	Such an approval system as the representative Skei Grande is in place would lead to additional bureaucracy, so that it would not lead to any simplification. I'm working with private people. I'm just opposed to the fact that when private money is given, it's also going to govern the public cultural budgets, because they have to be run on a professional basis, depending on where the needs are greatest. Many museums have many small buildings. The Ryfylke Museum is such an example. There it's expensive to run a museum. There are few people with great economic capital, and then we must be sure that the money is going your needs the most. So now we're building a plan where we're contributing more to cooperation between the different museums. The consolidation has also made it possible to employ professionals who can work with several museums within the same area. It contributes to better professional exploitation of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1219	I have no problem in that there is no agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties at this point. Here we separate layers. And it's good enough that you take a different position – I have respect for that. But that's the argument from the majority that I might have even bigger problems with than the vote itself, because here, in very big words, it's problematic that at all private engagement actually helps to express where it's harboring resources in the museum sector. The Council of State is a little more nuanced in its argument, but she also refers to these private gifts as the ‘market’ that should not govern the kind of raising that takes place. I have basically a simple question: Is private gifts to the museum a problem, or is it a good thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1226	Private gifts to the museum are a good thing, but it should not govern the public cultural budgets. It should be based on professional and popular priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1231	I notice that the government thinks it's more fun to have rich people in the nutrition panels of the Minister of Industry than to have them as contributors to culture. That's all right. Now, what I'm really asking about, based on the harsh ideological line and the clear principleal attitude expressed by the Minister of Culture, is whether she in government will take the initiative to remove the other gifts, such as those. research gift-enhancing. If it is very dangerous for private to influence cultural priorities, I assume that impact in the field of health and other important research areas will be even more dangerous. My question is, will the Minister of Culture take such an initiative in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1238	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1243	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1248	I am a little surprised at how menacing government parties perceive this proposal as, a proposal that appears to be quite innocent. It is an investigation proposal on something that it is fully possible to fence inside all ends and to take care of a lot of concerns – if you wanted to do so. But it's kind of a very blatant resistance, with a very ideological justification. For me, this seems to me to be a lack of understanding. That's what I'm saying because maybe it's a little slow to say lack of knowledge about what the museum field is all about. Governments are still concerned that this should not be done on a professional basis. Most major museums do not accept any gift. Most major museums actually have a committee – at least it has all the art museums that I know about – that assess whether the gifts they get are something they want to accept. In this way, the professional perspective is taken care of, and I wouldn't worry for a second that someone would put it on the line. Then I have to remind you of the history of most Norwegian museums. Where did they come from? It wasn't the state that decided the creation of very many of them, if any. The vast majority — not to say all — have been started by fires, by groups of people or by trade unions. Most major museums — not to mention many buildings and small museums — are run by associations of friends or by voluntary groups, or they run out of industries. We have a vehicle museum. In the field of transport and maritime transport, museums have museums where industries set up and take responsibility for cultural heritage in their fields of interest. It is quite a serious devaluement of this effort to suspect them not to contribute to professionalism or not to contribute to building up something that is important for the community. I think the government parties should perhaps go a little on their own and look at what magnitude, that is, what drama, should be in the proposal from the Left. There should have been greater openness in a field that is in truth quite a lot governed. The consolidation mechanism has led to stronger central governance. Through the development of ABM, now the Council of Culture, there is a leading role for development funds and research resources. It's exhibition grants. There are a number of mechanisms that make you feel the control from a central point of view. And the main objection to consolidation in many places was that the volunteers who made an effort, and the firemen who stood behind the museums, felt put on the sideline. Here you could have helped to afford some compensation for that. I notice that you do not want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1259	First a visit to Hope and in and of itself also Thommessen, as I feel confused at what has been said from this pulpit. As far as I've heard, no one here has expressed scepticism against private gifts. But that there will be a significant part of the funding of Norwegian museums, and that further government grants will be governed, we are very sceptical about it. So to Trine Skei Grande, who's been on a trip in District Norway and visited the museums. After all, she can take a trip to Nord-Trøndelag, her country of origin and my home country, look at the town halls there and hear what challenges they are facing. She might get some surprises. A project such as: The cream cream, which strives to get money from the Cultural Memory Fund, can get several thousand dollars if they can only increase the private grant. But in an economically poor region, where there's not much private capital either, and where you're already on the margin because fires have worn out on the projects, it's almost no longer possible to get through private capital. If it's going to be governing what you get from government grants, we're on wild roads, in my opinion. Let's take Ytterøy Bygdetun – an example from my hometown, with 400 inhabitants – driven one and alone by fires. And then we're going to say that if there's going to be any development here, it has to be through the private sponsorship of the people who have already spent thousands of hours maintaining the building mass and keeping the museum in operation at all. Then it's better that the community says that this is an important effort that we want to stimulate, and back up the many fires that we have around the country. Ib Thomsen and Trine Skei Grande say that the proposal implies that there will only be more to more. That's interesting to hear. Ib Thomsen says that, among other things. in his line to State Council Anniken Huitfeldt. But at the same time we know that the Progress Party has proposed to cut 1 billion. in cultural life. It's an operation that's challenging to jump into. I think it would be interesting to hear: does this mean that the bourgeois parties, with the Right Party and the Advance Party at the head, now say that they want to maintain the cultural promise, that it will not come cut there? In that case, there's an interesting news. If they don't come to the pulpit and confirm that that is the case, this is really just a disguised proposal to ensure the financing of the museum sector through private capital instead of public capital. It's an honest thing, but I think they can come up here and say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1271	The right does not believe – nor does the Christian People's Party or the Left – that this is a scheme to go at the expense of the grants given to the museums. It is clear from the observations made. If you think a little bit about which schemes are proposed, you'll soon realize that there won't be such amounts. If you formulate a solution like this, we're talking about relatively small amounts. There is nothing that would approximate the grants given to the museums today. It will be an extended form of grants that we already have in certain voluntary schemes. So you'd be able to put thresholds for this that would make such a scheme manageable. So I think there are ghosts that are not the basis for that. A perspective that is overlooked in silence is simply that the government grants that we can reasonably expect, including within the framework of the Cultural Promise, will not be sufficient to solve many tasks in the museum field. That means that it'll be natural to look around for some other ways. I think this is a good proposal. We are challenged to maintain the cultural promise. I would like to remind you that the cultural promise is built on Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's cultural message. So it's been going on from there. But even though we had a slightly different starting point at that time, there was a broad consensus in the Storting that there would be a raise on culture. While today's government parties at that time, I guess 1 billion. kr, I think that then government parties said approx. $800 million. kr. We wouldn't set the one percent, but otherwise we were also too significant lifting. In the years that have gone by, the then government parties, along with the Right, have actually fulfilled the promises we made in relation to the treatment of the cultural message. We've supported every penny the government has proposed. We've even had more money in some of these areas. For example, in the case of individual budgets over the years that have passed, the Right has had more money for the museums than the government parties had. So starting to go up here that you're kind of going to cut out the grants to the museums, I think I'm constructing a problem that lies in the borderland for what's honest. It's a shame the government isn't willing to be creative about how to solve the problems in the museum industry. There was a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1287	First of all, I would like to point out that what is being tried to do here, that is to make this a sort of debate on the further course of cultural policy and the commitment to public cultural budgets, is a pure derailment. I just refer to the comments in this case that we are dealing with here, which say some thing about the importance of government grants. I refer to the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party – and to the other opposition parties' own state budget – which speaks for itself about the direction we want in cultural policy. They are showing at least the same offensive bet on government grants, and for our part, we are going partly even further than the government has done. I have no desire to withdraw the debate so much longer, but I would like to say to the representative Stokkan-Grande: No, I am not interested in distorting or distorting what is said in the debate. I think it is useful to clarify, in the light of the introductions, that private gifts to the museum sector are positive, but that you do not want them to affect the public funds again. That's an honest and fair point of view. But we've heard a significant problematization that private involvement leads to a kind of biased distribution -- that those who give gifts, in a way affect the total bet and where that bet is directed, while what you want is that it's the professional considerations that should be leading. That problematization I think is a problem, to say it like that. The reality is that those gifts simply reflect that we have a common responsibility for our cultural heritage, for our common history and for our collective memory. The representative, Stokkan-Grande, mentioned the town halls. Yes, they are largely the result of an enormous voluntary effort to make these museums and important arenas work. This is because individuals either invest their money or their time and their efforts to ensure that just those museums will pass. Without public, professional assessments, they decide that they will put their efforts right there. That's exactly why they're in the museums, and the museums live on. It's a result of private choices and private assessments being made, and fortunately for that. I think we should be a little bit careful about problematizing that individuals make choices that affect what Culture-Norway and Museums-Norway look like. It's really nice that we take a joint responsibility. Continued to bet offensively on public budgets and a high level of engagement around the country is important both economically and in time for Museums-Norway to live actively on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1298	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1301	I'll be brief. Representatives from the Right and the Christian People's Party are not surprisingly elusive about my challenge, what this actually represents, and call it uninteresting to look at what you put in the bottom of the cultural promise. No, it's not uninteresting at all. If you ask everyone in the museum sector if they want more money, I think the answer is obvious. But if you ask, will you at the same time that a kitten 1 billion? kr in the Cultural Promise? Then I think the answer is pretty different. As you can see, it is interesting to know whether the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party is going to apply, or whether the Cultural Policy of the Right and Christian People's Party is going to apply. I perceive the signals of the Right and Christian People's Party as closing the door to what the Advance Party has proposed in its alternative state budget. That's an interesting news. Then the Progress Party has less to use for other purposes. But with the evasive attitude they have, I'm afraid that the fasitite is becoming quite a different one, and that Culture-Norway seems to end up in a cultural grave instead of still becoming a cultural promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1308	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1311	Thank you for that, President, I don't need any more, because I think we've got the arguments in the case. The representative Stokkan-Grande is a pure derailment, for it is stated in the remarks how we view this scheme in relation to government grants. We have delivered our alternative state budgets, and the majority of governments have voted against our proposals for increases in the cultural budgets. It reflects our policy. The arguments for the proposal are contained in the pen in the setting, and the red-green ones choose to vote against it, are quite correct. However, trying to make this a kind of course choice for either a cultural or cultural summit, with reference to one of the opposition parties' alternative budgets, is obviously a pure derailment. Our position is referenced in the setting and in our alternative budgets. That's where we stand. Let's go to voting on what's the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1323	I'll try to be short. This is a total derailment of the entire debate. It is an important proposal that exists from the Left, which Stokkan-Grande is now trying to do something completely different. I wish this matter had been dealt with quite differently from what is intended in the proposal, by opening up practical opportunities for the museum sector and the cultural sector to have more money to travel with than they have today. You start black-painting and say that the Progress Party cuts $1 billion in relation to its budget. Then I would like to ask Mr Stokkan-Grande to go and read the alternative budget for the Progress Party. The Progress Party does not have the large growth rate in the cultural sector. Nevertheless, this year’s budget from the Progress Party is as large as – if not higher than – what former Minister of Culture Giske was honoured by the cultural sector just four years ago. It's actually an increase in relation to what we had last year. The Progress Party has a slightly different device on its cultural budget. It has not been said that we will cut so much in the museum sector. In fact, in the budget of the Progress Party, we have not moved on to some projects in the museum sector, but we have gone on a number of administrative matters. This is a very good suggestion, and it is a pity that it has not received much more valuable treatment. The proposal actually opens up the possibility that the museum sector and the cultural sector can get more money, because we know that there is a serious need for funding. They should have had a lot more than they get today, and we know that there are a lot of donors out there who want to contribute. And that's not to say that it's going to be a rage, as the socialists in this room have been able to make it appear like.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1344	Then we're ready to vote. In Case No: 1-3 no voting form is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1379	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the government for an increase in the tax credit for gifts given to cultural practitioners and institutions, sports and voluntary non-profit institutions serving households.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to extend the scope of the actors eligible for the deduction scheme for gifts granted to cultural operators and institutions, sports teams and voluntary non-profit organisations.’.» The right has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1407	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of a State gift-enhancing scheme linked to private donations to Norwegian museums.’ The left is expected to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-01.ana.ud1180e1506	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
