ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e109	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Åge Starheim from 10 February onwards and until further notice from the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left on welfare leave for the representative of Hilde Magnusson from 14 February to 19 February from the representative of Dagfinn Højbräten on leave on 14 and 15 February for participation in meetings of the chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund in London On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug from 15 February until 18 February for the county of Rogaland: Kjell Arvid Svendsen 15 February for the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Anne June Iversen from 10 February until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e160	Anne June Iversen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e165	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the rapid treatment of criminal asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e170	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e173	I have the great pleasure on behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Dagrun Eriksen, Line Henriette Hämdal and myself to present representative proposals on residence times and opening hours in the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e178	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e194	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e210	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e224	As a backbone of this foreign policy statement, we and a whole world continue to follow developments in Egypt. Over a few weeks, the country's political future has come into play, a seemingly strong presidential regime falters, and the people's many voices reach the surface. A short time ago, the president of Tunisia fell after the people rose. President Mubarak is not going to re-elect, and the country's new government is now having talks with the opposition. We support democratic development in Egypt. It is the Egyptians who must decide the future of Egypt. The Egyptians must find the way forward towards national reconciliation and an orderly transition to democracy. Egypt’s position and stability are important for an entire region — yes, for large parts of Africa, throughout the Arab world and throughout the Middle East. A united message to those who have power and influence in Egypt – and to the representatives of the opposition groups – is to step towards each other, to take a joint responsibility for a peaceful transition to democracy. Norway is ready, with European partners, to contribute to the now announced democratic transition process. A common feature of authoritarian regimes is that they have a weak ability and poor channels to capture and interpret opinions and attitudes in the people. The power blends. Civil society is being held down. The distribution of power is lacking, and gradually weakens the legitimacy of those who sit with the apparatus of power. In the wake of such a concentration of power, we often see corruption, power abuse and non-discrimination. The events of the last weeks send a powerful message about the power of human legitimate demands for participation and influence. We see that this force can break through and get authoritarian regimes with powerful police and security devices to shake. And we see – as in previous crossroads in history – that the rise in food and petrol prices can be the spark that makes people rise. An American thought tank measured the belief in the future in some countries at the turn of the year, and the question was, Is your country developing in the right direction? 87 pst. by the Chinese, while in countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and France, between 28 and 21 pst. confirmatory, and in countries such as Brazil and India somewhere in the middle: 45-50 pst. The survey reveals a trend that tells us something about our time: in Western countries, which have often been characterised by belief in the future and ability to adapt, there is greater scepticism and unrest about the future, while in countries that experience strong growth and development, the majority associate their future with opportunities and better lives. While the turmoil for the future is more easily catching the headlines in our part of the world, we should raise our eyes and see this: probably no more people in the world have ever looked to the future with greater optimism – people who now look a path out of poverty, towards better health and more opportunities for greater freedom. We should not underestimate the importance of emotions in foreign policy. Collective emotions can overthrow a regime, as in Tunisia, make it waver, as in Egypt, repatriate a country after a war, stamp an entire population, or give people the belief that the community can build a new future. Moods and currents of faith, hope, fear or humiliation contribute to influencing the space for foreign policy action. The factor that may have had the greatest impact on the space for action in 2010 is the change. The year has been a unique reminder that the world is in a transitional phase, where the changes are experienced in a number of areas. The financial crisis continues to go through its phases, leading in several countries to an economic crisis and for some to a major social and political turmoil. State financial imbalances are paralysing the economic freedom of states that are close to us, over the Atlantic and on our own continent. The power conditions in the world are shifted geographically. There is nothing new, but the trend is reinforced after the financial crisis. New countries are moving up to the main world policy arena. China’s economic and environmental — and to a greater extent political — footprint has become clearer. We see new balances of power in the global world society, of which Norway is such an integral part. The world is not dominated by two rival powers, as in the cold war. The world is not led by the United States, as in the years that follow. The world is multipolar, with more and some new powers. This is the new normal. The power between countries is distributed more representatively, and it is progress. But it doesn't make the world easier to rule; it's not easier to agree on norms and values, not easier to agree on complicated agreements, nor easier to contribute to peace and disarmament. But if it's not simpler, it's all the more necessary. These are trends that shape the foreign policy presentation this year, and we have to ask: How is Norway affected? What's our room for action? What choices do we have? So we're living in a foreign policy incubation period. There is a change of pace in a number of areas. Power is shifted, economies, cultures and societies are weaved together. China's economic and technological advances are behind schedule. Recently, the country has established itself as the second largest economy in the world. This will gradually have political consequences. Never in history has a country failed to switch its economic and technological power into political influence. In 2011, it is expected that China will lend more money to developing countries than the World Bank’s global lending. Chinese companies buy Elkem. China buys up in Europe's sovereign debt. We have to stop seeing this as something new. This is also the new normal. On the other hand, the news picture captures the impression of a weakened United States, with large debt – government and private – political contradictions, high unemployment and increased fear of economic setbacks for large populations. Many have predicted the decline of the United States, several times. In the 1960s, there was a fear that the Soviet Union would pass through the United States in economic development. 20 years later, the same prediction was made of Japan. None of this happened. At the same time, the changes are significant. Internationally, the United States is measured against an influence that was. That's why this is a contrast to today's situation, where the relative power of the United States is being reduced. Neither can we see this as something new. Again, this is the new normal. Such developments capture the headlines, and they are not without a basis, but we should warn against simplification and the one-dimensional. Yes, a number of countries experience strong economic growth. Brazil stands out with democratic maturity, economic growth, increased well-being and social stability, relatively speaking. But it's not like that for a lot of other countries in growth. In many countries, high growth is balanced at the top of social unrest, political tensions, corruption, unstable food markets and high food prices, rapid population growth and increased disparities. For countries with strong growth and authoritarian governance, there may be a public surprise behind the next quarterly economic report. Parts of such a story are now unfolding in North Africa and the Middle East. The United States and Europe are struggling with both debt and the aftermath of the financial crisis. But we must not underestimate the strength of the mature democracies. Here we continue to deal with the world's leading economies, leading universities, leading companies, a knowledgeable population and living and diverse civil society. The U.S. has a military service that is still the dominant of the world. And the freedom and opportunities resulting from the organisation of democracies and the strength of human rights give the societies in what we understand as the West, both strength and advantage in terms of innovation, innovation and social stability. To this end, we will add the level of cooperation developed in different regions. Looking at Asia, we see strong growth economies, but we also see unresolved regional tensions in a world of weak cooperation arrangements, unresolved sovereignty and border issues, as well as old issues of conflict from the various conflicts in history that are not settled. For Norwegian foreign policy, it is about taking good care of the close links with allies and economic partners in our part of the world and developing our links with countries outside this circle. The overwhelming part of our trade continues to go to our neighbourhoods. This makes our cooperation with the EU a continuing priority. The government looks forward to the suspension of the sample evaluating the functioning of the EEA Agreement. Against this background, a communication will be promoted to the Stortinge on cooperation with the EU. Our aim must continue to be to ensure predictability for Norwegian business, good political channels for the promotion of Norwegian interests and continued access on equal terms for Norwegians, whether they trade, work, study, research or travel as tourists. For Norwegian security policy, the transatlantic anchoring is firmly established. Here it is now a less profiled military dimension than during the Cold War. With Norway’s geography and developments in the north, the political dimension of anchoring is of the utmost importance. We're earned to keep our close relationship with the United States alive. Norway will aim to seek support for key international principles and the development of modern legal rules in our neighbourhoods, as strongly characterised by the sea – sustainable resource use, established and new transport years, and closer cooperation between countries and regions in and around the Arctic. We will seek community interests and cooperation with the United States for a strengthened international legal order, a more effective UN, a modern NATO alliance, an up-to-date and constructive cooperation with Russia – a United States that contributes to finding solutions to global challenges. We will continue to show that we take responsibility in our neighbourhoods, that we have the capacity and the will to enforce our sovereignty in Norwegian areas and exercise authority where we have jurisdiction. Defence has an important role to play – independently and in cooperation with civil institutions in this context. The adoption of a new strategic concept at the NATO Summit last November was a milestone for the alliance. It clearly states that NATO's main task is collective defence. The alliance underlines its attention to the challenges in the neighbourhood and does not allow operations far from the Member States to go at the expense of the overall task of the alliance. NATO needs to do both, and the new concept reflects this balance in a good way, as Norway actively worked for. This year the practical implementation begins. This means, among other things: reform of NATO's command structure, which needs to be reduced, more flexible and more closely integrated with national resources. A new partnership policy will also be developed. We are starting a systematic review of the alliance's nuclear strategy, the spurred by President Obama's arrest, both through the new START agreement with Russia and through the new guidelines of the U.S. nuclear policy itself. Norway, together with Poland, has worked actively to reduce the tactical nuclear weapons on the agenda. We will follow this matter closely. We have a lot in common with the Obama administration's foreign policy course – thematic and geographical. Cooperation with the United States on e.g. global health and the fight against sexualised violence both serve these themes and help to create a basis for dialogue on other issues as well. We are engaged in resolving some of the world's most difficult conflicts – from Sudan via the Middle East to Afghanistan. We will further exploit this in our close cooperation with the United States, even if the President will have to make compromises in Congress, and even if major and urgent economic tasks in the United States will prevail to an even greater extent than before. For Norway, it is of particular interest to follow the development of the EU as a political actor – in Europe, but also on the wider international scene. Also here is much moving and much still unclear in the light of the state financial crisis in many countries. This is important for Norway, because this is where we find our neighbours, partners and allies, our main trading partners and markets for placing our financial assets, because our foreign policy positions are so consistently linked to the Europeans, and because Europe's impact on different issues of value and interest is so often coincided with the possibility of getting an impact on Norwegian views. Changes in Europe have many driving forces. The EU itself has set the course of change; through the enlargement of 10 new countries, through the single currency and through the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. In sum, this is about a heavy agenda for follow-up and implementation. The task is not yet overdue. Eurocooperation, which includes 17 countries with Estonia as the last arrival, has major economic and institutional challenges. The sovereign debt crisis in some euro area countries has revealed the need to strengthen economic policy coordination. This has significant political and institutional implications, and many new and old lines of conflict are different. This whole agenda is now being subjected to further pressure through the aftermath of the financial crisis. Overall, Europe is experiencing new growth, in some countries significant, but other countries are left in a cross-budget of large debt, large deficits and weak or no growth. We see here a picture of a situation that is unsustainable: from the unsustainable in large queues of unemployed people, particularly serious among young people with and without education, to the great social consequences of national convergence programmes and the management of large debts and large deficits in many countries. In some countries, this has turned into frustration, social unrest, discouragement and abstinence, a sum that can easily create a breeding ground for populism. In the most disadvantaged EU countries, the labour market situation has led many newly educated academics to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a free labour market to move to other Member States where opportunities are better and more. This is a positive side to the common labour market we're part of. But one side effect is that the countries in crisis are being cut off from the labour force that could ideally help to reverse the situation. Here we can see an impact of the many restrictions in many EU countries on our home arena: the international search for Norwegian higher education has increased so strongly for the coming academic years that the University and Higher Education Council sit down in its own meetings to discuss how to manage to get through the application bases. The task of cutting deficits and reducing debt is the responsibility of each of the affected countries. Political tensions and instability – which we have seen on an increasing scale around – are occurring primarily at land level. This is where the political costs will be felt most strongly for democratically elected national parliaments and governments. This will shape the overall strength of the EU in the time to come. Many of our partner countries will thus have an agenda quite different from our own. In parallel with the management of the economic crisis, we are following the establishment of the EU's new foreign service, which will give the common foreign and security policy more weighty and clearer direction. The new institutions shall be filled with common policies and support the new external service with overall political strength. Significant political energy is now being used to establish institutions, allocate posts and positions. As is natural, ongoing clarifications of the distribution of power between the new institutions follow. One impression is that a lot of political energy in this phase is involved in internal Brussels-based draw matches. This may help to weaken the political footprint externally. It is in Norway’s interest that the EU succeeds in pursuing a clear and comprehensive foreign policy, that Europe’s voice can be heard in important international forums. Norway and the EU often have similar foreign policy positions — in terms of human rights, rule of law, climate and environmental policy and much more. We are now working to continue and further develop consultation arrangements for Norway in this new structure with the EU. We have established channels for consultations in the old setup, and we want to continue them in the new. This applies as before: we are listened to where we have relevant knowledge and competence. But it makes greater demands that we on the Norwegian side are coordinated, focused and see the possibilities. The new EU external service will take over the responsibility for EU coordination of the EEA Agreement. The European Commission, represented by its various departments, will continue to be our partner in the various disciplines where regulatory developments in the EU take place. Our right to participate in expert groups and committees assisting the Commission in the development of legislation is provided for in the EEA Agreement. We also follow with interest how the national foreign policy of the EU countries is characterised by stronger coordination. We're witnessing a cultural shift now. Most countries have long traditions as foreign policy actors. At the same time, a common foreign policy has emerged in the last decade. With the establishment of the new institutions, the 27 must find even more clearly this balance between common markers and their own policies. There is no template for this balance point. But the institutions' power and weight do their own. Foreign policy energy is drawn towards Brussels. In the national policy design, we see some results: many countries are building up their own foreign representation, mainly as a result of savings in the wake of the financial crisis, but probably also as a result of EU common policies in the longer term. It also matters to us when there are closures and reduced presences, especially among our Nordic neighbours. We see an upgrade of issues that have a pronounced national agenda and therefore are not captured by the common policy design. Promotion is such an area. The EEAS is becoming even clearer an instrument to support its own businesses in new markets. And we're going to notice this. The EU countries are our partners, but their businesses are among the top competitors of our businesses. The EEA funds continue to represent an important instrument for strengthening bilateral relations with the recipient countries of the EU. Because we are seeing the emergence of bilateral and regional contacts, and once again it is happening under the radar screen of the common policy design in the EU. Earlier this week, the leaders from Poland, East Germany and France met for security policy discussions. The UK initiative for British-Nordic-Baltic cooperation is another example, but it goes on – to clusters of closer regional cooperation in all corners of our continent. This sets Nordic cooperation in an interesting light, making the regional bodies in the north – from the Arctic via Barents to the Baltic Sea and the northern dimension of the EU – an important expression of established border cooperation. So here we have a room for action. We will take advantage of this, including: within the Nordic region, when we follow up the recommendations of the Stoltenberg report as part of the development of even closer civil and military cooperation. In the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, on foreign policy in the previous period, it was widely agreed that Norway should engage with new actors and that defence and promotion of our interests will not stop at the Norwegian border. This engages us and is an exciting task, not only for foreign policy, but also for Norwegian business, culture, civil society and policy-making in a wide range of other areas – from climate to health, migration and refugees. In the new world picture, the countries of what we have called the West experience that they are no longer in the majority of global organisations. When the UN was founded, the world had 50 states, now the number is closer to 200. It provides guidance for the type of work that Norway should use in multilateral work, for example: in the field of human rights. In order to succeed, it is not only enough that we turn to the countries that are closest to us and that basically mean the same thing as us. We have to expand the horizon and seek alliances with moderate forces outside our own group of Western countries. We have significant common goods to develop with many countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia, and we are systematically focusing on this in our UN work and in the development of bilateral relations. Among the most important areas of the UN General Assembly and as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, in which Norway has engaged in the last year, has been the adoption of a resolution on stopping the use of executions as a criminal form, the commitment to increased protection of human rights activists, the identification of laws that discriminate against women, and the recognition of lesbian, gay, biphilic and transpersonal rights. An example that illustrates the new forms of work, and which I would like to dwell on in this presentation, is the development of Norway's relationship with Indonesia, an important country in the broad eastern horizon – far from us geographically, but severally more closely when we focus on all the interests we share. Geopolitically, Indonesia is emerging as a more and more central player. The country has nearly 240 million inhabitants, the world's largest Muslim population, gone from authoritarian rule to democracy and has positioned itself as a bridge builder both in the region and globally. It is the largest economy in Southeast Asia, is an active UN policy and is a central member of the G20. After many years of systematic construction, Norwegian-indonesian cooperation has speeded up – in climate and energy, global health, the Millennium Goals, disarmament, democracy and human rights, as well as international political issues and economic trade. 2010 was thus an important year. Within climate change, Norway and Indonesia have committed themselves to cooperation on a global common promise to prevent climate change, indicated by cooperation to protect the rainforest – a forest partnership that roots and inspires others. In May, a Memorandum of Understanding was concluded in this area, and in November in Jakarta, I signed a Joint Declaration on Cooperation and Close Consultations. Through EFTA cooperation, Norway has recently launched negotiations on a trade agreement with Indonesia. Such an agreement will benefit business in both countries and contribute to increased trade and investment. Multilaterally, we are gradually expanding cooperation in the UN and other forums. Indonesia is for us a co-player in disarmament and non-proliferation, and it is connected to most of the global arms control agreements. Among other things, we have close cooperation to strengthen the Convention on Biological Weapons, in particular in the field of disease surveillance. The human rights dialogue between Norway and Indonesia — the tenth of this year’s series — forms an important part of bilateral relations and is an arena for political and thematic discussions for authorities, academia and civil society. Last autumn, in cooperation with Indonesia, we also organised a regional Asian conference on the need to strengthen the protection of civilians in the armed conflict. The first security policy consultations at the level of office between Norway and Indonesia were held in Jakarta in January. More will follow. Indonesia is therefore an example of a country that is not close to Norway, but a close partner in an interest perspective, based on mutual trust and in a long-term perspective. Ten to twenty years ago, it would be difficult to predict such a partnership. A similar course, but adapted to the individual countries, we follow with countries like India, Brazil and South Africa, as well as Russia. We are not going to be too far, but we are now moving foreign policy resources in order to be able to give greater priority to the follow-up and emphasis of these countries. Next month, the government will launch its own Brazil strategy. We are stepping up efforts to conclude the EFTA negotiations on a trade agreement with India, and we are well in the process of implementing the India strategy, where trade has been going on since 2005. In December 2010, Norway launched a new research project with leading institutions in the United States, South Africa, Brazil and Indonesia under the Foreign Policy and Global Health Initiative. I mention this as a few examples. The relationship with China is in a special position. This is due to China’s importance, growth and influence, but also to all opportunities open to Norway. Overall, we note significant developments in relations – economically, politically and culturally. There has been a wide-ranging exchange of visits, sometimes at a high level, including: in connection with our participation in the World Expo 2010 in Shanghai, and increasingly developed broad-based connections, which is in line with our China strategy, which we have followed since 2007. The human rights dialogue has been substantive and served as a venue for a wide range of Norwegian organisations and bodies and their counterparts. Of particular interest, we have noted Chinese interest in Norwegian welfare state experiences. China doesn't copy anybody, but they're picking up experiences from almost everyone. The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to human rights champion Liu Xiaobo made the focus sharp. The Chinese authorities clearly stated, prior to the award, that such a price would have consequences for our relations. The Norwegian Government, on its side, stressed the independence and integrity of the Committee on a principle basis and in advance of the Nobel Committee's decision. The point of view was repeated and deepened after the allocation in December. We record that the political links are well under way after the allocation. We take note of China's reaction. We present the independence of the Nobel Committee. We reiterate our protest against Liu Xiaobo's imprisonment and treatment, and we express our view on the importance of China's respect for human rights – including freedom of expression. At the same time, we are aware of the importance of economic and social progress that has lifted millions of Chinese out of poverty. Now we have to look forward. Norway and China have a broad and sound basis for cooperation. We want to build on this. It's not about one-way relationships. They are two-way and developed in line with common interests. And there are many such things to address for Norway and China: work on a free trade agreement, which will give businesses in both countries new opportunities for cooperation in the Arctic, where Norway supports China's accession as an observer to the Arctic Council of Trade, Investment and Technological Cooperation policy dialogue on a wide range of issues – from well-being to security policy, from climate, environment and energy to cooperation on the prevention of humanitarian crises, a wider dialogue on human rights and society, within the framework of the human rights dialogue; A world with a greater spread of power has clear positive sides – because the spread of power also means the spread of responsibility. At the same time, however, the challenges of effective global governance are increasing. This should be taken up by Norway, which has always had a great interest in a well-organised world with clear respect for an international legal order. Now we feel that the international governance system, which was largely established after World War II, is under further pressure. We do not see an overall action force that can establish something basic new, nor implement deeper reforms. We see that progress in working with large agreements with global reach stops when the counter-interests play out. We clearly see this in the contrasts of interest around the climate negotiations. The world does not get what the world requires. And we see it in the pursuit of a new global trade agreement in the WTO. How should Norway deal with a changing governance landscape? First of all, we're going to call about what works, and that's actually a lot. In spite of the effort to conclude the Doha Round on a new trade agreement, the WTO continues to play an important role in protecting against new protectionism and keeping intact a regulatory framework with firm mechanisms to ensure that they are respected. We want to do our part to help the Doha negotiations get the last decisive push on a final agreement, ten years after they started. Strengthening the multilateral trading system is fundamental to an open economy such as the Norwegian one. Furthermore, we will play our role in all the bodies that, after all, ensure good governance and regulatory development – many of them in the United Nations system. At the same time, the UN needs a sustained reform process. We have contributed and will continue to contribute to reform. The key elements of the reforms presented in the investigation led by Prime Minister Stoltenberg are now being implemented – from the implementation of ‘A United Nations’ at country level to the establishment of ‘UN Women’, a United Nations Global Organisation for Gender Equality and women’s rights. We are active together with our Nordic neighbours within the framework of the World Bank and the IMF. At the same time, efforts to reform the Security Council remain silent. Most people see obvious candidates for new members, but the field is full of counterpowers that have so far blocked the decisive grips. Norway should continue to be a clear voice for reform, efficiency and better governance. A good friend of the United Nations — Norway’s — is a demanding friend, holds the UN responsible and shows zero tolerance for poor governance and poor use of resources. When Norway enters UN bodies, we will do so with gravity and commitment, as we do in the UN Human Rights Council and in the World Health Organisation, WHO, where Norway sits on the board until 2013, and as we will do so as a new member of the Peace Building Commission. At the same time, we see that outside the UN, new structures are emerging based on broader partnerships and power structures other than those we are used to within the UN system. Not least, we have seen this in global health in recent years – with the GAVI vaccine alliance and the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, as leading examples. New partnerships with the private sector, civil society and developing countries, more modern and dynamic management systems and a stronger focus on measurable results – all this has been necessary to trigger new funds and target the efforts. The launch of a global strategy for women and children by the UN Secretary-General last September, based precisely on the new structures and the idea of partnership, is a recognition of the need for reforms. Norway has led a lot of this reform work, as we have done in the rainforest and REDD+, and we will continue to play a role in linking UN agencies and new initiatives in an appropriate way. We are now preparing our own announcement to the Stortinget about our work on global health issues. With more power centers in our multipolar world and without a powerful global governance system, no state alone has its own power to say where to stand. The establishment of G20 is one of the symptoms of this. When G20 came into focus as the center of global governance, it was primarily in the economic field. There is little doubt that the G20 played a crucial role after the financial crisis broke out in 2008. But the force of action was greatest in the early days, when the common interest in countering the global crisis was strongest. In the future, the G20 has established itself as a leading structure for heavy international decision-makers. As I said, it is positive if important decisions are taken by as representative assemblies as possible and that they are effective. This supports Norway. However, experience appears to show that difficult cases may not necessarily be easier to resolve among 20 countries than among nearly 200. Also the G20 consists of several competing poles. Issues can also be asked about the legitimacy of the group. The G20 is self-appointed, the mandate is unclear, and – pointed out – questions can be asked about whether we, like Norway, should take what seems to be a dictatorship from a group of which we are not a member or have chosen. Another concern is that the discussions of the group may help to weaken the content of the cooperation actually taking place in other bodies. Solutions may be perceived as being pre-cleared among the largest. So we see clear dilemmas – on the one hand limited and sometimes decision-making units, such as the G20, but with weak legitimacy; on the other hand, large collective collections of countries, such as in the UN, but without consensus and with weak efficiency. Norway's line is to seek direct contact with the G20 Presidency, in order to make concrete representations on matters of importance to us, as the finance minister and I did to the French Presidency last week. We also ask that the contacts between the UN General Assembly and the G20 be structured and formalised. And finally, we believe that the G20 would be on a more systematized, regional representation – something modelled on the regional seats in the IMF. We notice that these are thoughts that the French G20 Presidency is also looking at with interest. The multipolar order also has other effects today. In the absence of a clear centre for central decisions, we see a regional headshot. This can be explained by the many common issues experienced by countries that are close to each other geographically. In isolation, this is positive, but this is also not an adequate response to many of today's most obvious and common challenges in climate, energy, trade and disarmament. Norway supports many of today’s regional groupings of countries. We are also the leaders of such organisations that are in our part of Europe. The alarming thing in today's picture, however, is the weakening of the ability of global governance. Several bridges are needed between different regional cooperation organisations and better links are needed for the new organisations to the established frameworks such as the UN and the IMF. In a world where power is spread and questions are asked by old authorities, it is urgent to mobilise the power of action to face some of the world's most complex conflicts – conflicts where the years have revealed that military power and violence cannot bring lasting peace, conflicts where the parties involved must show wide political courage and action, and where the international community must contribute, facilitate and support the path to peace and reconciliation – or mobilize relief work to remedy the serious humanitarian situation we are now witnessing with the drought in East Africa, or more united force to face the consequences of rising food prices and a growing food crisis. The challenge posed by countries in disintegration, or failed states, is great, and the ability of the world community to deal with the situation does not go far enough. Somalia is the leading example. Pirate activities in the Gulf of Aden reach far beyond the Indian Ocean and south in huge areas, and Norwegian shipping and Norwegian shipping interests face major challenges. The government is committed to contributing to this problem by Norway, both by assessing a new Norwegian marine contribution to the international forces and by focusing on the situation on land, where the problem originates. Norway makes a solid contribution to stabilising Somalia, including emergency aid, stepping up efforts to prosecute pirates, financing prisons, and establishing preventive measures for shipping and intercepting money laundering – a work coordinated by the International Contact Group. As regards the issue of armaments on Norwegian ships, there are a number of questions that the government intends to resolve in a timely manner. I would also like to mention three current conflicts: in Sudan, the Middle East and Afghanistan. Sudan is at a crossroads. Peace in 2005 was a breakthrough that ended many decades of war and suffering, but it remained to build peace. In January, the people in the south used their opportunity to vote on their own future. The result is an overwhelming majority of independence. Until July, there will be demanding negotiations on premises for sharing. A lot remains, and a lot is at stake. After all the sun brands, Africa is given a new state from the summer and it is taking Norway as its target to recognise. Norway was the birth aid for the 2005 Peace Agreement. With the United States and the United Kingdom, we are now a troika for the follow-up to the mechanisms of the agreement. However, the central player from the outside today is the African Union, AU, and the Sudan Panel led by former President Mbeki. Norway supports the fact that African votes are the leading, AU and the most affected neighbours. So much is at stake both regionally and – broaderly – internationally, that the troika and actors such as China and the EU must be on the road. In addition to the ongoing diplomatic work, Norway will pay particular attention to the oil sector and the negotiations on how north and south can both share and cooperate. Both depend heavily on oil revenues, and both have a big downside if they don't come to an agreement. Similarly, the upside can be made clear if they succeed. We will work on this as a goal in close contact with the rulers in the north and the rulers in the south. In addition, Norway is committed to agreeing with the parties on future civil rights before the expiry of the peace agreement. Since October last year, some 200,000 people have returned from north to south. For the Israel–Palestine conflict, 2011 is a year of fate – as if not every year in this conflict is about the fate of people in a long and bitter battle – people who in large numbers and large majority say they want and are ready for peace based on compromises and negotiations, but where leaders are unable to translate this will into a firm effort to overcome the contradictions and give Palestinians their own state and Israel security within their own borders. In September of this year, the deadline is to agree on a peace settlement and the establishment of a Palestinian State, as President Obama, Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas agreed in September 2010, when they gave themselves one year to negotiate. In September, it is also a year since President Obama of the UN spokesman said his goal was to welcome next year's general assembly to a new state – and then he set out for Palestine and not South Sudan. In August to September this year, Palestinian Prime Minister Fayyad is likely to have implemented his reform plan for the construction of credible state institutions for a Palestinian State. In September last year, the World Bank declared to the donor country group AHCL, led by Norway, that with the progress of the reform work, the Palestinian self-government authorities were now ready to establish a state in the near future. This future is probably the next summer – the one coming. There is little help with state institutions if there is no country. We must note that there is little or no progress in the absence of direct negotiations on this. Leaked Palestinian negotiating documents do not give a complete picture of the course. Some believe that the leakages are giving rise to claims that President Abbas has been prepared to extend very far for an agreement. Equally striking is that Israel has not found room to approach a solution on such a basis. It simply lacks the will, trust and ability to take these negotiations forward. The United States, which has a very special role as a facilitator and an active driver, obviously does not have the means, the ability or the will to push forward such a consensus. Clear opinions from the Middle East Quartet of the United States, the United Nations, the EU and Russia are not sufficient either. Norway will support all efforts to move in months to come. As head of the donor country group, AHLC, we will continue our efforts to assist the Palestinian self-government authorities in the implementation of the Fayyad reform plan. We have scheduled a next meeting in Brussels in April in close cooperation with EU Foreign Affairs Commissioner Catherine Ashton. Norway will co-chair a new donor country conference for the Palestinian authorities in Paris in June. We will, in cooperation with the UN Secretary-General, invite you to the annual AHCL meeting in New York in September. We are facing the final round of political negotiations, where the parties have the primary responsibility, but where neighbours and the international community must play a clear and consistent role. If the negotiations do not progress, the vision of the two-state solution is in danger of collapsing. Today, Norway and other countries face an unsustainable situation under international law with occupation and a de facto annexation of occupied countries. We are in a long-standing political and diplomatic state of emergency, where the hope of a negotiated solution makes large parts of the world society also expect the occupation to go to the end. If the advertised end does not come, the picture could change. The state will emerge from its proper name — illegal seizure of occupied land and discrimination against people within the borders of a geographical area. It will not benefit the moderate cancers, rather the extremes. That vision of the future should inspire all parties to step up their efforts to find a peaceful solution. I will later brief the Storting on Afghanistan – there is an announcement on that topic – and therefore limit the mention of that picture in my presentation today. In Afghanistan, too, the test will be whether there is a capacity and willingness for political negotiations between the parties, but with decisive contributions from the neighbours of the region and the wider international community. Following the Kabul Conference in July and the NATO Summit in November 2010, the course has been set for the gradual transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan security forces. It's progress, but the security situation is getting worse. Intensive US military pressure against the Taliban groups around the country has been going on since last summer. Coming spring and summer will show if it's changed the force ratio on the ground. The security situation in the north of the country, including in areas where Norway has military forces, has deteriorated since last summer and poses a major challenge for the entire ISAF coalition. A lasting solution will have to lie along a political trail. Afghans must find the way to the negotiating table with Afghans. President Karzai has facilitated a more active follow-up to this track through the establishment of a separate Peace Council. At the same time, we know that an Afghan peace settlement will have to involve neighbouring countries. Among other things, there is a need to: identify a common understanding between Afghanistan and Pakistan, and it needs to be much more closely involved from the countries of the neighbourhood of Afghanistan. Norway supports developments along these tracks, and we will – where we have capacity and position – contribute in such a direction. An entire world, including us, looks to the east and to the south – where the new growth economies come forward and set new agendas, offer new opportunities, challenge established truths. I have mentioned China and Indonesia as examples. Let me then take a long leap, in theme and geography, to another horizon, the horizon in the north, to the north, the government's strategic main field of action. More and more people are also looking north, towards the changing horizon of climate change, a new geopolitical reality and with increasing international interest in the region’s resources and transport years. The horizon in the north -- it's here with us. Here, we're involved in creating the space for opportunity. Here we are ourselves a main actor. In 2010, key achievements along several lines were achieved, and the policy of the north is precisely this – to see different lines in context: the basic issues of international law, cooperation across the Arctic region, issues of management, environment and industrial development, practical cooperation between neighbours in the north to find solutions to concrete issues. In total: policies for work, welfare and peaceful coexistence in the north. Here we see one of these new regional growth centres where the most affected countries come together in innovative regional cooperation. Centrally, the agreement with Russia is about the maritime demarcation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic Sea, which was dealt with here in the Stortingen two days ago. The agreement is, as was said, historic. It addresses the main outstanding bilateral issue with Russia, fully in accordance with maritime law and international principles. The agreement also opens up increased cooperation on the development of industrial opportunities in the north. The agreement on the maritime demarcation has also been noted in the world; a clear signal that the Arctic is a region where disagreements can be resolved peacefully between neighbours. Through the agreement and in recent years' cooperation with Russia in the Arctic, we have made it clear that our two countries have a number of common interests in this region. That's a foundation we'll build on. The international interest in the development of the Arctic continues to increase. For us, it is important that this interest should be safeguarded in the best possible way and in institutional forms. I'd like to mention three. First, the northern dimension, where the EU, Iceland, Norway and Russia participate, and where we had chaired until the Oslo Ministerial Meeting in November, the second in the range of this new regional arrangement. Here we agreed to extend cooperation with two new partnerships, in transport and logistics and culture. Secondly, Norway takes over the Presidency of the Barents Council for the autumn. We aim to further develop work in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy in the region, health and social, rescue and preparedness, cross-border people-to-people cooperation and increased industrial development. Thirdly, in the Arctic Council, there is agreement among the Member States to strengthen this forum, and we are discussing how best to do this. Five years ago, the Council strove with visibility and relevance. Today, the biggest challenge is how to meet the great interest of states that want to join as observers. Norway’s position is that we should quickly find a system for the interested observers. Norway is well served to discuss the key Arctic issues in a body in which we are fully involved. We also want new initiatives to provide more relevant knowledge of the challenges and opportunities in the Arctic, from climate to economic development and transport, from health to search and rescue to the position of marine and indigenous peoples. Norway and the countries of the Arctic Council are the leaders in the development of an International Polar Water Navigation Code, the Polar Code, which is being dealt with by the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO. At the end of last year, at the initiative of the Arctic Council, an international search and rescue agreement was also negotiated in the Arctic, which is scheduled to be signed at the Greenland Council of Ministers in May. There is also considerable progress in border cooperation with Russia, inspired by the agreements signed by Norway and Russia during the visit of President Medvedjav to Norway last April. In November 2010, we signed an agreement on border residence certificates, and I hope it will come into force during the year. At the same time, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov and I are designing a declaration on the further development of border cooperation, with a set of common priorities, with which experts from both countries are now working further. Among these are the follow-up of the border resident certificate with several practical reliefs, e.g.: in the case of the labour market and measures to increase capacity at border stations in order to cope with more traffic. Let me add here: we've done a lot of Norwegian actions in this area, and we also now expect there to be reciprocity on the Russian side, so that the reliefs apply both ways. At the bottom of the Nordgebietsatsingen we find the new strategic projects from the document «New building blocks in the north» from March 2009. We are well located – 80 pst. of the measures taken. The total appropriations for north-eastern actions above the State budget for this year are 1.2 billion. kr. The international interest in research cooperation in the north is also high, and an example is the cooperation on the research infrastructure SIOS, which develops Svalbard as an international research platform, where countries such as China, Russia, Germany and France are involved. In the Communication on the Northern Region Policy presented to the Stortinget before the summer, the government will provide a summary of the international developments of importance for the northern regions and the main lines of Norway’s policy in the north. Finally, the signs of time are profound changes. The task of foreign policy is to deal with them, and the objectives of foreign policy are at present to make domestic policy possible. For us, it is an overall objective to defend democracy, the rule of law, human rights and international humanitarian law. We must work to see that the power of change strengthens these values and does not weaken them. In the 1990s, there was talk of a so-called Washington consensus, where the liberal democratic model of society was at the centre of international politics. Researchers wrote about the "end of history" where this model was still winning. Today, the picture is different. We see the contours of several competing social models. The global wave of democratization, which began in the 1980s, and which continued with strong force in the decade after, has ceased. We see combinations of authoritarian boards and open market economies that deliver both growth and prosperity. Developing countries are not just looking towards the West for inspiration. They look at the rest, and they see new possible role models from completely different regions. The last decade's attempt to impose democracy also has no brilliant history to point to. The argument for the invasion of Iraq has contributed to undermining the upsurge of democracy in that region. Nor did the so-called war on terror become an exhibition window for liberal values and the promotion of human rights. Rather, there is reason to believe that democracy, the rule of law and human rights will come to the fore through other social processes — and processes Norway should be involved in supporting and shaping. On the one hand, we see in parts of the world, like the Arab, that authoritarian regimes that are unable to deliver economic development, well-being and work, and that do not give political participation, experience strong pressure on legitimacy and low upswing. The upheavals in Tunisia and Egypt are clear examples where people, especially the many young, rise up against authoritarian leaders, corruption and abuse of power and restricted freedoms. Anxiety and dissatisfaction can continue to spread, with the effect it will have for political stability throughout the region. On our continent, Belarus stands out in a negative direction. Europe's voice must be clear and clear here, and the Belarusians who are fighting for democracy and human rights must feel that they have our support. On the other hand, rapid economic growth could help to force both the rule of law and increased democracy. A diverse market economy, integrated into the open world economy, cannot be micro-managed by one-off political bodies. Legitimate institutions, anchored in a legal State, are essential to ensure the stability and predictability of the market economy. Demands for political participation and influence over their own future will also grow in the wake of the prosperity development that large groups are now experiencing. This means that an international agenda for democracy, the rule of law, human rights and humanitarian law must be kept alive, relevant and clear. Norway shall maintain that human rights are enshrined in universal texts to which the vast majority of countries have acceded. It's going to be a safer world, even for us, if they're actually being observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e500	In accordance with Paragraph 34(a)(b) of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs be referred to a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e514	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e532	In 2008, a ban was introduced on all mercury uses in products, including: mercurymalgam as dental filling material. The justification was clear: «Silver is one of the most dangerous pollutants and poses a threat to the environment and human health.» The ‘Environmental Status.no’ website, directed by several directorates, mentions that mercury compounds can cause chronic toxic effects, even in small concentrations. Mercury may cause kidney damage and motor and mental disturbances due to damage to the central nervous system. Mercury can also cause harm to the unborn child. The National Health Knowledge Centre specifies more specifically in its recent report ‘Silver exposure to dental health professionals’ the following health problems due to mercury exposure: fatigue, loss of appetite, irritability, anxiety, anxiety and depression. These are the early symptoms. Gradually, you get loss of memory, sleep problems and personality changes. It may also develop to include tremor, visual disturbance and neuropathy. Amalgam is an alloy of mercury and one or more other metals and has been used as dental filling material since the early 1900s. In the preparation of amalgam, mercury vapour and mercury particles are released into the air. When the amalgam was used in dental fillings, the dental staff were particularly exposed to this at the dental offices. At first, amalgam was prepared by hand. Gradually you went to the machine mix. The observed highest exposure occurred in the 1960s, but also in the 1970s and 1980s, dental professionals were exposed to mercury. Studies show that dental professionals have a higher concentration of mercury in the body compared to other people. Furthermore, dental assistants have a higher concentration of mercury in the body than dentists. The background to this issue on the agenda was that, among other things, Focus, the editorial work on investigative journalism in the NRK, focused on mercury damage to dental professionals. In 2005, they told the stories to the mercury girls — dental assistants who cooked mercury over open flames without ventilation. They experienced memory failure, tremors, anxiety and depression, etc. We know that nearly 10,000 women worked as dental assistant between 1960 and 1990. In November last year, Focus showed the programme ‘Med NAV in sight’, where we met women who have been found to be injured after working with mercury but who do not receive occupational disease replacement. A comprehensive Norwegian medical profession has investigated and detected mercury damage in dental assistants, but the Lawyers in Nav apparently believe that the professors and superiors are wrong. At least that's how it feels – very strongly – from those who have applied for compensation. There are six professional environments in Norway investigating mercury damage. All these specialist settings have examined former dental assistants and assessed their symptoms against the amount of mercury to which they were exposed. In addition, they have carried out extensive tests to reveal whether the symptoms are compatible with mercury damage. It was the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion that asked the professional community to do these examinations on the dental assistants. Last year’s Focus Programme also shows that it is difficult for users to get in touch with the Nav case handlers. Furthermore, it is said that some users have waited for more than four years for a response, whereas, according to Nav, ordinary proceedings at the professional sickness office are 18 months. In the light of the Focus Programme, Nav set up an internal working group to monitor the treatment of applications for the recognition of occupational diseases by mercury-sponsored dental professionals. They concluded in Nav themselves that there was room for improvement. Too much time is spent collecting information, and they also say that Nav can improve its interaction with users. Help was also requested from the Health Directorate to monitor and assess the medical research status of mercury and dental professionals. So Nav asked the Health Directorate in December 2010 for professional advice on the mercury exposure of dental professionals, and the National Health Knowledge Centre was commissioned by the Health Directorate. They did a illustrious short work, they did it intensively, and they summed up available research in the field. The conclusion reads as follows: ‘For the question of the extent to which dental professionals have been exposed to mercury, the answer is certainly that mercury exposure has occurred and in part at higher doses than the administrative standards recommend.’ It is also noted that in both Norwegian and foreign studies extreme values have been measured which indicate that some have been exposed to a very high degree. Furthermore, the Knowledge Centre believes that it is not possible to ignore the trend that there are several negative health outcomes after mercury exposure. So it was exciting in December 2010 that two dental secretaries won their cases in the Social Security Court. These are the first two in Norwegian dentistry to be compensated for mercury poisoning in the workplace, if this finding persists. What makes these matters extra demanding is that the dental secretary should first be exposed to mercury so that they have suffered health problems, and then, in the next round, have to fight for several years to get compensation. It happens in many ways a double wrong. I have personally met, let's say, relatives and former dental secretaries themselves, and there have been strong encounters with people who are really sick, and who feel that they have never been believed that their disease stems from mercury exposure. It must be a terrible bad feeling to be really sick, going from doctor to doctor, being hospitalized where you never find out what the cause is, and not being believed when you have actually been quite sure. I want to commend the efforts of the Association of Dental Secretarys, a professional organisation in Parat, with the head of Gerd Bang-Johansen, on this matter. The contact I have had with the connection, and also, as I said, with individuals, aroused my commitment to the matter. Of course, I'm very excited if Nav is going to attack these two mercury cases. As I understand it, Nav looks at these issues to assess whether they are working too hard, or whether there is a need for regulatory changes. Head of the Tannhelsekretsen Association, Gerd Bang-Johansen, has expressed a fear that the fight may not be over, because Nav has asked for a political clarification on the fundamental issues raised in the two social security judgments. It can also be very positive, I hope so. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will take on the political responsibility that I believe should support the call, and also do all she can to ensure that not this feeling – or these feelings, two are, of course – is denied. At the same time, we also need to change the guidelines for Nav, along with their practices. As we have this interpellation debate today, I also hope that the Council of State will respond positively to this. It has been very exciting to read the Social Security Court's testimonies, such as: states that the previous rejections are based on an incorrect understanding of the law. This is serious for Nav, and we, as politicians, must take this very seriously. I look forward very much to the Council's response to my interpellation today on what she will do to ensure legal certainty in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e596	It has been demonstrated that work at high levels of mercury can lead to acute and chronic health damage. According to the Swedish Social Security Act, diseases resulting from mercury influence may be recognised as occupational disease if the conditions are met. The criticism from different sources has first of all been that the reasons for the decision in these cases are too weak, inadequate or misleading, then that the treatment takes too long, and that experts have been difficult to come into contact with. Questions have also been asked about the correctness of the medical assessments used by the Working and Welfare Act. Let me first remind you that, after the 2005 agenda was put on the agenda, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure a good and comprehensive follow-up to the individual’s health and legal security. Among other things, a knowledge status was obtained in the summer of 2005 from the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work. Later, two projects have been carried out at St. Olav’s hospital dealing with the relationship between mercury impact and health damage of former dental staff and possible malformations of their children. Letters were also sent to all the country’s decision-makers and ensured a better and more consistent practice among the country’s occupational health centres. In order for a disease to be recognised as a occupational disease according to the rules of the Code of Civil Protection, there must be a causal link between the disease and the harmful effect. The Public Security Act lays down more detailed requirements for the diagnosis of the disease, for its impact and for the occurrence of symptoms. If these requirements are met, the disease is considered to be a professional disease in the sense of the law. The seat of employment and welfare is responsible for providing adequate medical information on the occupational diseases before deciding on the requirement for authorisation. The establishment has employed its own advisory doctors to assist in the proceedings. In addition, agreements have been concluded with cooperating specialists. The main task of the specialists is to help clarify the medical aspects of the case. They shall not determine whether the requirements of the law relating to occupational disease are fulfilled. The State of Labour and Welfare manages public health and determines whether the conditions of the Act for the recognition of occupational disease are met. On this issue, the department is not ‘bound’ by the specialist’s opinion. At the same time, it is essential that the procedure be based on up-to-date medical knowledge, as well as on compliance with the procedural rules laid down in the Administrative Act and the rules of the Law on Social Security. Only then can applicants and the public have confidence in the procedure. The treatment of issues related to mercury-sponsored dental professionals has taken too long. Several in this group have also experienced a lack of predictability and predictability of the etate follow-up. I am therefore pleased that the Director of Labour and Welfare last harvested appointed a working group to review and assess the follow-up of these cases by the establishment. The working group's report was available on 1 February. It shows, among other things: the average duration of proceedings for mercury-related occupational diseases is too long, a whole of 1.9 years. An important explanation is that a lot of time is spent on providing sufficient information to assess whether the conditions of the law have been met. The working group proposes a number of measures to shorten the length of the procedure. One of the measures is to ask the Health Directorate to consider the possibility of concluding agreements with health undertakings, where health undertakings undertake to make specialist declarations in occupational diseases and where they also undertake to carry out investigations and to obtain opinions necessary to provide the medical assessment required by the Working and Welfare Act. This will ensure, on the one hand, access to the necessary expertise, and, on the other hand, support the parallel and non-sequential collection of evidence in the proceedings. You also save a lot of time. Another proposal is to cooperate with operators in the occupational health environment in order to draw up a template for the best way to provide information on a professional disease case, in particular related to the assessment of the extent of injury. This will help to facilitate the work on medical statements and make the procedure more predictable for users. The report also shows that there is a need to continue working to ensure good contact with users, and that users should be well informed and have predictability of the procedure and status in their case. The working group points out that it may be appropriate to consider in the long term whether responsibility for the treatment of occupational diseases should be centralised, but it believes that this should only be assessed once one has seen the effect of the measures that I have now considered. In the current report, the Working Party points out that the Working and Welfare Group has followed a practice that is both in line with the legislation and with the intentions of the legislator. They further indicate that a number of social security courts have supported this assessment over the years. The Director of Labour and Welfare has announced that he will follow up the report’s recommendations as soon as possible. Just before Christmas, the Swedish Social Security Court announced that a former mercury-sponsored dental assistant had his health problems recognised as a professional disease. According to the Working Party, this distinction entails a significant change in established practices in the administration of the law. Therefore, in a letter dated 8 February, the Director of Labour and Welfare asked the Ministry for an assessment of the way in which the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare are to deal with this finding in their future proceedings. The new ruling in the Social Security Court has created uncertainty as to what the legal status actually is in this area, which requires clarification. This is far from a simple matter, and it can have consequences for more groups than just dental staff. I am therefore not prepared to conclude on the matter now, but will provide the Directorate of Labour and Welfare with the necessary clarifications as soon as possible on how to deal with these kinds of issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e628	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Much of the answer goes to the Nav case, and it is nice to put measures there. What surprises me a little bit is the rest of the article to the Council of State, which I'm really very disappointed in, as you say, this takes a very, very long time. What I may also wonder about is what is so wrong with our occupational medicine professionals, professionals who are specialists in mercury exposure, and who have shown in very many of the dental ministers that they have actually suffered health damage from being exposed to mercury exposure. In part, you'll be able to find the same symptoms. So the Council of State is talking about maybe going over to make agreements with the RHFs and competence personnel there. It is possible that this is right, and it is possible that it may have a short period of time – I will not have responded to it – but the Council of State said nothing about whether she actually believed in the occupational medicine, and that the claim of the Social Security Court was thus correct. I am not a lawyer, and this may well be a legally difficult matter. At the same time, the Social Security Court clearly states that this is the wrong application of the law, and then we know that the professionals who are competent have actually said that it comes from mercury exposure. I want to remember Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who took the matter after 2005. It's true that there were some projects. He also took the matter when he was the Council of State, and he gave the impression that we are going to sort this out. He created new guidelines for Nav. He also said that this would now be done on an individual basis – understood, hoped and believed many, that then there would be an order for this, now they would be believed if it could be shown that this had to do with mercury. Then they feel the very opposite, that no one is believed in the Nav system. It's incomprehensible to me. The Social Security Court has done an amazing job. I've struggled through the two senses, and it's clear that the law of it has to be seen, the reality of that I realize that you have to look at, but it must not go winter and spring. I would like to ask the Council of State: does not the Council of State believe in what comes out from professionals? And is it not important and serious that the right to social security refers to improper application of law? Is there so much to talk about?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e639	Let me immediately establish – as I also fixed my post – that there is no doubt that being exposed to mercury can cause health damage. I have no reason to say that I do not believe in those women who say they have health damage. Let's make this very clear. Then I will not stand here and deal with the various matters – I think we agree on that. I also record in the post of the interpellant that the interpellant also agrees that there are some legal assessments here that I also have to include in the totality – just to have said that. I can assure you that I am concerned with legal certainty, both for these dental assistants and for other groups who will promote claims as to whether a professional health claim they have had can be recognised as a professional disease. I spent a lot of time in proceedings, because legal certainty is a lot of proceedings, and proceedings are very much related to results. If you have a good and safe procedure that informs you in a good way, you also have the best chance of getting a good and reasonable result. So the first part of the procedure is absolutely essential in this case, and getting the matter well informed in relation to health is important. What I want to say, as I started with, is that I'm not in doubt that women who have been exposed to this are bad. The question is whether, according to current legislation, there is a sufficient causal link – I don’t want to spend too much time on the law here – between this and what is characteristic of this influence. It's a legal assessment. As the interpellant also says, the right to social security has said that the interpretation has been incorrect in the past. This is one claim from the Social Security Court, where the Social Security Court was set up with three judges, and it is one of those from the medical expert in the case, while one has a long practice that – what I am told – shows something else. That doesn't mean I'm saying that for that reason I'm not going to look at what the Social Security Court has said now, but that means that it would be irresponsible for me as the Council of State not to consider the whole of this – both looking at what previous practices are based on, and looking at what is the background to the legislator's setting that limit earlier. The legislator has also been involved in setting this limit. I believe that in any case, we get a very unfair legal situation if we do not get a clarification on what should be the legal actual situation for this group – not for this group, but for occupational diseases in general in the future. I just think you have to be very clear about distinguishing between existing rights and what should be right. I've said that I'm now looking at both, and it's going to happen quickly. One shall not wait until the time limit for bringing the case before the court of law approaches. I'll be clear on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e654	First, I want to compliment the interpellant on travelling an important matter. So just before Christmas, the Social Security Court for the first time, former dental assistants maintained that long-term mercury exposure is considered to be occupational disease. The Social Security Court has previously drawn the opposite conclusion. Thus, the Social Security Court challenges current practice in labour and welfare management. The Director of Labour and Welfare has therefore asked the Department for an assessment of the way in which the State of Labour and Welfare should deal with this feeling in its future proceedings, i.e. a conflict between law and medicine and even between medical experts – which is thus a policy. I absolutely do not envy the Minister of Labour who is going to clean up the crowds and therefore understand that it can be a rather demanding process, and that it can take some time. However, in any event, there will be consequences for the future treatment of professional damages. Last fall, the NRK focused on the case of dental assistants. In the program Nav and Nav's practice was put in a mildly said little flattening light. I have noticed that Nav later pushed political authorities ahead and claimed that there are laws and regulations that lead to the permanent rejection of the requirements of the dental assistants, but the same laws and regulations do not prevent the right to social security from reaching a different conclusion than Nav. In addition, Nav has a self-responsive responsibility to raise and draw attention to law and regulation that seems unreasonable or hinders fair treatment. But that's not what happened. Nav has, on the contrary, been satisfied with and believes that they have practised the current legislation in line with the Storting assumptions. In other words, the treatment of the Social Security Court creates a new situation. I then assume that the measures previously initiated by Minister of Labour Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in 2005 have helped to improve the evidence of the link between mercury exposure and health damage to dental staff. According to Nav's own duties, the Social Security Court has dealt with 17 cases in which the decision has been favoured by Nav, while the last two judgments, from December, in the opinion of Nav, may change the legal status of the matter. It is beyond doubt that mercury exposure over time can cause health damage and that this can therefore qualify for occupational disease. It also recognizes Nav. But it hasn't been enough. Many of those who have been exposed to mercury exposure, however, are admittedly ill-advised. On this basis, I believe that we should look into the legal and regulatory framework for professional damages, without pre-estimating an embellishment. It is obvious that many, including the Social Security Court, have come to realize that Nav's practice has been too strict in this field. But if we are to change the legislation and thus make it easier to get compensation for occupational diseases, we need to know what we are doing, and what consequences it will have for both the dental assistants who are waiting to promote their claims and for those who have previously been given their cases decided by the Social Security Court. I therefore assume that the Council of State will come back to the Grand Council in an appropriate manner, as it says, if she finds that the law, regulation or current practice in Nav should be amended. Finally, I would like to stress that Nav is more than ever dependent on our trust, just as we depend on a well-functioning labour and welfare seat when the welfare policy is to be translated into practical action. I therefore want an establishment that deals with people's welfare needs with respect and understanding. Unfortunately, I don't think the mercury-damaged dental assistants feel that way today. In addition, I believe that the follow-up to the public inquiry into occupational injury which is now on the government's table must lead to more people, especially women's, having better access to professional harm legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e673	First, thank you to the interpellant. Mercury, or Hydrargyrum, as it is called in Latin, has an exciting story. There is one of two elements that are liquid at room temperature, it actually melts at minus 38 degrees, and evaporation occurs at all temperatures. It's a heavy metal that easily connects to other metals to so-called amalgams. In the past, it was thought that gold could be made from mercury, and it has been used in both herbicide, paint and cleaning. In medical terms, various mercury compounds have been used to treat a number of diseases, such as depression, syphilis, constipation and toothache. It has been used at birth and to treat invulcanised worms and colic in children. Gradually we have come to the realization that mercury is very toxic, and that it is stored in the body's fatty tissue for the rest of your life. It accumulates in living organisms, and the higher it gets in the food chain, the greater the concentrations. There has been reason to take the mercury hazard seriously, and I use the opportunity to point to the submarine outside of Sweden. We know that mercury exposure can lead to severe central nervous system disturbances, and mercury poisoning can, for example, lead to a serious disturbance in the central nervous system. provide both fatigue and insomnia. It can cause lung problems, delirium, hallucinations, memory failure, cancer, chest pain, and suicidal thoughts. Many of these symptoms may be confused with other diseases, and it is not easy to diagnose solely from symptoms. The recognition that mercury has a high adverse health effect has led to a significant reduction and regulation of its use. I want to pay tribute to those who have gone in the rush to allow us in 2008 to introduce a general ban on the use and import of mercury. But I have to say I'm a little bit concerned that the University of Oslo still operates e-learning in mixing and using amalgam with 50 pst. mercury. Even I remember my first meeting with mercury when, as a child, I smashed a thermometer and hunted these metal beads that split up and melted again. Later we met the drug again at the dentist when we got silver in our teeth. It was almost like getting a reward because you had endured this drilling. But those who then mixed this silver were the dental assistants. When the dentist ordered three amalgams, the dentist took the toothpaste to both boil and knee in his mortar and processed it further in his hands, to the dentist then pushed this in place with a small spade. And then we weren't allowed to drink and eat in a couple of hours for the silver to dry. Most of us recognize this situation, and few or no one thought this could be dangerous or harmful to those who were in contact with the drug. Amalgam is a strong material and much cheaper than gold, so that's what was used. What surprises me is how both patients and dentists who experience that they have suffered health damage as a result of mercury exposure are met by our health care and social security services. In addition to having great plagues, they experience being mistrusted and ridiculed, and for some people it has actually gone so far that they have taken their own life. At regular intervals, the issue has been put on the agenda. I remember a pay and Staff program where patients were almost manufactured as psychiatric cases by some physicians. I remember the Focus programs on both the mercury girls and the mercury kids. And who doesn't remember the Focus Programme 'With NAV in sight' that was sent last fall. I know that many people with me resented how public Norway turned out. It must be allowed to ask questions about the kind of focus, role and competence of so-called experts in such a context. We received a comprehensive study from NTNU in the light of dentists’ secretaries, where the then Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, when the first interim report was presented in 2007, stated that everything suggested that the dental secretary could have suffered a professional injury as a result of mercury exposure. But the forces that, after that, have worked to undermine the research work and to turn it all upside down so that the public should discharge liability for professional damage are directly frightening. It was pointed out from a legal point of view that Nav broke both the law and the general administrative law — all in order to avoid admitting that these sick people could be entitled to professional damages. It's a little faithwarming. Fortunately, the Social Security Court turned round, and Nav let himself flat. But I'm putting a big question mark on whether this reverse operation would have taken place if the media press had not been so strong. It brings me to something else that I have brought up with the Minister of Health, and that is the Adverse Reactions Group for Odontological Biomaterials. It is strange that none of the around 1,000 patients treated by the group have found a link between mercury and health problems. Does the group have the right resources – should it be linked to the NTNU environment? I ask the question and really hope that the government will follow up this field, so that both patients and employees will be taken seriously and treated in a way that is worthy of justice for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e696	First, I would like to say a thousand thanks to the representative Davøy for addressing this topic, which is a very important topic. It is, of course, that we, as wholesalers, cannot sit and assess each case in a medical manner. I think everyone agrees on that. We cannot be over-judges when there is disagreement between different parts of the medical environment. To a certain extent, this is also what the Minister of Labour says, that we have to be neat and proper – we have to deal with both jus and politics. But that doesn't mean you have to act as a system defender in any situation. Nor does it mean that legal prowess or legal proceedings must be allowed to overshadow the political core of a case. And here we have a political nucleus that is completely obvious. We have a public system that has subsequently taken self-criticism in several areas and in several fields. We have a group of people who have good medical backing from large parts of the occupational environment because they have suffered damage based on their mercury management. Then, as legislators, we don't have to primarily ask questions about how we can pull the process out anymore, but about what has failed in our systems. I have to say that perhaps one of the most serious things in this case is that it is not the political environment that has pulled the case up and carried it on. It's not Nav himself who's been open to self-criticism, open to recording, open to perhaps it might have been wrong. No, they are the ones who have been hit, who have run the case, and their allies have been media. It's pretty serious when it's like this in a democratic society that there's the media that has to deal with issues and put them on the political agenda, just because the individuals or groups don't get into the system. That's why there's every reason in this case not only to look at the legal, but also to look at how we manage the systems we're set to manage, how the state council manages the systems she's set to manage, and how the systems themselves deal with critics and people who perceive themselves to be unfairly treated. So here is a group of people who, over the years, have had to run their case, and who have not met with understanding, have not met a system that says that they may have made mistakes here, rather it seems to the contrary that they have met closed doors, internal professional prestige, experts from one team and the other, who are used not to help them in their case, but primarily to push them down. It's serious! It is NRK Focus that really gets the matter back on the political agenda, after the first programme in 2005. That's why I'm disappointed with the Council of State's response, not because I expect her to stand here and almost diagnose people or review the legal processes, but because the Council of State must also recognise the political core of this matter, namely that everything indicates that here we are dealing with a system that is too closed, too little open to criticism, and where one ultimately – after almost being dragged after the hair – even has to admit that one has also made mistakes. And then it's clearly a legal question whether the Social Security Court is entitled to the fact that the application of law and the understanding of the law have been incorrect. But the political matter doesn't get any less clear for that reason. Therefore, I wish it was the councillor and politician Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm who had come up on the platform today – not just the lawyer Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm. In this case, I believe there is reason to ask questions not only in Nav's proceedings, but in the whole process considering how Nav handles criticism, how they handle recording, and how they handle possible errors. However, there is also a need for a review of the conditions for obtaining replacement, both in relation to what is perceived as a characteristic disease image and what is required of exposure. Finally, I would like to add that I hope that Nav does not anchor the matters that are now in the legal system, and where the Social Security Court has given consideration to two former dental secretaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e713	Thanks to the interpellant! Mercury is very dangerous. It's at least I've never been in doubt about in my whole life, and it's starting to get pretty far. I've also been a politician for quite a long time and have experienced that patients and dental professionals for very many years have had to fight the awareness and medical knowledge that this is actually not good. Now we're looking at the dental treatment, where amalgam is gone. And then maybe we can face some problems related to other materials, because there's little that's completely harmless. But I have to say that I have been following this process for several years and have seen how it has been a strict resistance to accepting that there have been medical consequences of the use of e.g. amalgam. We experience in many cases that there are conflicting medical conclusions in different cases, but in this area I have to say that I have experienced that there has almost been a wall. That is why I was very happy when, in the previous period, we got the matter up again, when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen got hold of it. I also realized that we took some steps to see these matters in a different light. There are seaworthy assessments to be made, which the administration is required to make on the basis of the law in place there. In time, a practice develops on the basis of such a law, which in turn becomes an interpretation that may, over time, differ from what has been the political basis of the law. I think you have to assume that it happens, not only in this area, but also in other areas. There may be a need for corrections. Now there has been a searchlight on the matter again. I agree to the post that my associate Steinar Gullvåg had in the matter, and to his views on it. The fact is, it has been discovered that there is a practice that can raise questions; there is also an administration that says that they have a view of the law that does not support the law. That means we have to clarify this. This means that there are different ways of interpreting this law, but it is therefore possible to interpret what the Social Security Court has done. I have a great deal of understanding that it is necessary to go through these matters concretely, but I also have a hope that these matters will not be appealed to. I choose to say it here, because I mean it. It is also right, as Mr Gullvåg points out, that we need to go through the entire system of occupational injury. It's old-fashioned in many ways, and as far as some of the other conditions are concerned, you'll find that you get new medical knowledge that allows you to see some correlations between another type of strain in a profession and a medical injury or illness you're experiencing in retrospect. Typically, it has been in the typical women’s prisons that it has not been recognised as a professional disease. Many women have had occupations similar to those they have had at home, in which they can also wear themselves out – to put it this way. I'm glad the Council of State is going to go into this. I understand that it is not possible to conclude today on what changes these rulings will entail, but I am not in doubt that we need to take a political step into this and clarify the legal situation. Nor am I in doubt that the practice we have seen so far that Nav has had will not be as the Storting wants the legal status to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e728	I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking up a very correct and a very long-lasting fight that dental staff who believe they have suffered from amalgam poisoning has led. It's a fight that many people have worked a lot with, and that has sometimes been marked by hopelessness for those who are sick. We fully agree that it is an important battle, and it is admirable of those who have taken the battle. The documented effect of long-term work on amalgam is indisputable and has led to harm and severe health reductions being bad. We probably didn't know it was so dangerous the time they worked on it, and that's probably the main reason why there are many people who have trouble. I guess we all saw Focus. I have had many meetings with different groups on the matter. I have also visited dental secretary who has a bad everyday life and who has a disability pension. They might want an acceptance for what they've been through. There are countless shelf meters and stories of fate, and what I hear touches me very much at least. As mentioned above, this is not entirely acceptable as a professional injury. I think we should also be able to say something about that politically. I have a great deal of understanding of the need you have to accept that you have been sick by the job you have done – a job that you have also been proud to have done. And they've done an important job. This government has taken several steps to clean up — through bans, which are mentioned here, through projects and different knowledge acquisitions. Nevertheless, the waiting time before a person gets a clarification, as the Council of State says, is too long. That's not good enough. I think many of the workgroup's actions, to which the Council of State refers, are very good. I expect that they will be followed up well. It is important to follow this matter carefully, because it is women who have fought for a long time to be accepted for their plagues. They deserve to have their case tried, both in relation to health problems and in relation to social security. They actually deserve to have their case closed. The decision of the Social Security Court before Christmas gave many a new hope, and therefore it is important to get clarification for the others who remain, if all the criteria are on the ground and can be recognised as a professional injury, which I also hear from the Council of State saying is an important criterion. Good knowledge, clarifications and rapid treatment are one of the most important things we can expect now. I also want to mention that this is mostly just about women. They're the ones who've been on. They've been out of work for years now, and they deserve a diagnosis and an acceptance. I hope that the clarification, to which the Council of State also refers, on how we will deal with such matters in the future after the rulings of the Social Security Court, happens quickly, and that we don't have to wait very long now, because it doesn't deserve those who are waiting. They deserve a complete and fair treatment. I also support those who hope that this matter will not be appealed to, both in respect of the job that all the girls have done, and in respect of the great and political commitment that this matter has got over very, very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e746	A great thank you to the interpellant that this serious and rental case has come up on the agenda here in Stortinget. It is clear that the presentation of this case at the NRK Focus was an embarrassing affair for Nav. The question I put to you again was: is this supposed to be the quality of Nav and the treatment of professional damages? It's not least strange that other people who also become a Nav case lose all confidence in the system. We cannot acknowledge this, which I also hope the minister can agree on. Those dental staff that we're talking about have been very ill treated from day one. It is unworthy, and one thing could be a good thing in front of us in our country. Now a few things have to be done – first of all, they have to have the treatment they are entitled to and the compensation they are entitled to. It is also necessary to ensure that procedures and procedures are in place for all those covered by the category of occupational diseases. Obviously, here's a big defect, which this case shows. In this case, the interpellant addresses questions both about the review of the results and conclusions of occupational health experts from several countries and about an extremely long period of procedure. The fact that Nav wants a report on this matter, tells me that one might have been on a rolling basis in his rejections. The report only confirms that the mercury - resistant dental secretary was exposed to caused a disease. You may not come to a clearer conclusion. The report also says that the procedure has been far too long and that cooperation between occupational physicians and Nav needs to be improved. Nevertheless, the report is on the phone. At the same time, one has to ask questions by saying that one is still inexorably talking about hearings. Now, when Nav has come up with an admission that is most likely to go a long way, it's probably just to end and conclude, and not least to spend time on powerful changes in the way one treats people in such matters. I've previously taken up with the minister the question that Nav's body tests specialists. The answer from the Council of State is that if one of the specialists thinks that they are being tried out, this would often cause the department to consider that the medical statements are often defective then and/or that they may have broken conclusions. This is quite unlikely. It is certainly not a matter that has such a great pile of far from deficient information or brittle conclusions as this one. Nevertheless, what happened in this case, they were overexamined by the League of Navs. At the same time, it is also clarified from the consultative forum of the Working and Welfare Assembly that these non-consultants have an advisory function, and no decision-making right. But here again, it seems that the exact opposite has been present. I now expect this matter to give the Minister specific guidelines for Nav, so that they can treat people who come up in such situations in a creative way from the start. At the same time, it would have been good if the Council of States could now really confirm that one is sure that Nav will change the practice in such cases, that they will also meet people behind the various cases and not treat them. As a fellow human being, I have great awareness of these debts, those that have been through this process. Nevertheless, I would like to use the opportunity to thank them for being able to stand up. There are great women who had ignited something quite different than a great fight against Nav for their legitimate professional damages after a former dangerous work in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e761	I am really very grateful for the commitment that everyone has shown in the matter, and I am lifted by this discussion. It's us here in Stortinget, as legislators, who are actually standing here and talking about this is a group that doesn't fully fit the law as to what we want to do and what we want to do. The council said that there might be other groups that could also be compensated if these judgments were in place. Yes, it may – as we can see – but it should not, of course, prevent the rights of dental secretaries from being implemented. The council also said that according to today's legislation, Nav considers that the causal link – I would say with my words – is not to the benefit of the dental secretary. It also means that we need clarification, and we need clarification both politically and legally. The political assessment may end with a change of legislation. In fact, we have two judges from the Social Security Court who say that the application of the law is wrong. They also say a lot of other things. But what may be one of the most important things is that if, as politicians, we believe that the dental secretary, who is a relatively large female-dominated profession, is to be able to get compensation, we can change the legislation politically. I think many articles here today have gone in the direction that we want that politically. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen wanted it. He clearly said that was what he wanted. Therefore he changed the legislation – probably not well enough. At least Nav says they haven't got a code that makes them want to change this. No one has doubted that occupational medicine has shown the relationship between exposure and disease. It is important – nor is it the Council of State. But it's the code that collides. So again, I hope that Nav doesn't go to appeal. But I challenge the Council of State, because the Council of State can go back and sort things out in the system. She can make new legislation. She can even come to Stortinget to change the law if it is wrong in relation to the law. I mean, after so many people have spoken here from different parties, that we want this to happen to the dental secretary. Don't use the time to go too far into the juxtaposition, either change it so that we get it, that we get it done, and that they get compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e774	I want to start by thanking the interpellant, but not for putting this matter on the agenda, because I want to stress that this matter is on my agenda all the time, and that it is very important to me. The policy in this case is that there has been too little procedure in these cases. There are many reasons for this, but I am the first to sign that this case – and these cases in general – has been too poorly treated. That's exactly why I've gone through what we're about to do to make it better. The law in this, representative Røe Isaksen, is that it is my condemned duty as the Council of State to deal with the legislation that the Stortinget has given and that a long case-law has followed. I have to deal with that. That's why I have to ask for time to be able to relate to this properly. What is the situation, is that there are two things we had before Christmas, and in one there was no doubt. One woman contracted occupational disease. That was okay, because then you were within the list that the law provides, and that practice has confirmed. The second is the challenge, because then you're either outside or inside. That's the question. The same applies to solvent damage. There are also those who fall outside the criteria set by legislation and practice, and some who do not fall outside. I just say here that I have to look at the whole before I conclude on this matter. What do I do with the legislation we have – I can spend time on the story behind it – before I conclude on that matter? A possible point in that conclusion could have been that we filed the case before the law to get it tested there. I'll go quite far in saying that it doesn't seem to me to do. But I have to stress, because I'm just taking my legal role as a state council very seriously, that that doesn't mean that I've now said that we're remaking practice. I need an assessment of that. But the woman who has fought that fight and got there in the Social Security Court is not going to meet the State of Borgarting Lawyers' Rights. It's clear on my side. But then I also reserve the right, as I am also obliged to, to make an assessment of the totality of the legislation before I come back in an appropriate way with how to deal with these matters further. I want to say that in my progressive youth there was no difference between law and politics. We actually thought that the jute was very political, and I will continue to believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e787	The Council of State is called upon to address the President and not the representatives directly. Case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e803	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e812	This matter was assigned to the Committee on 7 June last year, so the Committee has actually worked on it for seven months, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee. It was expressed great goodwill from both sides to find solutions, and we waited a long time for alerted new signals from the government. Before the summer of last year there were a number of headlines in the newspapers, and several of the party groupings met with relatives and patients. This resulted, inter alia, in: in that the government established an exclamation unit, the Right and the Christian People's Party promoted this proposal for a Disaster Commission, and the Progress Party drew up a proposal on patients and their relatives' rights in the event of so-called adverse events. I would like to ask questions about the way it works, because it was quickly locked positions, and I really feel that the government parties are present in an annotated form, but that they will not go as far as to support a proposal or discuss a reunited proposal. History has well shown that it is in the break between political positions that one finds the good and lasting political solutions. As far as the background is concerned, in the health system, internal control was imposed in 1994 and a national strategy for quality development in healthcare was put in place by the establishment of internal control systems from the year 2000. This led to the development of a number of procedures at our institutions, but there has been little control over the implementation of the procedures, i.e. whether employees have entered into the procedures and followed them. Monitoring may be based on a lack of procedures and supervision may also be noted when procedures are not followed, but there are negligible consequences and learning outcomes have been poor. A 2003 study showed that so-called adverse health incidents could lead to 2,000 deaths and 15 000 permanent injuries to patients here every year. It equals over 5 dead and 40 injured every day throughout the year. If this had happened in traffic, it would have been taken immediate action. In addition, those patients who get transient narcolepsy. If you look at the consequences and extra stress patients and relatives face as a result, and the burden also on health professionals involved, the impact on the use of resources in the healthcare system and the reputation of the healthcare system in general, we face a formidable challenge. TV 2 showed us yesterday's calculations that such events cost society $1.75 billion. kr per year. I am convinced that this number should be far, far higher, because it is a great degree of under-reporting and great darkness. Unfortunately, not much has happened in the first few years after this report was presented and commented on by Professor Peter Hjort. But in the last few years, there have again been searchlights on and revealed several unfortunate events, including fatal outcomes. This indicates a recurrent system failure that one must take seriously. The government, as mentioned above, took the initiative to establish a two-year pilot scheme with its own call-out unit in the State Health Authority, which was commissioned from 1 June last year to move out when serious incidents occurred in the specialist health service. The proposers point out that the model established by the government for the health sector is completely different from the one established in 2008 for the transport sector. The opposition parties would also like to see an equivalent accident commission, by model from the transport sector, tested in the health care sector in parallel with the call-out unit established by the government, and a good follow-up research, so that the Storting can ensure the best possible basis for which model it is best to proceed with. It is also proposed that health professionals should be established in the police, so that they can investigate health matters much more on an independent basis. It is a paradox that if a person is subjected to blind violence and dies right outside the hospital doors, the police investigate and take out charges. Should a patient be exposed to a so-called unfortunate incident as a result of slurry or gross negligence, or as a result of the failure of poorly maintained technical equipment within the hospital walls, the police have the same opportunity to investigate, but they do not. I want to take an example of an older lady in Ålesund who fell out of bed because there was a failure in the locking mechanism on the bedhorse. The place was quickly cleaned and cleaned, and the bed and bedhorse was removed. A few days later it was observed that the hospital in the quiet wrecked several beds and bedridden horses. My question is whether there must be accidents and deaths, or whether we can expect some kind of pro-activity. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen many unfortunate events in the health system. Several of us participated in a gripping marking outside the Storting yesterday. It is natural for health services, as elsewhere, to make mistakes. Intervention and treatment are at risk, and health services are particularly vulnerable as the consequences of errors are often high. It is therefore necessary to learn from their faults in the health care system, and in this area there is currently too little good practice. It is also confirmed by the State Health Authority, and Director Lars E. Hanssen talks about an unculture and a unwillingness to learn from mistakes. This is serious, and it is a management problem that needs to be taken seriously. In the past year, I have had several meetings with families who have lost their loved ones after accidents in the health care system, and I have met with parents who have brought in a virtually healthy young person for a simple procedure and have had a severely damaged child because of the lack of oxygen supply during the operation. These meetings have made a strong and lasting impression on me. Many of these relatives are left behind with a feeling that they are not taken seriously enough. The father of the brain-damaged boy cried and thanked us for the meeting and said that we were the first authorities to want to meet and see the boy during the three or four years they had fought to find out the truth about what went wrong during the operation. Accidents resulting in serious injury and possibly death are under-explored by agencies other than the hospital or the health services themselves. This has many reasons. In part, the lack of procedures in the healthcare system is due to treating such situations as crime. In part, the lack of political relevance is due to the fact that the police rarely investigate such cases without seeking advice from the Health Inspectorate, which often takes a long time. In sum, this gives us a situation that we cannot be familiar with, and therefore, in our opinion, a testing scheme with a health sector accident commission based on the model of the transport sector is the right way to go. An independent body competent to identify causes or adverse events will be an essential measure to prevent similar events from occurring again. The Disaster Commission for Transport defines such causalities without the possibility of sanctions and without the proposers. With a corresponding health emergency commission, the Sanctions Authority will continue to be with the Health Authority and the police. It is therefore indescribably important to strengthen the investigation competence of the police in such cases. This can be organised in many different ways, but it is important that it becomes a unit with special competence for such matters. A natural starting point for this is, in the opinion of the Advance Party, to look at the organisation of Ecocrim. It is important that health services improve in preventing adverse events. There are many interventions that can be done in this way, and one of them is significantly tightening up procedures for misreporting and handling complaints, as well as allowing patients and relatives to report what they consider to be anomalies in the hospital’s internal system. In this way, healthcare will be given a better overview of the situation, and in turn, it will provide more opportunities to learn from their own mistakes and those of others. In addition, this will help to ensure the legal certainty of patients and their relatives. It is indescribably important that the interests of patients and their relatives be strengthened in the event of unfortunate events. I feel that the government parties are also more concerned with the systems in this case than with individuals. The Progress Party proposes that patients and relatives receive good information in the event of an accident. The consequences, the means of complaint and redress shall be disclosed and all shall be recorded. We have got the Right and Christian People's Party on this, but it is directly frightening that the government parties will vote against the proposal. You can, of course, once again point out that a working group has been set up, that there will be a proposition, etc., as they often do; and then they expect us to settle down and think that 'there is hope in hanging strings'. But now it starts to become as many snares as this government has hanging out, that everyone who has a little bit of a bearing on fishing, understands that this is just going to be a vase and no fish. In the event of accidental events leading to death, the Progress Party considers that it is essential that the relatives are granted party rights so that they are sufficiently transparent and informed after such an event. Too many relatives are fighting the system to know the truth about the loss of their closest ones is the toughest fight. It's totally unsustainable, not to say unacceptable. The Progress Party will strengthen the right of relatives to follow such cases by granting these relatives the right to assist lawyer in serious cases. Everyone will benefit from better care for the relatives, and the health care system will also be able to learn and thus profit from it. So a few words about the reporting system that the government is proposing to change, which we're going to take a lot of distance from the opposition. We believe that the messages – the so-called § 3-3 messages – still have to go to the Health Authority. At that time, the Health Inspectorate can first follow up the quality work being done in the establishments in a satisfactory manner. We need to get a system that enables us to trust our health care system. We need to ensure that employees are given the opportunity to do their work in a professionally sound manner, and we need to make sure that the health care system is a learning business that learns from errors. We have to make sure that patients and relatives are involved and taken seriously. With that, I would like to address the proposals to which the Progress Party is or has promoted itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e858	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e861	The basic elements of all patient treatment are safety, maritime — safety that we receive the right treatment in a timely manner, and safety that unnecessary damage/malfunctions of treatment do not occur. I've met more people who haven't experienced the security most of us take for granted. Some have also experienced fatal consequences either because they have been late for treatment, or because errors or damage have occurred during treatment, and last but not least, did not experience proper care when damage has first occurred. Yesterday we were in Eidsvoll's place. It was filled with light in memory of those who have lost their lives as a result of something going seriously wrong. It made a strong impression again to meet and hear the relatives. Patient safety is a very important topic. I am pleased with every opportunity to put good patient care on the agenda. Therefore, it is also very positive that the Council of State has now announced its own notification of patient safety and quality. It will raise the topic further and give us a good opportunity to see things in context. Norwegian hospitals have done a lot of good to reduce adverse events. Nevertheless, we – and we must – can get better. The zero vision has to be what we're going to go after. At the same time, there will always be risks associated with all forms of human behaviour, including hospital treatment, seafaring. Therefore, patient safety needs to be put in the high-seat, and we need to take full and systematic action. The proposal by the representatives of Höie, Sjøli and Davøy raises important issues related to the work on increased patient safety. The proposal also shows how complex this is. A process of increased patient safety requires multi-step intervention. It does not help with rapid intervention if the problem is a lack of warning. It also does not help with rapid intervention if stakeholders are not consulted in this process, so that the reaction and learning thus become defective. Jon Hunter Gåsvatn started fishing. Then I would say: We have done something about the mesh size, and several errors have been discovered. I am pleased with the series of measures taken and planned by the government. Patient safety is a leading factor in both health and care law and in a new health and care plan, which will eventually come to the Stortinget in its final form after consultation. This involves strengthening and increasing the focus on patient safety, participation and quality work. We already see results, as I said, but we want further experience and do not support the proposal for a disaster commission. The first and most important step towards increasing patient safety is the fact that adverse events are reported. There are still too many environments in the health sector that are not good enough to report errors. An important reason for this may be the fear of reprisals and sanctions against close colleagues. In order to remedy this situation, the government has introduced a new warning obligation and a new notification system, which is exempted from sanctions and supervisory authorities. The threshold for reporting is thus lower, and it is very important to have an open and safe reporting culture. The second decisive step is to act quickly when adverse events first occur. I think that the proposal for a disaster commission might be a little nuanced. Many so-called adverse events in hospitals are of such a nature that they are not legally serious enough to be reported to the Health Inspectorate, but that does not mean that those involved in the event do not experience it as serious. How each hospital reacts and learns from such events is therefore crucial. Some hospitals have good systems for this, such as: Akershu University Hospital, where a separate quality team provides both alerts, conversations with affected patients and relatives and assessment of further treatment. This call-out group of the Health Inspectorate, which was established on 1 June last year, is an important step towards rapid intervention in the serious incidents. In addition to quickly entering and analysing the course of events and assessing further measures, it is particularly important to stress that the call-out group should listen specifically to patients and relatives. As one mother once said to me, when the doctor told me that something had gone terribly wrong during the operation, it was like a lightning strike. But the time after, when we're left with a thousand questions and no one wants to talk to us, is like an eternal solar eclipse. We owe everyone who has experienced this, and those who have gone away, that we learn from mistakes. Finally, I would like to say that the patient safety work is fortunately, also politically, marked by a great deal of agreement that we need to get better, if we look a little different at just this matter we have here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e887	I would like to start by thanking the House of Representatives who really have the credit for the fact that this proposal is being discussed in Stortinget today. It's probably almost a year since the first time that the representative Laila Davøy and I had a meeting with the Lie family where they launched the idea of a health care accident commission. I want to be honest and say that my first reaction as it was in many ways what is the position of the government parties today, namely that I thought: will there be another level necessary to investigate what has happened in health care? Doesn't it keep with the Health Authority? But the meeting irritated my curiosity. I discovered very quickly when I went into the discussion and did investigations, that there were not at least a lot of people in the healthcare system who had worked on this idea for many years without getting a pass. But it was only when the relatives started their work and got attention to this that they were able to move the political environment. At least that led to us sitting down and working on this proposal. The situation today is that too many people die and are injured in the health care system. The situation is also that relatives experience not being heard. Many people have to live with the uncertainty of what has happened. It's quite right, as the representative Hagebakken says, that it's important to learn from mistakes, but it's a stage before that. The first is to admit that it has gone wrong. But the next stage is actually to figure out what went wrong. Before you have admitted that something has gone wrong and found out what has gone wrong, it is not possible to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Health Authority and the Health Director point out that there is some form of unculture, as he calls it, in the health care system, that one does not learn from his own faults. But also today's system, and that is the system that the government parties are using today to continue and not supplement, privatises far too much responsibility for the safety of the health services of individual health professionals, and does not see to a sufficient degree that people working in health services are not superhuman. They're people like all of us, and people do wrong. Therefore, it is essential to focus on what it is in the system that does not prevent human error from having such major, serious consequences. This is the methodologically different approach to safety work, which is not an alternative to the State Health Authority, but a necessary complement to the State Health Authority, which is at the heart of this proposal, namely to establish a tool for so-called root cause analysis, which would be a breakdown commission. I cannot, with my best will, understand why it is so terribly difficult for the Minister of Health to accept that it is a good idea to try out this method in parallel with the method of faster State health surveillance, which in reality represents the call-out group, so that when one is going to evaluate that system in two years' time, one could actually evaluate another system at the same time. Thus, Stortinget had a significantly better decision-making basis to assess what should be the overall solution. I'm very afraid that if we don't manage to move the political majority before two years, the result will be that one in two years' time has not come much further than that one is today, and then one is going to try out a system of breakdown commission before a draws a conclusion. Thus, very, very many people will die or be harmed in the health care system unnecessarily, because the political system does not work fast enough. This is a model that is well known from the transport sector, where one has an air traffic control unit, where one has a car surveillance unit with the police in place, but at the same time has a accident commission. And there are considerably more people who die or get injured in our health system than there are people who die or get injured in traffic. The same applies to the competence of the police. Why have we built up competences on economic crime and environmental crime in the police, but are we not willing to build up competences in relation to cooperation with health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e900	The proposal to set up a State Emergency Commission for Health, which is being discussed today, has its background, as the representative Höie initially said, in an incredibly strong commitment from a group of relatives who have experienced the tragic loss of one of their very closest, child, spouse, inexplicable in hospital – deaths that normally should not have happened. I have also met these relatives and heard their stories. It's made a very strong impression. It has made sense to hear their stories about how they have experienced the situation in the hospital, the despair of not being heard, the feeling that you are not a party to the case, and that it has taken a very long time after the death has occurred, until the case has been dealt with by the Health Authority. It has also made a strong impression to experience the strong commitment this group has shown to correct the mistakes they have experienced, so that others do not experience the same. It's made a strong impression, and that commitment they're going to have all the respect and respect for. So it's at the same time enjoyable to be able to see, and it's almost a year since we've met them, that their commitment has given results. More than six months ago, the Minister of Health took the initiative to set up a call-out unit. It shall expedite rapidly in the event of serious incidents, and the task and mandate of the recovery team is very similar to that which a disaster commission would have. The report from the team's work is that experience is good, not least in relation to relatives. The focus has been on patient safety. The Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’ started on 27 January, with the aim of reducing the number of injuries to patients. This campaign has received clear support from, among others: Health surveillance. A high-speed sample has been appointed to assess the position of those concerned in supervisory matters, just as the focus has been placed on them. That report shall be available on 15 April. A new Health and Care Act will be submitted proposing that all specialist healthcare and community health care establishments carry out systematic work on patient safety. Patient safety will be at the heart of our consideration of the National Health Plan for Spring, and, finally, a separate Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard will be presented, where this theme is widely addressed, and how transparency, information, quality measurement and not least the focus on learning from mistakes will be central. I am not initially against the creation of a breakdown commission as proposed, but I believe that it is wrong to do so now. An exclamation unit has been established, for the same purpose as a breakdown commission. There shall be a testing scheme in which experience shall be evaluated in two years' time. In my opinion, setting up a disaster commission in parallel will have limited value. It will also address role-definition problems against both health surveillance and the police, so having all three of these agencies running at the same time, we think it would be wrong. Therefore, as the majority of the Committee recommends, the best solution will be first to gain experience with the exclusion unit as planned. Then the Storting will decide whether it is natural to continue that scheme into a disaster commission once you have evaluated it. That's the right way to do it, and that's also SV's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e917	There has been a great deal of focus lately on unfortunate events with fatal outcomes that have occurred in Norwegian hospitals. The stories have made an impression. If most patients experience good and safe treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system, many errors occur. And when mistakes occur, there are several examples of health services not responding with transparency and not having good enough systems to ensure learning and improvement. The position of patients and their relatives in supervisory matters seems to be too weak. Health surveillance has been criticised for lack of and late investigation, and the police have been criticized for lack of health professional competence to investigate serious accidents in the health sector. A group of relatives who have experienced losing one of their closest after hospital failure have done an important job of improving patient safety by telling their stories. The relatives who have shown public warning of the system errors have helped to ensure that the work on patient safety, the management of adverse events by hospitals and the role of the Health Authority have been given a high political focus. Several measures have already been taken by the government to improve the detection of system deficiencies and system failures and to ensure better procedures. A test scheme with a call-out group in the Health Authority is in place. The administration of the notification scheme under the Special Health Service Act § 3-3 has been proposed to move from the National Health Authority to the National Knowledge Centre for Health. At business meetings, regional health undertakings are subject to an alert obligation directly to the health authorities of the State. The criticism of the Health Inspectorate’s caregiver’s caregiver’s caregiver in relation to the dependants has been followed. The Government has appointed a rapid selection to assess the position of patients and their relatives in supervisory matters. A key objective of the national health and care plan will be to strengthen the quality of healthcare and to improve patient safety. In 2011, a national patient safety campaign was launched. Yesterday, the news that the government will promote Norway’s first high-level report on quality and patient safety in healthcare was made public. There has been a major cross-political focus in the Health and Welfare Committee on patient safety. The opposition has promoted various proposals for improved patient safety, thus contributing to the policy focus in this area. I think that's positive, and I think it's good that the opposition has had so much involvement in this area. Today, the Storting Board will decide on a proposal from the opposition to set up a health sector disaster commission. First of all, I would like to stress that we think there are many good arguments for creating such a breakdown commission. We fully share the intention behind the proposal. However, there have also been arguments in the hearings on the matter that it is not essential to set up a disaster commission at this stage. Among other things, the Norwegian Medical Association has warned in its consultation response against establishing new systems in addition to those established before more knowledge of current practice is available and the testing scheme with the caller unit has been evaluated. The government has stated, in an annotated form, that we will return to the need for a disaster commission once we have evaluated the recovery unit and gained experience from this testing scheme. It is natural for a disaster commission to be assessed in the context of a large-scale reporting on patient safety. Government parties consider it very important to ensure access to medical expertise in the police so that serious incidents and death in the healthcare system are investigated more often and better. The opposition suggests that this competence should be built up within the police's own offices. The Ministry of Justice and Police believes that it is most appropriate for the police to draw the best available expertise from other disciplines rather than to develop the corresponding competences of the police. We support the views of the Ministry of Justice and the Police on this. We believe that the increased requirements for improved patient safety, as mentioned above, will in themselves lead to police being notified more frequently and in the past. Patient safety work is primarily a management responsibility, on which health business boards must keep their focus. Sickness about health services differs from other sectors through significant legislation aimed at health professionals, such as workers and professionals, and has a specific supervisory system in the counties and centrally through the State Health Authority, we will not fail to ensure culture for learning and prevention of adverse events, good communication with patients and relatives when accidents occur is a systemic responsibility. Many new initiatives have been taken to strengthen this field in the last year, and I look forward to further focusing on this area when work is started on a separate Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e940	I would also like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for our standing here today and for the enormous work they have done. We cannot be aware that there is an unculture in Health-Norway – an unculture because unfortunate events are not reported or investigated. A national review of system problems is needed. This is not primarily about what individuals have done, but about system failures and inability to learn from errors. It is also largely a management problem. We need to have a culture in healthcare that is open and learning. Several have indicated that the director of the State Health Agency said last summer that the hospitals are not learning from their own faults or from others, and that health companies do not know where the weaknesses are. He further elaborated that hospitals are not learning organisations using supervisory reports, their own experiences and records of accidents and almost accidental accidents to improve quality. Furthermore, he said that management does not take clear enough responsibility for the soundness of the treatment and that health care companies lack management systems and internal control. And last, that management doesn't know what quality the service has, and where the weaknesses lie. If these factors were in place, we might not have needed a breakdown commission. I'll go so far as to say it looks like a system crisis. Norway was at the bottom of a newly conducted population survey on patient safety. As long as too many unnatural deaths occur in Norwegian hospitals, we cannot say that we have among the world's best health services. The size of health budgets does not say anything about the quality of services either. There is a cross-political agreement to have a public health service where everyone is guaranteed equivalent and good health care. Such service depends entirely on trust. Several times I have had strong encounters with relatives who have experienced the loss of one of their loved ones, often quite unnecessary. This type of experience breaks down trust. Patient safety is becoming increasingly important since we are treating more and more patients, and treatment is also becoming more and more advanced due to medical and technological developments. The Christian People's Party believes that a testing scheme should and must be established with a health sector accident commission based on the model of the transport sector. That is what we are debating today. Today's systems aren't good enough to clean up. It may not be the healthcare that should consider itself, as it now looks. External reviews and analyses of unnatural deaths and unfortunate events are needed. Among other things, it is positive that, in the recent consultation opinion, the Health Inspectorate has actually also raised the issue of compulsory investigation into all cases where children under the age of 18 die unexpectedly — even when death occurs in connection with the provision of health care. But this is not enough. It should apply to all, regardless of age. The Christian People's Party will also develop special expertise in the police in investigating matters in the health sector. We believe it is important to ensure the independence of the police. Despite the fact that the police can acquire expert expertise elsewhere, there may be conflicts of loyalty – and we know that the medical environment in Norway is not large. The Christian People's Party would like patients and their relatives to be well informed about adverse events, that consequences and possibilities of complaint and redress are highlighted, and that this should be properly reported. Traditionally, hospitals have been closed and hierarchically managed organisations, where patients have been passive recipients of services. It's not just like that anymore. In recent years, the right to treatment and to user involvement has become increasingly new. It's positive. Still, we're not in port. Information on adverse events is likely to strengthen the trust of patients and their relatives in healthcare — yes, I am absolutely sure of it. I must also say that I am surprised that the government parties and the government council will not agree to a trial plan with a disaster commission. It's incomprehensible, after all, when you've started a different test scheme. These two test procedures could go completely parallel, so that we don't lose time. Because I definitely think we're going to get a breakdown commission later. It is possible – and it has been said – that the Medical Association is against it, but we also know that within our doctors there are shared opinions on this. And a lot of people would want this to work out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e963	The representatives Sjøli, Höie and Bavøy address serious issues in the proposal to set up a separate health sector accident commission. We hear in the speeches here today that we all want to improve patient safety, and all the measures that I myself have taken and will take will contribute to this. Last year, a number of examples of serious adverse events with fatal outcomes emerged. The government’s health surveillance received criticism of late and insufficient response and lack of involvement of relatives in the oversight work. Such a situation was unacceptable. In the light of the criticism, and following strong discussions with relatives, I established a call-out group in the State Health Authority from 1 June 2010. At the same time, health businesses were subject to immediate warning obligations in the event of serious incidents, so that the call-out group could quickly move out to obtain relevant information from healthcare professionals, patients and relatives – this is precisely because it was the fastest change I could make in the practice that was established, where a two-month deadline had previously been observed. When adverse events occur, several purposes shall be taken into account. The incident shall be investigated with a view to clarifying causes and responsibilities. Patients and relatives shall be taken care of and heard. Police shall be involved when circumstances so warrant. The event shall be used for learning to avoid the like in the future. And finally, if the results provide a basis for response to activities or health professionals. The work of the printing team and the follow-up of the Health Authority take account of all these objectives. I have also set up a sample to assess the role of patients and relatives in supervisory matters. The sample shall provide the report before Easter. The State Health Authority has reported that there is positive experience with the call-out group — not least the changed practice of involving relatives in calls. But this group is just one of several interventions in patient safety. The Regional Health Companies Mission Document stresses that it is a managerial responsibility to have good systems for reporting and responding to adverse events. Employees shall experience that reporting is safe and that events are used for learning and improvement for the whole of their business. I have proposed moving messages of significant personal injury, and near injury, from the Health Service to the Knowledge Centre. The aim of the proposal is that such notifications should be used even better for learning and improvement. The proposal has been at the hearing, and I have received a lot of input that I am now considering how to follow up. We have recently launched a national three-year patient safety campaign, «In safe hands». The campaign is concentrated on areas where we know that there is a need for improvement, for example. hospital infections and drug use. Proposals for new health and care laws propose the introduction of requirements that all specialist healthcare and municipal health care establishments are to carry out systematic work to ensure patient safety. Finally, as is well known, in 2012, the government will present a comprehensive communication on quality and patient safety in healthcare. In that big message, we want to include the evaluation of the callout unit, so it's part of this. On the basis of what I have said, I do not think it is desirable to set up a separate breakdown commission for the health sector now. It is right to make the callout team work out the probationary period, and to gather experience, and we will get back to this in the context of the 2012 Storing Message. The proposers wish to establish a separate special unit for police health matters. It is stated: ‘The challenge for the police is to assess issues that are often medically complex and for which they are not competent.’ In health-related matters, there could be competence in highly specialised disciplines. The Minister of Justice therefore stated that it is a better solution that the police have the opportunity to retrieve the highest external competence instead of building it up in the police. Against this background, it is therefore not considered appropriate to build special competences in the police, as proposed by the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e994	I have two questions for the Council of State. We have been involved in promoting a proposal that says that if a patient is mistreated, or for example. 10 times as high a dose of insulin as he should have, the healthcare professional shall be obliged to inform the patient of the consequences and, where appropriate, of how to proceed with it. What is the reason why the government parties will not accept this openness and this trusting function? Then we have also received a unanimous com mittee comment which points to the ‘that the State Disaster Commission for Transport is also responsible for examining the various inspections, while an unhidden body examining the Health Inspectorate does not exist in a similar manner’. How has the Council of State planned to solve that problem during this trial period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1008	I would like to stress that the government is very concerned with transparency when there are errors, and I am very pleased that several of the health companies actually take the floor for this, that they should be open about their mistakes and even publish their mistakes. In the context of the three-year patient safety campaign, everything shall be open, all shall be published, more quality shall be measured. This is particularly important in order to promote quality work and improve patient safety. This is a work that I think is very important, precisely on the basis of many of the themes raised in the posts here, which reveals that there are too many errors – unfortunately also errors that could have been avoided with better routines, with better systematics, with better use of standard guides. So this is a work that I consider to be very important, and openness is a matter of course and a necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1015	In both the letters of the Minister of Health and in the argumentation, it is sometimes difficult to get what is really the argument against a probationary system with a breakdown commission, in addition to the fact that one will wait and see. So my question is, why is it so difficult for the Minister of Health to support that a test out this scheme now, so that one has a better basis for deciding what should be the permanent scheme, at a later stage? My other question is: has the Ministry of Health and Health been in contact with the Committee on Transport during the treatment of this matter to identify the methodological difference between the functioning of this Commission and the functioning of the State Health Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1022	When it comes to why we want to wait, I have to say that my starting point has been completely different. My starting point has been, as for the proposers here today, strong encounters with relatives who actually have stories to tell that are important for health care and how we organise healthcare. I was then concerned about: How can we get the fastest change in practice – a practice from which you were initially supposed to report to the Health Inspectorate within a two-month period, which I thought was totally unacceptable? The criticism that also came against the Health Authority, against the fact that the relatives were not heard in the cases, I took very seriously. Just because this was the fastest action we could take, I started it. Once we've done that, it's the same goal as with a breakdown commission -- we could just as well call this something different. That is precisely why the scheme was implemented, and that is exactly why I want to follow that practice in the two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1029	I want to follow up on this last one, because it must also have come to mind that the users, those who have experienced this, have just had serious problems with the fact that it is the Health Authority that has not done a good enough job. And users in today's Norway, with user involvement, often come up with strong words and strong attitudes, so the Council of State must also have heard that it is a disaster commission that has experienced this desire. So the Council of State says that the reason is the time aspect. Yes, but we want a breakdown commission in parallel with this investigation commission. If it takes a little longer to create it, that's fine. But why not run two parallels when the users themselves may not feel good enough security with the system that the Council of State has set in motion?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1036	There should be no doubt that the relatives with whom I have spoken and with whom the committee has also spoken – I know – have strong stories to tell about serious incidents and not good enough care from the health care community. It's most regrettable. So is it that I asked myself the question: how can I get a change in the practice that I saw as unacceptable? It was unacceptable that the relatives were not taken care of, it was unacceptable that they felt that they were not trying to reveal responsibilities and causes, that they were not learning, and that no one was held responsible. Therefore, as the fastest way because there was both supervisory competence, legal competence and medical competence in the Health Authority, I chose that model. And then I'm going to work hard to gain experience both from our own country with that scheme and from other countries in connection with the big message that we're going to provide next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1043	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1048	Some political debates should split and show dividing lines, especially when a stand is based on different ideologies. However, some debates should bring together in order to achieve particularly important objectives. This is particularly important when ideologies do not distinguish on the basis of value. Social democrats, conservatives and liberals all want equally genuine and equally sincere investigations and treatment in Norway to be safe. Therefore, my posts in this and neighbouring matters will be little polemic, although it would not be difficult to use normal divisive rhetoric. All parties, except one, in this magnificence have had longer periods of government responsibility in recent times. All governments and all former health ministers have done too little for patient safety. Everyone has been too passive on their guard. That time is over. In the last year, patient safety has been put at the top of the health policy agenda, and it should call for both humility and generosity in all of us. The opposition should, in my view, give vent, recognise the political commitment of the Council of State to patient safety. The notified notification of patient safety is a breakthrough for comprehensive work in this area. At the same time, from the government side, we should be humble and listen to good proposals from the opposition. A little bit on the way, I think we have the ability to do it. For example, on the initiative of the opposition, we have taken the party position of patients and relatives, and there is a lack of a rapid selection for this. And further: in my opinion, today's committee position shows broad common political ground in the understanding of the situation, in the criticism of the system and in the need for new action. Such action cannot be either law and order or learning, but must be both, and in this lies the complexity of the matter. I feel that the proposers also see this complexity and therefore propose a new testing scheme. It is argued for testing two schemes at the same time. It is difficult to see how equal and equivalent legal certainty can be maintained during such a period. Finally, I agree with the representative, Höie: we have a bad time, we have no time to lose. Therefore, we should also evaluate our actions, including the call-out unit, with the shortest possible observation time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1063	I fully agree with the Minister of Health, and will also commend her for the initiative of a call-out unit in the State Health Authority. It was a necessary measure. Getting the Health Authority in place faster has been a main objection that has been followed up, and that is good. I also agree with the representative of Health that there should be a voice in this matter, but I would have liked the glimmer to go both ways – not least in relation to the fact that a proposal for a disaster commission is a proposal for a probationary system that there would have been no difficulty in introducing in parallel with the health minister's own initiative. There is absolutely no contradiction between the two measures. It was the health minister's response to my reply that I took this post again. For the health minister, she said in her answer that she might as well have called this emergency unit a breakdown commission. This makes my second question in the line, which I did not get an answer to, even more necessary now. It seems to me that it is obvious that the Minister of Health does not see the methodological difference that the State Health Agency is working on, and that the State’s Committee on Transport is working after. It is therefore necessary to repeat the question to the Minister of Health. During the half-year of this assessment by the Ministry of Health and Health — and the Committee has given the Minister of Health time to work on the proposal in addition to what was planned in the Committee — has the Ministry of Health and Health been in contact with the State Committee on Transport to investigate, with curiosity, their methodology and compare it with the methodology used by the State Health Authority? In that case, I would be a little more reassured than what I am when the health minister says she could have called the State Health Agency's caller for a accident commission. It was the same thing as if they had said that the State Aviation Authority is the same thing as the State Aviation Commission for Transport, and it's obviously not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1076	Like the representative, Mr Höie, I would also like to commend the Council of State for the work that has been started. There are several measures in place in terms of patient safety, and we are also receiving a large-scale report. It's joyous, and we all look forward to it very strongly. The representative Health says they should also listen to the opposition. I want to add that we're going to listen even more to those who have been in the middle of this, to those who I instead called the users, or relatives. It also surprises me that in a way you don't see the big difference between this exclamation unit as it's great that the Council of State has put down – if it was the fastest that could be done – and a breakdown commission that will be completely independent of the Health Authority. In our opinion, all the messages should of course also go to the Health Authority, so that they can do their job. But this independence makes a difference. I almost have to say that I feel like the Council of State and the government are doing a little bit, but they're just going half the way. I want to draw a parallel to another case that we have had in this room, and that I was in my post, which unfortunately is a good number of children under the age of 18 who die unexpectedly. Many of them die because they are subjected to violence when they are tiny, perhaps at home in the family or elsewhere, and it's dramatic. In this respect, the opposition has wanted to investigate all cases where children under the age of 18 die, and we did not. The right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have been very concerned about this, but what they got was a kind of voluntary investigation. I believe that this is not good enough, and I think it will prove that it is not good enough. Then we are told that the Health Inspectorate in a consultation opinion on this has said that they want to make this mandatory. It's very strong, and it's very important. And there you went only half the way. It would have been so fun and so incredibly important for relatives that we could have run two parallel attempts – because that's what we're talking about. And we can probably wait one month, or two or three, only there's going to be an experiment with an independent accident commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1092	I'm the first to recognize that the difference between this call-out unit and the accident commission on transportation is that our unit is within the Health Authority. However, health supervision is not part of hospitals or part of businesses; health supervision should be an independent supervisory body. So you might think that the unit shouldn't be there, but otherwise I can't see very big differences on these two systems. The aim is, of course, to identify the sequence of causes and events, to identify them as early as possible, and also to see if there is a basis for penalties. Maybe that's where the exclamation group is different from the opposition proposal. Learning I experience is central to both of these measures. So it may well be that the Health Inspectorate has a lot to learn from this accident commission for the transport sector. But otherwise I would say that initially they are quite different, because in health care it will after all be that although many deaths are unexpected deaths, they may have natural causes. Many people think that the callout team has moved out too little, but the numbers from our callout unit, that is, from the Health Authority, and the State's Committee on Transport shows that the callout figures are about the same. It is also the case that in the Transport Disaster Commission only a small proportion of accidents are investigated, only those where system failures may be part of the cause image. For me, it is important that individual events are thoroughly investigated, and, as I say, that all aspects are included in order to reveal the course of events, causality and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1102	The representative of Laila Bavøy has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1105	I hear what the council says. However, the Council of State ignores the fact that one of the biggest accusations from relatives after these unexpected deaths goes against the State’s health surveillance — and lack of follow-up from them. It is the same health surveillance that has now been given responsibility for the call-out group. That's the point that we want an independent accident commission. Then I ask the Council of State to answer the representative, Höie's last question, because she has not actually done that – and that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1128	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Mandt, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Wenche Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1139	Document 8:163 S on the introduction of a system of psychiatric ambulances in all counties of the country, from the representatives Per Arne Olsen, Kjos and Gåsvatn, is a proposal to establish own ambulances for psychiatric patients. This is after a model of the scheme from Health West in Stavanger and Bergen. Before Christmas we had hearings on the matter, where the Medical Association participated, and in addition, the committee received a hearing note from the Mental Health Association. Both the Medical Association and the Mental Health Association were concerned that psychiatric patients should have the same demands on sick transport as somatic patients. It supports all the parties in the committee. The minority, promoting their own proposal, consists of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, and I expect them to justify and explain their own proposal. The majority request that the matter be annexed to the minutes. So to what the Workers' Party believes about the matter. We're concerned that coercion within psychiatry should be reduced to the absolute minimum. We therefore look forward to an assessment of the ethical, professional and legal aspects of current legislation and practices relating to coercion in mental health protection by the legislative committee set up. It is true that all health businesses are responsible for good health transport for those who need it. We must therefore expect health companies to use the police only when absolutely necessary. The Labour Party is concerned that only in very special cases where there is a risk to life and health, or one needs to get into the home, is the police responsible for the transport – this is because only the police can use power outside the institution. We assume that this happens in civil. We have a strong understanding that there is an extra strain on both the patient and the family when the police come in uniform and in a police car. During the hearings, the Medical Association was also aware that there will be some cases requiring the use of the police, but they pointed out that it is important to wear civil clothing. For the Workers' Party, it is important that all should have the same access to the use of ambulances in case of acute illness, regardless of what fails. Nevertheless, when we do not choose to support the proposers, it has the background that we believe that health businesses are already responsible for health transport. The most important thing is to meet everyone's needs. The fact that there are well-qualified personnel in the ambulance is important. It also means personnel with expertise in acute psychiatry, just as there are people with competence in acute somatics who move out when there is a need to do so. In Stavanger and Bergen we see that when the «psyche car» does not have assignments within the psychiatry, it is used in the somatic field. It shows that the most important thing is not which ambulance you have, but that there are well-qualified staff with the right skills in place. Norway is a long-distance country, and not everywhere is as densely populated as Stavanger and Bergen. What works well in some place is not necessarily the right thing in all other places. I would think that in a state like Finnmark, with the distances and the population we have there, it would be wise to organize the ambulance service in a completely different way than in big cities like Bergen. So instead of providing detailed guidance to healthcare companies about the kind of ambulances they should have, we think it is more important that they organise the supply according to the area and the need for which they are responsible. Finally, I would like to point out that we are very concerned that psychiatry should be equated with somatics, and that is why we believe that this should be resolved by the fact that there are good offers in the ambulances that we currently have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1160	Some time ago I was contacted by a policeman. He had been called up several times for a job that involved picking up mentally ill people. Sometimes such assignments are justified, he says, because the person is so unstable that he is at risk of harming himself or others. But in most cases he asks a big question about why the police are called. He could tell that they often traveled to densely populated residential areas with families with children and great transparency. The problem is that neighbors are watching a police car come and pick up a person, and the gossip goes. It speculates and whispers about what the wrong person has done. The child is met with questions about what the child’s mother or father has done wrong, and children and relatives generally feel bullied. So the person who's sick is viewed as a criminal, and this affects both the sick and his closest. I am shocked by what he tells me, and wonder that in Norway we treat people so badly, so disrespectfully. So we add extra stones knowingly and willfully to the burden for people who already live difficult lives. This cannot be accepted by the Progress Party. This is about human dignity and equality. That is why this proposal for a representative came about. In preparing the proposal, I found that there were very many others who shared this concern. On Facebook, there is a group called YES for a psych car in all states NOW! and they have more than 13 000 trailers. The medical association suggests that ‘psychic car’ can reduce the use of coercion, prevent stigma and reduce the risk of escalating. The medical association referred to a study that interviewed patients who had been coerced. This study showed that being transported to treatment in handcuffs had been the most traumatic for the patient. For the Progress Party, it is difficult to understand that with all the knowledge we have from health professionals, from patients, from relatives and from the police, we still want to stigmatise and suppress seriously ill people. Psychiatric patients, like other patients, are required to be treated with care, empathy and professional competence in transportation to hospitals. Transport in a police car, the use of handcuffs during transport and the absence of health professionals during transport is a clear violation of human dignity and often leads to a deterioration of disease. So the government parties accept that the treatment starts with an infringement. So they accept that sick people are treated as criminals, when they need it, health care. Psychiatric ambulance has been introduced in Bergen and Stavanger. These ensure a humane and medically sound health transport and have been a great success because the sick person experiences it as help, not punishment. Why is it the residence address that determines how to be treated in our country? Because the Minister of Health does not want to instruct health companies in this matter, and despite the fact that the police themselves say that the health services are increasingly shifting responsibility to them. In Oppland Arbeiderblad on 10 June last year, we were able to read an article that referred to the increasing pressure on the police to deal with mentally ill people. It says that Police Director Ingelin Killangereen has stated that the police can be too kind to undertake tasks that are strictly outside their remit. At the same time, it's hard for the police to say no. This also means that the police do not have the capacity to give priority to some of the tasks they have been assigned to do, such as: thieving. A joint committee says that it is very important that only in cases of necessity should police be used for the transport of sick people, and that the police should act in civil matters. But the government parties believe that it keeps believing – they believe and they require. An overall opposition will not just mean, believe and assume – this matter is simply too important. I refer to the proposal that is in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1194	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1197	This proposal is about, as the Right sees it, one of the major and fundamental challenges in psychiatry, namely the use of coercion against mentally ill people. On several occasions, the right has raised the question of the use of coercion and that it needs to be reduced. There must be an explicit, clear goal of reducing coercion in psychiatry, so that there is no abuse. It requires both dimensioning and design of the offer in such a way that treatment can be based to the greatest extent possible on volunteering. A system of nationwide psychiatric ambulances we believe will be a good and equivalent offer to psychiatric patients. Experience shows that it reduces the use of coercive measures by police and doctors in municipalities and in mental health protection. In addition, stigmatisation is prevented by a very vulnerable group of patients. A system of psychiatric ambulances will also equate somatic and mental diseases. It is the health service that is responsible for persons under mental health protection. However, the police have an obligation to help in situations where necessary. It is important that, on a case-by-case basis, careful consideration be given to what is necessary in order to obtain assistance from the police. It is not difficult to imagine that the use of the police in hospital can help to exacerbate the situation, and it may be difficult to establish a good and necessary trust between the patient and the doctor to treat. Getting police assistance in situations where it is strictly unnecessary could contribute to further stigmatisation and criminalisation of people with a serious mental illness. The assistance provided by the police is primarily necessary when there is a need to exercise power outside the institution, and is relevant in cases where the sick person is able to cause himself or herself or other harm and where health professionals are unable to avert it. In Bergen, more people have had a psychiatric ambulance scheme for five years. Before it was established, there was great frustration in the police, they often spent hours on one mission. They believe that psychiatry has led to much less police resources being used in psychiatry. Through the establishment of the psychiatry clinic, the health care system has become more aware of its responsibilities in carrying out the transport of mentally ill people. The police provide assistance if it appears natural and desirable. There are cases where power needs to be used that are specific to the police. The Psychiatric Bulb in Bergen has done 5,200 missions and well. Since the launch in 2005 and until December 2008, the psychiatry ambulance had been assisted by the police in only 12 p.m. Of the 4,437 jobs they had been on. In only half of these missions, power was necessary. It shows that the psychiatrybulance can handle most tasks without police assistance. The staff of the psychiatric ambulance in Bergen say that there is a thoughtful attitude to regulation and the use of coercion that makes them now dare to go out alone. There are on average five calls per watch, but on some shifts there may be up to 13 calls. The assignment may concern both voluntary admission, forced admission, compulsory medical examination and coercive medication. Both patients and relatives stress that it is good to be met by health professionals and not by the police. Both in Bergen and Stavanger, the staff working in the ambulance are specifically selected for this work, both in terms of personal characteristics and experience from mental health protection. They receive training and practice interaction, not least to involve the patient without having to use physical or special equipment. Guidelines for the use of the ambulance have also been developed, and the measures taken in relation to patients during transport must always be documented. The system works very well for patients. The right believes that such a system is well-tested both in Bergen and Stavanger, and we therefore support the proposal to introduce an offer of psychiatric ambulance according to the Health West model, as both the Medical Association and several patient organisations do. It is important that such a scheme becomes nationwide where geographical conditions make the scheme practical and appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1218	Health Bergen has introduced a special transport service for psychiatric patients that can be a model for the rest of the country. The evaluation of the scheme shows that it relieves the police and reduces the use of power. Health Bergen is very pleased with the scheme, which has been described as a success. The offer is given not only to residents of the municipality of Bergen, but also to the 22 small and large municipalities that are in the area of Health Bergen's recording, and as I said, it is only positive experiences. It is essential that mentally ill patients have the same demands for emergency care, including ambulance transport, as those with somatic diseases. It is the responsibility of health businesses to provide an equivalent offer, and it is the responsibility of health businesses to ensure competence in ambulances covering both acute mental and somatic disorders. The system of psychiatrybulence therefore appears to be a good way to organise the ambulance service, and the scheme ensures patients a more equivalent offer with greater dignity. It is gratifying that several health businesses look to Health Bergen and put in place similar schemes. Stavanger University Hospital has launched its own psychiatry clinic from 1 February 2010. From the new year, the psychiatrybulance also became an offer in the South Trondelag. Health Nord, I read, consider that the system of own ambulances for psychiatric patients will be difficult to function there, based on the length of the county, and how few people live there. However, even if some companies consider that their own psychiatrybulence is not appropriate in their districts, the transport of mentally ill patients needs to be improved and made in a more dignified way, for example. when using normal car and civil clothing. I don't think it's worth much that mentally ill patients are picked up by uniformed police, and it's not right that the police should use their resources on something that is definitely the responsibility of the health sector. The fact that the police are called upon in dangerous and unstable situations is quite another and, of course, also absolutely necessary. I therefore have a great deal of understanding of the problem raised by the Progress Party here, and I support the intentions behind the proposals of the Progress Party. The scheme should be made as comprehensive as possible as soon as possible. The Council of State states in its letter that it will, among other things: a mission document to health enterprises has been given a governance signal that health businesses are to provide good and dignified transport systems for mentally ill people, which are to help reduce the use of coercion and police resources to a minimum. Guidelines have also been provided in a circular stating that, as a general rule, health professionals should be present during the assistance mission and that police handling should be done in the most gentle manner possible. The new national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercive measures has also commissioned regional health businesses to develop regional and local obligatory action plans. A minimum requirement for the content of these plans is, inter alia: appropriate and prudent transport arrangements. Undertakings are required to report back to the Ministry in an annual report on the follow-up to the plan. I believe that the Council of State statement shows that there are already strong political leaders through legislation, circulars and other governance signals to undertakings for the creation of psychiatric ambulances in enterprises. However, I believe that we need to keep a close eye on this development, and I am open that this must be managed even more strongly, unless progress is made towards the establishment of such offers within a reasonable period of time by most companies. I think, briefly, that companies should have good reasons for not establishing a psychiatric ambulance service scheme, because it is a development that we want, and the experience is extremely positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1233	Psychiatric disease is a disease in line with other diseases. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2008 had as an important objective to increase the transparency of mental disorders. Unfortunately, the fact that the police come and pick up mentally ill seems stigmatizing. We in the Christian People's Party support the proposal to introduce an offer of psychiatric ambulance services according to the model from the Health West where it has been very successful. The key to supporting this proposal is the positive results of the evaluation, in particular the reduction in the use of power and the relief of police and the consultation opinions of both the Medical Association and Mental Health. Psychiatric ambulances look like a common but slightly larger ambulance with room for both patients, health professionals and relatives. After two years of operation, the ambulances got the same color as regular ambulances, after being grey and anonymous. Similarly, the employability of employees was also similar to that of regular ambulance workers. The aim was precisely to signal clearly that there were health workers, and thus to equate physical and mental illness. The aim of the psychiatric ambulance service has been to ensure that mentally ill people receive an offer of transport for treatment that is characterised by respect and equivalency. The last thing I said here is incredibly important: that there is an ambulance, that there are health professionals coming. I'm a trained nurse, and I've been working in the psychiatry. I will never forget once I received a patient who in periods became psychotic. She was very difficult to get to the hospital. One day she came, she looked at me, and then she said, "Hey, Laila, now I'm here, now I'm safe. You, why can't they put on some white coats, those that come and pick me up? You see, I get so scared, I don't know who they are. I think they have come to attack me." That's why it's important that there are health workers who come, when there's a psychiatric patient who might occasionally be psychotic. In any case, there is sometimes something that is still in place: a white coat, an ambulance driver with a coat or a recognizable lining. Psychiatric disorders have in many ways made health care aware of their responsibilities for the transport of mentally ill people. It is a cross-political objective to reduce the use of coercion in psychiatry, and it is incredibly good when this type of action can contribute to it. It also helps to explain why there are geographical differences related to coercive use. Organising services in new ways, changing the way you work, and not least working with coercive attitudes can also reduce coercive use, which is very important. So finally, the Christian People's Party meets the work of the committee appointed by the government, which is to clarify the legislation for the use of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1250	Just a brief left-wing explanation of vote. I have followed the debate, it is an important debate, and I should like to commend the rapporteurs who have raised this matter. The left, as many have also been concerned about, is about the high use of coercion in mental health services. We believe that there is a need for much better training and a greater focus on forced use in healthcare. The left has programmed to extend the use of alternatives to police transport at forced insertion, for example: by model from Bergen, which we have heard several times here today. The left supports the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1257	It's important, as it's mentioned here, to focus on the sick transport and ambulance transport of psychiatric patients. It is also important to stress that mentally ill people have the same demands on acute health services, including ambulances, as do somatically ill people. It is the responsibility of health businesses to contribute to this. This means that it is the responsibility of health businesses to ensure that the ambulance service has the necessary competence for acutely ill patients. And so, as the Committee says in its position, psychiatrybulances cannot replace the use of police in dangerous and unstable situations. Only the police have authority to use power outside the institutions. I want to stress, and that is the SV's very clear view, that it is a general objective of health policy and of psychiatry that we should reduce the use of coercion. It is too high in Norway, and it must also apply to ambulance transport and sick transport of mentally ill. It is therefore important that the police be used only when strictly necessary, and that in such cases the police act in civil matters. In previous articles and in the proposals here, it is referred to the experience of Health Bergen with its own transport service for psychiatric patients and that this transport service only has unparalleled positive experience and results. Among other things, it has contributed to a reduction in the use of coercion and to a reduction in the number of insertions. This is very important and very good experience, which I assume the Council of State contributes to being transferred to other health companies as well. So, the good experience we have in this area must be transferred in other areas, cf. the debate we have had on a previous case today, on a health sector accident commission, on learning from mistakes and learning from good experience. It will in any case be as the representative Sonja Mandt said in his statement earlier today, that it is not certain that you can transfer the experience you have had in Bergen to, for example. the offer in Finnmark, or in the districts, where there is more limited access to professionals. It is very important to take into account that where good results are achieved, and in those cases where good results are obtained, they are used to practice also in the rest of the psychiatry and in the rest of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1270	People with mental disorders must be guaranteed a good and worthwhile transport offer in line with all other patient groups. It is therefore an important theme that the proposers address. We fully agree on the objective, namely to ensure that patients who are in a particularly vulnerable situation receive the best possible offer. The health service is responsible for providing immediate help and necessary health care to people with mental disorders. In some situations, the police will also be responsible for providing help and being a necessary supporter. As you know, only the police have the authority to use physical power outside the institution, for example. where there is a risk to life and health. Assistance from the police shall therefore only be used where safety and risk considerations so warrant. Here, guidelines and clear lines of responsibility are important. Health services and the police need to cooperate closely on the situations to be dealt with by healthcare and the situations requiring police assistance. The general rule is that health professionals should be present when assisting the police. As regards guidelines for the transport of people with mental illness, I refer to my response to the Health and Care Committee in a letter dated 2 November 2010. Here are the proposals for a system of psychiatric ambulances in all the counties of the country. The use of coercion against persons with mental illness should be reduced. These were also the representatives of Kjønaas Kjos and Sjøli. It is a clear goal for the government as well. This is followed up by the Ministry, among others. through the national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercive measures in mental health services. Regional health businesses have been given the task of developing regional and local enforcement action plans. Valuable and prudent transport arrangements are a minimum requirement of these plans. All regional health businesses report that enterprises are working to establish good and value transport systems for people with mental health disorders. Some places are common ambulances the best solution. At other locations, taxis are used or the emergency team is moving out. In the northernmost counties it may be relevant for air transport. Health West has good experience with psychiatric ambulances in Health Bergen and Health Stavanger. At the same time, other healthcare companies in the region have chosen to use normal ambulances or outpatient teams or a civil service car for patients who want to do so. Health West stresses that psychiatric ambulances cannot replace police in acutely dangerous situations with unstable people. All regional health establishments report that they are very conscious of using the police as little as possible and only when absolutely necessary. Cooperation with local police is described as good. The migration of mental health protection shall be completed, inter alia: to ensure a decent and good service to the patient group we are talking about today. Conversion is a central tool for reducing and ensuring the quality of the use of coercion. More outpatient and outpatient services locally are an important part of this initiative. In the 2010 mission document to regional health businesses, we have called for an increase in outpatient activity. From 2005 until now, there are about 150 outpatient teams for people with mental and drug dependence. This positive development means that patients receive faster and more accurate help, that emergency interventions are avoided, and that the use of the police can be reduced. I would also like to refer to the legislative committee that was appointed in May 2010 to assess ethical, professional and legal aspects of legislation and practices in the field of mental health protection. I have called for decent and caring transport arrangements for people with mental disorders to be designed in all regions. I trust that the regions will further develop transport provision in the best possible way for patients and within the framework of legislation, guidelines and guidance signals. I have great faith that the conversion work in the service offer will further contribute to a better and more accessible service offer with reduced and quality assurance of coercion to people with mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1300	When absolutely everyone who has commented on a sick car supports the proposal, when studies show that the lack of a sick car and the use of the police is perceived as stigmatizing and frightening and increases the feeling of coercion, when the police believe that increased sick transport is going beyond the work they are actually assigned to do, it is difficult to understand why the Minister of Health does not want to instruct. As usual, the Minister of Health has ‘trust’ that health businesses do what the Minister of Health really wants. So no one has anything negative to say about establishing a sick car in all the counties, and then the question is, why in the world can't the Health Minister simply instruct health companies when that's what we actually want?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1305	I think it is important to make demands on transport systems, that they should be worthy, that they should be gentle, but I also see that different parts of the country need different modes of transport. Then, frankly, I can't understand why we're going to standardize it to psychiatrybulence. It could be taxi. It may be more appropriate for an outpatient outpatient team to leave, or there may be other types of ambulance. What's important is that we achieve what we want: minimum use of coercion. It is absolutely high on my agenda – I just want to refer to the legislative committee that has been set up – that we should take care of this patient group in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1310	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1315	First, the answer given by the Council of State in its reply to the representative of Kjønaas Kjos. Reality is, of course, even if an introduction of psychiatrybulence in all states does not exclude the possibility of having other measures where necessary. There is, of course, a strengthening of the total supply of psychiatric patients that this proposal addresses. Therefore, I find it disappointing that the Council of State is not clear to health professionals about what can actually have a tangible effect. Health experience is clearly positive. It also provides support to all the speakers. Then I found it strange that the Council of State is not clearer than what she has chosen to be here today. Nor do I understand the background that the Council of State refuses to take concrete action, for it says that it agrees with the intention. She says she's in agreement with the intention. If we look at the experiences they have gained in Health West, they show that the supply is improved. There is clear experience to improve the supply of patients. The cost is a minimal increase. It is the composition of staff, a wider community of competences, which is the basis of the psychiatrybulence and which gives you a better supply for a new user group or for a larger user group. When the government party in this case says that they should equate the supply of somatic medicine and psychiatry in an existing ambulance, I believe they understand the intention of the psychiatrybulence proposal. But at the same time, you have to be aware that it is precisely an extension of the offer to have psychiatric special skills also in the ambulances, which makes a sheep for it. We can never achieve that competence within today's ambulance service, unless you are willing to give health care professionals a clear indication of the direction they are going in. Mental Health is in agreement with the proposers, the Medical Association agrees with the proposers, the police agree with the proposers and say that yes, the police naturally have a responsibility in which one should use coercion, but one can reduce both the burden on patients and the police by applying this scheme. That's why it's disappointing that the government parties don't meet us when they actually agree with us in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1328	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1344	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1353	This government is systematically strengthening ICT efforts in the health sector. It happens in many different ways. Information technologies are important for communication and information between health care actors and between the health sector and patients/users. Good information to all about the different healthcare services is essential in order to provide equivalent healthcare across the country. We also need good health records to provide us with up-to-date knowledge of diseases, their origins and methods of treatment. We can use information technology to raise awareness of quality – not least when we are about to prevent damage and death in the health sector, a theme that has been debated here in the United Kingdom earlier today. And we can, for example, use care technologies to free up labour, so that efforts in the health and care sector can be used more targeted and meaningfully. Therefore, two key strategies have been put forward by the government: Interaction 2.0 National Strategy for Electronic Interaction in the Health and Care Sector 2008–2013 and Strategy for Modernising and Co-ordinating Central Health and Medical Quality Records 2010–2020. Today’s representative proposal, Document 8:9 S, calls for the establishment of a national online health portal with various informational and communicative functions to enable patients and users to acquire up-to-date knowledge and communicate with the healthcare system. That's excellent. But then there is one important point here, namely that the government is already setting up such a portal, that the action is duly mentioned in the Action 2.0 strategy paper, and that the State budget for 2011 is set at 35 million. kr for the creation of the portal. Therefore it could be tempting to say to the proposers: Welcome after! But I won't. Instead, I will inform you that the health portal is intended to start operations in June this year, and that patients, users and relatives will have access to quality assurance information on disease and treatment, different health services and waiting times, as well as guidance on rights and support schemes. Other services, such as: the exchange of fixed schedules and the list of own prescriptions and paid balances will also be made available. The portal shall then be continuously developed and supplemented with content such as: electronic scheduling of hours, access to personal data, distance consultations, dialogue between patients/users and healthcare and the renewal of prescriptions. I believe that the National Health Portal will be of great benefit to both users, patients and health care providers. However, I do not fully understand the initiators behind this proposal for a representative, who – as I understand it – believe that the content of the portal must almost be defined in advance, before starting. For my part, I believe more in the strategy that the government has chosen, that you add some core functions in the first step, and then expand the portal with new offers gradually. We can then also ensure that the actors in the healthcare system – which the portal depends on – are prepared to provide both quality information and to communicate with users and patients via the portal. We also need to ensure technological solutions, both in terms of functionality and – not least – in terms of privacy. I look forward to the start of the National Health Portal for the summer and recommend that document 8:9 S be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1374	Good and accessible information to all on the different health services and other health-related issues is important for providing equivalent healthcare across the country, but also important for strengthening patients’ rights, free choice and, in particular, influence over their own lives and health. It is therefore gratifying that it has been proposed that funds be allocated to establish a single national health portal for health information and that the Stortinget has joined it. And I agree with the Minister of Health and Care, who believes that patients, users and dependants through the National Health Portal will have access to quality assurance information on both illness and treatment, different health services and waiting times, as well as guidance on rights and support schemes. Other services, such as the exchange of fixed, separate prescriptions and excesses, will also become available. The Progress Party – and so does the Committee – believes that data protection is ensured in a safe and effective way in its work on the portal. The progress party thinks it is nice that the work on the health portal is now finally underway, and that the start of operations is planned in June 2011. We assume that the timeframe is followed. A development of the portal, which is then further developed with additional content, such as: electronic scheduling, access to personal data, distance consultations, user-health dialogue, renewal of prescriptions are also good. It is important that this does not become static, but that development is continuously sought in line with developments that characterise the ICT sector. The opposition has underlined the need for the establishment of this public online health portal from the outset to consider what should be the goal of the portal and what functions such a portal should offer. Some essential functions will need to be: An information source for citizens about their own health is important. Taking up one’s own life and health is important both for society and for individuals. The fact that citizens can use the portal to share information about their health status with their permanent and specialist health services and not, which today, had to wait for weeks before the epicrisis comes, sent by B-mail, is important. The safe availability of functionality for patients to discuss with other patients is also very important. I have experienced myself that some of the information I received from the hospital was important, but not least the information I received from other patients who had undergone exactly the same and had experience was important. I think that's important for other patients too. The interaction area in which the patient, primary health care and specialist health services meet with a background in a common information base is one of the key prerequisites for achieving the Cooperation Reform, the objective of which we all agree. That relatives can also take responsibility for a family member, whether it's a child or a parent, I think also give an opportunity that we haven't had before. We all experience following our children, but not least in certain phases of life also older relatives without really having the knowledge we would prefer. Here you can enter the unique options for the portal. In particular, the right perspective is important: ensuring that citizens are informed about both their diagnosis and their rights. Here we have a long way to go. This could be the first of many good steps. For this reason, it is also important that we develop these registers to also contain quality, not just waiting times, so that you can actually choose both quality and waiting time. With this as a back ground, the Progress Party believes that there will be an advantage if the government makes a reworked proposal for a web-based health portal that contains both objectives, main content and progress. With those words I will be allowed to address the proposal referred to in the case, and consider it to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1410	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1413	This is a matter in which I perceive that there is quite a broad political consensus on the objective of using the Internet, telecommunications, to a greater extent, to improve patient provision and to improve communication between the individual patient and the healthcare system. Fortunately, we're not there that there are different ideological views, that some parties are for and some are against the Internet. So this is relatively easy to relate to like that. What is the point, however, of this proposal by the Right – there is no doubt in what direction we are going – is that it will be a point that what might involve one of the major changes in our healthcare system to the relationship between health care and patients is presented as a well-worked case for political treatment, not to prevent the progress that is already taking place, or to stop the work that is already going on, but simply to get a broad political debate on what is the objective of the direction in which we are now in – what functions is there a desire to be in place at some point, and what limitations, if any, should we look at? For example, the question of making the journal available online to the individual in a secure way, which I expect most people will see for themselves to be a result in the future, raises some important discussions about opportunities, limitations, limitations and how this should be done. It is in our opinion political discussions that belong in the Storting. That is why it is our wish, which is also reflected in the joint proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, that the government had well come up with a matter that was just about what should be the content of such an online national health portal. Now it seems like you've put up with the strategy that the road gets there while you're walking. It will certainly lead to improvements – that is not our point – but we believe that this is such an important political issue that it should be anchored more broadly politically. This is a matter that I believe this health and care committee is very concerned about. If one looks at the setting for the Cooperation Reform, one sees that in this chapter the Committee actually agrees from the beginning to the end. The Health and Welfare Committee is also so offensive that it was nominated for the eHealth prize of the year as the overall committee. Now we didn't – we didn't get it – but at least it shows that the Committee's common commitment in this area is also reflected in the environments working on these issues. That is the background to the fact that we believe it is also necessary today to make a proposal that the Storting should ask the government in an appropriate way to promote a case that makes the Storting better than in the case of a large budget proposal, to express the objective and the means in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1426	Good information on health issues and the provision of healthcare is an important prerequisite for achieving the objective of ensuring good and equivalent healthcare for all and ensuring increased patient and user involvement. The fact that there are a number of websites today, but not a common entry portal for health information, is a weakness. The government parties agree with the proposers that the experience from Denmark is important, where a public online health portal has been established. This service may provide users with access to their own records and to the possibility of renewing prescriptions, etc. The web portal also provides information on waiting times and different quality measurements. In the State budget, the size has allowed money to establish a single national health portal for health information also in Norway. Start-up and operation is planned in June 2011. Through this, patients, users and relatives can be guaranteed access to quality assurance information on disease and treatment, different health services and waiting times and guidance on rights and support schemes. The replacement of fixed, separate prescriptions and excesses will also be made available. Then it is a goal that the portal will then be further developed with additional content, such as: electronic scheduling, access to personal data, distance consultations, dialogue between the user and healthcare system, renewal of prescriptions, etc. I have to admit that I have had problems understanding why the opposition has submitted this proposal for a representative, because it seems that it is opening wide doors. It is difficult to see the purpose behind the proposal, as this is a work that has started so well – it has already been allocated money – and it is actually going to be a reality soon. After hearing Bent Höie’s posts, I can understand that there may be some discussion about some of the tasks that are planned – not now, but in the long term – for example. this with transparency in own records. I have heard from professionals that there is a shared view of the consequences of it, and I assume that if there are services to be included in the health portal on which it is necessary to have a political debate, those issues are raised politically before they are included in the portal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1439	I am pleased with the opportunity to talk about health information online. Proposals propose to draw up an action plan for the establishment of a public online health portal. As others have said, this work is already well under way. Last summer I had the first working meeting in that context, and we have also mentioned this in the draft budget for the current year, to which the Stortinget has joined. Online services are a matter of course in 2011, and I understand that patients and users have high expectations for such solutions also for healthcare. They go online to get information about lifestyles, diseases and services. Increasingly, health services are also expected to be accessible via electronic media. The Health Portal shall meet these requirements with user-friendly and secure services, including opportunities for online communication with health professionals. Today, there are a number of websites for patients and users, but no common national access portal for online health information. Experience from other countries shows that information, self-service and online dialogue can provide better treatment and pay off financially. It is important, as the representatives also point out, that the content of the web portal must be of high quality and that the public, personnel and authorities can rely on the correctness of the information. The health portal shall provide important information on health and, in particular, knowledge of living habits, which can help users to prevent disease and promote good health. I want the Health Portal to provide patients with the best basis for choosing services. It will be important to inform about health services, patient rights, waiting times for treatment and reimbursement schemes — to mention something. The representative Per Arne Olsen pointed out that it was important for him to talk to others who were in the same situation, when he was a patient. Today, many people use the Internet, SMS and Facebook to get in touch with others in the same situation. We want such user networks to be set up on the health portal. Established solutions such as: ‘European Health Social Security Card’, ‘my props’, ‘my prescriptions’, ‘free hospital choice’ and ‘fixed exchange’ shall also be entered in the portal. In the long term, we need to establish even more self-service solutions in the portal, including: related to the establishment of a national core file. In order to succeed, it is important that users, personnel, authorities and administration are involved in the development of the health portal. We have ensured this by setting up a project involving health professionals, among others. through regular working meetings, consultation rounds, reference group meetings and steering group meetings. It is also important that a health portal is dynamic. Developments are moving fast, and we need to constantly be able to adapt services to the needs we see and to what is possible. The portal should therefore be developed continuously with additional content and functionality. The proposers make specific requirements for privacy. To that end, of course, privacy will be protected. To the representative, Höie, who was concerned about exactly this, it is to say that when electronic core files are going online, it requires, as we see it, a legislative change, and the matter will then be dealt with in Stortinget. An overall objective of the Health Portal is that patients and users can be active participants in issues related to their own health. The new health portal healthnorge.no will be launched in June. First of all, we prioritise information services for the population. The content shall be developed gradually. In the long term, we will provide electronic services such as hourly booking, access to our own health information, communication with health professionals, renewal of prescriptions, etc. Two thirds of the population use the Internet for health purposes, showing a 2007 Health Directorate survey. I want to increase the availability of healthcare. I therefore look forward to opening health basket.no for the summer. The Health Portal facilitates easy access for patients and their relatives to quality-guaranteed health information on the web and subsequently also electronic dialogue with healthcare and access to their own data.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1471	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1489	Let me start with a statement: A diverse, strong, varied and scattered private ownership is a central building block for Norway’s future well-being. What must be done to stimulate it? President Obama recently said in his State of the Union Address about the United States at «we out-innovate, we out-educate, we out-build the rest of the world». The big power measurement behind such a statement can be forgotten, but transferred to economic terms is our challenge much of the same. Norway has a well-being at the top of the world. How sovereign at the top is illustrated by the compilation carried out by The Economist every year. In the year-on-year version, GDP per capita in Norway is reported to be about $87 000, Switzerland to approx. 65 000 dollars, while countries such as the United States and the most prosperous EU countries are 40 000 to 50 000 dollars. The well-being of Norway depends on trade. We have a relatively flexible economy where low-value jobs have been laid down or moved out, and we have thus benefited from China's and Asia's economic growth. We import cheaply and sell expensively. The fact that raw materials have evolved most has served us well, but there is also the challenge. We have become commodity oriented, and much of the business in Norway is based on demand driven by the commodity foundation. We have seen in the debate: ‘What shall we live on when the oil ends?’ in Norway. No one has the answer. The new business, the new jobs and the new value creation that will keep us at the top of the world is not known today. It's enough to look 10 to 15 years back. Glass sphere with the answer does not exist. We are innovative, but the ability to bring the idea to the market is weak. Many factors come into play here, but one of the answers lies in developing framework conditions that stimulate innovation and enable these innovations to find funding. There comes ownership and diversity. Ownership creates debate. In certain areas, such as power, we are so concerned with national ownership that the law excludes foreigners. When Elkem was purchased, the demand for government investment funds came quickly. The State and laws cannot guarantee either national ownership or future well-being alone. State ownership is suitable for maintenance and defence. The new, the creative and the innovative needs diversity in order to get ahead. The background for today’s interpellation was a look-up in the Financial Newspaper on 8 December 2010. ‘Tax threatens the ownership of employees’ was the heading. Road cover, which is probably the company in Norway that has invested most actively in employee ownership, was the starting point. Road cover believes that their participation has contributed to better profitability and more committed employees. So there's a lot of reasons to focus on private ownership. One can, if one is studying the development of Oslo Børs, get the impression that private ownership is almost wiped out in Norway. Of the company's values, Oslo Børs was only 4 pst. owned by individuals this year's New Year's Day. This proportion has been declining continuously in the last ten years. At Oslo Børs, the state and foreigners dominate. Foreigners and the country's shares fluctuate by about one third. Much indicates that the tax on wealth has the effect you have to expect. The ownership is concentrated on those who do not pay that tax. But Oslo Børs says far from anything about Norwegian business. The ‘unlisted ownership’, meaning that the company is not on the stock exchange, is easy to forget, but is nevertheless very central. Non-listed companies have accumulated approximately four times as many income as listed companies, they employ almost four times as many and hold about twice as many assets. Øyvind Bøhren, professor at BI, has done a lot of interesting work on this. The findings of his studies also suggest that the marginal return on real investment is higher among non-listed companies than for listed companies. This is a serious bias. The tighter and more difficult access to capital for these companies is likely to lead to underinvestment. In addition, they must pay higher interest than the listed companies. A simple conclusion is therefore that the taxes on wealth affect these companies extra hard. The non-listed companies have more concentrated ownership and, unlike the listed companies, they often have personal owners. These are people who put everything on the farm. They don't have a book item, but they take the risk of creating jobs. It is their life's work, and they are partly quite anonymous. We have a critical error focus in Norwegian policy. The vast majority of Norwegian value creation is dominated by ownership that barely gets any focus. It's a good ownership. It creates results and developments, but it is hampered by weak access to capital and by tax rules that also drain it of resources every year: the wealth tax. However, the diversity of private and invisible ownership spread around tens of thousands of enterprises in Norway is central to the creation of value added and employment in the country. This ownership is weak, but it creates results. However, the backbone of meeting counterbasins is weaker than that of the often focused ownership: what is on the stock exchange. Ownership is important. Private ownership is important. It's documented. It gives stability, and it gives innovation. Equal treatment and capital mobility are important to ensure Norwegian well-being and jobs in the future. It's a tax system task to ensure this. Then it's how. The debate on taxes on wealth is well known. The government chooses to stand firm on a tax that gets the expected effect. The ‘noted’ ownership in Norway is concentrated against the country and non-residents and the local ‘unlisted’ ownership is weakened. But there are other grips you can also take. A few weeks ago, it became known that DnB NOR, a bank with significant state ownership, offered its customers a solution similar to that of Road Deck on behalf of its employees and the co-owners asked for as a general option for the small private shareholder. The right proposed the same in a draft representative last year, Document 8:43 S for 2009-2010. The model is CLASS and would give small private shareholders the same opportunity as the exemption model that is available through limited liability companies, as long as the capital is retained in shares and not withdrawn for consumption, as it works for limited liability companies. Last year's right-hand proposal was rejected by the government parties, but now DnB NOR has offered the solution. It should not be necessary for the small man to be pressured into paying administrative fees and fees to the bank in order to benefit from the same tax policy as any professional investor has. Again, a wide range of private and direct ownership in business is important, and it promotes understanding of value creation and where our well-being comes from. It should be stimulated. I have noted that Soria Moria I contained some good wording on the importance of a broad, diverse ownership. They also said something about the importance of private life, and they focused on a certain balance. In Soria Moria II, this is gone. I guess that's an expression that the government doesn't see the significance of diversity. This government has doubled the taxation of working capital or ownership. The concentration against state and foreign ownership is strong in Norway. We should do the opposite. A rich state should focus on strengthening private ownership as well. The state can't take all the roles. The lack of private and diversified ownership in terms of a broad understanding of value creation, a range of possibilities for funding new ideas and projects across the country, cannot be replaced by state simplicity and governance. DnB NOR’s smartness in product development should result in the prompt introduction of CLASS and give the small man the opportunity to benefit from the exemption model. It will strengthen our well-being and help ensure future well-being. I look forward to constructive dialogue and, in fact, I know that the Minister of Finance has signalled that this should be assessed in the context of tax reform. Nevertheless, I look forward to the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1524	It is an important theme to be put on the agenda. It is clear that the tax system has an impact on production, innovation and innovation. After all, if we go back a few years, to the 1992 tax reform, some of the purpose of the tax reform was to build up under new investment, build up under production and value creation in Norway. This occurred primarily through a broad tax base and low rates. That one had reduced the operating tax to 28 pst., was an important part of that operation. But it's about far more than that. Value creation is about wages, it is about dividends, and not least about economic policy at large. It is positive that employees are given increased influence and responsibility for their own business. There are different laws that contribute to this, both the company law and the work environment law. It is even such that the right to work and the right to influence are included in the Constitution § 110. It is true that the provisions on participation are to be laid down by law. These are laws that give employees influence over the company by virtue of being employed. For me, it is an important political principle that work itself should also provide a basis for influence. In other words, it is not just ownership and capital that should give rise to influence in the enterprise. It is positive when employers suggest that employees can have holdings in the enterprise. We have an arrangement today with the sale of shares at a discount to employees. Many enterprises practice it, and this contributes to increased ownership of employees. I myself have been the director of a company where it was an important part of the work in connection with stock expansions and other things, that employees could use that arrangement. There are self-regulations on tax exemptions for such purchases and, of course, changes in the amount limits are a discussion that one must take in connection with the budget. It is important that we have a tax system that generally stimulates innovation, value creation and jobs. And as I said, I think that we are doing the best through broad tax bases and low tax rates. It is probably no secret that finance ministers — perhaps even finance ministers of different political colours — have a particular eye on schemes that can help complicate the tax system, which can contribute to wrong investments and thus, over time, lower value creation. I also see that it is argued that the taxation of personal shareholders creates locking effects and unfair discrimination between shareholders who own shares directly and shareholders who own them through an investment company. The Aktionarföreningen has, in cooperation with Oslo Børs and the Swedish Securities Centre, drawn up a proposal for a share-saving arrangement for personal shareholders, which shall also provide deferred tax to personal shareholders, provided that the return on investments is held in a closed savings account. Such a person has designed the taxation of shareholders, the time when he is taxed has a minor impact on the overall taxation of such an investment. But I see that getting a deferred tax at the beginning can be a liquidity advantage, but over time one does not escape the tax burden. I think that's an important point. A shareholder that owns shares directly will be taxed on an ongoing basis for its share income. For many taxpayers it will be an advantage, I think, to finish paying the tax early. In some cases it is not certain that it is so beneficial to collect taxes, because at some point the tax has to be paid. This shareholder also receives a shielding discount in future returns if those funds are reinvested in shares. In other words, the result is that there is little role to play in the overall tax burden on shares owned directly or through an investment company. As the interpellant was involved, during the spring we will present an evaluation of the tax reform. Then we will consider different aspects of the shareholder tax, including. the proposal for a share savings account for personal taxpayers. Then, of course, we'll see if such a proposal has a good reason in the Norwegian tax system, and whether it can be implemented in line with our international commitments. In principle, I have to say that I am somewhat skeptical about introducing schemes that can provide large, latent tax liabilities, such as this scheme, precisely because the tax has to be paid at some point in time. As I said at the outset, tax is one of several factors that matter how attractive a country is to invest in. These include political stability, infrastructure, technology, access to skilled labour, good markets, trust between different actors, trust between social partners, etc. The most important thing for future value creation is that a responsible and predictable budgetary policy should be pursued, and, fortunately, there is a broad consensus in the Storting that there should be a high level of predictability of economic policy. There is much to say for confidence in investing in a country and for confidence in investing in companies in that country. In general, Norway is considered a good country and a good country to invest in and operate in. This is confirmed by industry itself and by various studies comparing framework conditions for business in Norway and other countries. We're in eighth place on the World Bank 'Doing Business' ranking -- we're the number eight of 183 countries. Of the Nordic countries, only Denmark ranks ahead of Norway. The tax system scores very high in the ‘Paying tariffs’ survey, on burden burdens and the complexity of the tax system in sending tax-related tasks to public authorities. This shows that Norway scores high, and that is something that we must also take with us. Of course, that type of study should always be interpreted with caution, because there are many aspects of the methods and factors included in such studies. However, to conclude, taxation is one part of the framework conditions for business. Ownership is important, but there are also a wide range of other factors that will affect investment in future business in Norway. As stated, when the 2006 tax reform evaluation comes, the Ministry will also address the issues raised by the interpellant, including any proposals to establish a special share-saving account in line with the interpellant’s wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1545	I thank you for a thorough and good answer. Much of that can be said to be agreed. I share much of the Council's philosophy about this with locking effects and such things. For the purpose of collecting taxes. With the arrangements you had in the past, DU schemes and stuff like that, you had the opportunity to live on the tax credits in advance, and we're not going back to that. The advantage of this arrangement is to lock in the entire amount. You lock in both the savings and the tax, and you get the liquidity effect, which the Council of State had in mind. I am not so afraid of it, because that means that once you have to withdraw money from the account, the money will also be available to pay the tax you have to pay. So it's a completely different system than what you're used to from the 1990s. I think the 1992 tax reform is very good. The focus was on value creation, but the drama of the development of ownership is quite great. I got the Stortinges Investigation Section to go through this. From 1999 to 2010, the proportion of Oslo Børs owned by individuals has declined from about 10 %. 8 pst. to 4 pst. and owned by private enterprises have fallen from 34 pst. For approx. 20 pst. Over a period of just over ten years, there is a rather dramatic deterioration in the private share of the listed ownership in Norway. As I was in it, I think having a focus on the strength of diversity in relation to future value creation, funding the new ideas and creating the new jobs is absolutely central. We can all agree that Norway is a very good country to live in. We're at the top of welfare in the world, but it also gives us the challenge that, as I said, we have to "out-innovate and out-perform" the rest of the world at most in terms of economics. There I have a basic belief that diversity is the only thing that really makes the selection criteria good. Then it's a paradox that we seem to stimulate games through Norwegian Typing more than we stimulate private ownership. Now I'm not going to say anything wrong about Norsk Tipping – it's in Hedmark – but building up a broad understanding out in the Norwegian community of value creation has a lot to do with spreading power, and it has to do with spreading understanding of how to maintain our position in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1558	Then the next post also goes to a pagan representative, State Council Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1561	And even a former director of Norwegian Typing, so I'm glad that the representative of Gundersen kind of took care of it. It is a good business for Norway, and it is a good business for Hedmark. But we can do more on a bilateral basis. What is essentially important from my point of view is that taxes are important for ownership, but ownership must be something more than tax deductions and tax arrangements. It's important to me. There are different types of owners, and there are different types of investors. This may be a long and historic debate, but sometimes I miss owners who have a pure industrial approach to ownership, where creating new products is an important driving force for this ownership. My point is basically that yes, tax is important, but there are also other aspects and driving forces in ownership that need to be cultivated and that are important. So the composition of the ownership of Oslo Børs has changed. There's a lot of reasons for that. One important reason is that, at least over the last 10–15 years, we have become much more well-informed in the global economy, which, of course, means getting more investors to Norway. It may be related to people looking at Norway as a good country to invest in when they see it from abroad, while Norway has also become a significant owner of international companies during that period. So one has to keep it in mind. Scattered ownership is important, I agree with it. But maybe something even more important is that you have a diversity in business, that you have good business. Experience from the financial crisis also shows that when Norway left relatively cheaper than some other countries, it was due to a very widespread and good economic structure. So there's several things going into this picture. Let me say that this is an important debate. It's an interesting debate about taxes, but it's also about taking great care of the economy, it's about taking care of competitiveness, it's about continuing the good experiences we have with tripartite cooperation, that's an approach on a broader front. So maybe a little heartache in the end – back to Hedmark: The need to create good ownership environments in different ways and the need to produce good and competent board members is also part of the work of creating a broad and well-established ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1576	The working party believes it is positive that employees are given increased influence and responsibility for their own company. As the Minister of Finance pointed out, there are different laws that contribute to it, including: company law, the Working Environment Act and the Tax Act. A key objective of the 2006 tax reform was to ensure a greater level of fiscal equal treatment of persons at the same level of income, regardless of how income was earned. We are committed to a broad, transparent and fair tax base. There was broad agreement on this principle in Stortinget when the tax reform was discussed. Furthermore, attention was paid to the need for tax rules to reflect actual economic conditions, and there was a cross-political agreement that there was a need for significant restrictions in previous legislation, for example. benefits in kind. In line with this, a number of restrictions were made, such as: in the case of shares at a discount. The starting point of the Tax Act is now that all benefits from an employer that constitute a private benefit shall be considered taxable profit of the employee. This is important for a fairest and easily understandable tax system. Moreover, the broad tax base is essential to keep the formal tax rates low and to ensure that the tax system has a stabilising effect when fluctuations occur in the economic cycle. The more exceptions and special arrangements we make, the less transparent the system becomes. A share purchased at a sub-price represents an economic advantage for the employee and should be equal to cash pay. Consequently, one should not introduce rules that allow shares and options to be used for remuneration mainly because they provide significantly lower or deferred taxes. Furthermore, favourable tax rules for the purchase of shares by employees may result in wide discrimination between taxpayers who receive the offer of such remuneration and those who do not. Such an increase in tax subsidies — if we can call it that — open up the possibility of remunerating a limited group of workers with tax-friendly schemes. It's primarily, I think, high pay that has great economic benefits associated with options and shares in employment. But I recognize that there are exceptions here. I think it's great with arrangements that involve all employees. But more generally, we know that the higher the salary you initially have, the more likely you are to have other benefits paid in whole or in part by the company you work in. Tax-free discounts on the acquisition of shares can therefore be expected to become a large-scale offer used by employees with a good economy, rather than by the usual employee. Then you get a tax relief with bad distribution effects, and it's not a development that I want. In the Workers' Party, of course, we are very concerned with value creation, but we are also concerned that the discussion of value creation does not always have to be about tax cuts and impaired income in the community. I think value creation is so much about investing in knowledge, research and innovation. It is about making simplifications for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's about upgrading infrastructure. It is about state investment and facilitation in energy, shipping, fishing and aquaculture. It is even about more active state ownership, and not least – as the Minister of Finance of the grades in which it was – it is about keeping the economy in order to ensure its competitiveness. This I believe is an answer to the question of how we can facilitate increased value creation in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1593	It is with a certain irony and a little paradoxical that I thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. But I'll come back to that. So, I want to thank the interpellant, I just want to underline it. Ownership in your own company helps to make each employee more involved, more involved and more willing to stand on, simply because you have an economic added value through the success of the enterprise. Earning the company's money, the reward is not only to keep the job, perhaps combined with a centrally negotiated crown supplement, but actually direct financial compensation from the higher valuation of the company on the stock exchange and through the payment of profits through dividends, and greater influence. Thus, even though the Council of State stated that it is possible to decide that employees should have influence, ownership is undoubtedly a much more effective instrument if they want to influence the company. Private ownership is a win-win situation for the enterprise and its employees, while providing less room for public governance, interference and control. We sometimes experience a government that throws away private ownership – not everyone in the government, but some members of the government do it clearly – while the same government buys more and more shares on Oslo Stock Exchanges and the world's stock exchanges. But recently the prime minister radically changed the rhetoric, and the embrace of capitalists and business owners during the party's national government meeting a few days ago was damp, but joyous. It is to hope that the Prime Minister's rhetoric becomes a policy. The progress party promises to follow what the government does, and not what it says it should do. What about e.g. to establish an objective – this is a call for the Minister of Finance – to double private ownership of Oslo Børs and to launch policies that can achieve this goal. The exemption method allows a large investor to establish a holding company in which all dividends flow with minimal taxation. In the case of an investment of large amounts, the investor may charge large amounts without a dividend tax, because even a low protection rate may result in large amounts. For example, give a display interest rate of 2 pst. You'll get an investment of 100 million. kr could take out 2 million. kr without dividend tax. So you can live quite well on the tax-free million if you're being medicated in the first place. It is a great paradox that a large investor is given such good conditions in the tax system, while a small shareholder is not given a similar opportunity. This was a problem for the Progress Party, the rest of the Stortinget pointed out in the context of the 2004 tax reform, a reform that otherwise had the intention of introducing dividend taxes in exchange for taxes on wealth, but where we ended up with both parts, perhaps the President has an in-depth knowledge of. From the setting I would like to quote the following: ‘These members’ — i.e. members of the Progress Party — ‘would point out that the shareholder model may be difficult to calculate for taxpayers. For small investors in particular, this will be a great deal of effort for small amounts.’» And on the other hand, ‘These members point out the possibility for personal shareholders to adapt by making their investments through a holding company. As long as the profits are reinvested through the holding company, one can accumulate assets in the holding company and only collect tax-free dividends. For small savers, such adaptation is, of course, a resource-intensive solution, and this is an advantage for those already involved. In this context, a minimum deduction for lower share income should be considered.» It was only the Progress Party that joined that note. But it's all the more important to look forward to it. So how are we going to eliminate this discrimination and make it equally fiscally attractive to small shareholders? To correct yesterday's error, the interpellant mentions the introduction of the CLASS model. CLASS stands for Long-term saving accounts and the idea is to give retail investors the same terms and conditions as the large investors have through the exemption method. CLASS is a device consisting of a dedicated bank account with a corresponding security account in a closed system without share capital and without formal requirements relating to business registers, accounting records and audit obligations. An identification number shall be given to each device allowing for tax separation from any other securities of the saver. The exemption method will be applied as for limited liability companies, i.e. the saver does not pay taxes on profits or dividends until the amount is removed from CLASS. So the Progress Party is not as concerned as the Minister of Finance is that one has to pay the tax once. We look at the kind of attitude that's a little more exemplary, and we actually believe that the individual is able to plan his own economy and his own future without the state being overruled. The key is that the saver will thus have the opportunity to reinvest the funds by buying new securities, without having to pay taxes on the gain in the first place. Administration and reporting are carried out by the account holder, typically the trustee’s trust fund manager or bank. If CLASS is dissolved and the saver has realised a loss, the saver will be deducted from the loss. The Progress Party is open to improvements in the system and believes that the CLASS model can contribute to making share investments more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1625	The President may have to draw attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure set certain limits on how meaningful dialogue can be with the President on tax matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1628	Then I'm going to abstain from discussions with the president about this, even though he probably has an in-depth knowledge of it. There is a debate at the moment about the ownership of the Norwegian welfare model and why we are there. I think it's more interesting, as the interpellant picks up today, to talk about what we're going to live on in the future and how we're going to produce the value creation that's going to facilitate the future welfare community. Then I think the tens of thousands of Norwegian small businesses are important in this context. I noticed that the prime minister at the National Government Meeting in the Workers' Party used some of the richest people in the country as an example of how good it is to run business in this country, and how far you can drive it. I don't know if the small business owners think it's just as well-chosen. When the council here says that he would like us not to discuss so much tax in terms of the framework conditions for business, and that he wants the reindeer industrialists, I have to say that there are tens of thousands of reindeer industrialists around this country who do not run their businesses to become rich, but to employ a few people in their own business. That is the truth, and there is no contradiction between the way business is done and the fact that property taxes have a significant impact. It is obvious that when you take money out of the company to pay dividends, you weaken the company and then have to increase its performance. I agree that ownership is about something more. Among other things, as the Council of State says, it is about the Working Environment Act. We've been given a good example of that lately. In fact, hiring a new employee in a small enterprise is one of the biggest investments you ever make. In the State, temporary employment is possible. We've seen that lately, but when it comes to discussing this for private companies, it's shut down for ideological reasons. I also believe that partnership and better framework conditions for buying shares in my own company are incredibly important. Opheim was in on this, but it's clear that the frames we have at the moment are completely antiquarian. They're not adapted to modern life at all. There is no doubt, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde suggested, that you get a completely different ‘drive’, a completely different effort, in companies that the employees own. So I'd like to talk a little bit about the CLASS model, which people have been into. The finance minister says he might come up with something, but at the same time he says he doesn't like people collecting taxes, and that's probably reasonable by a finance minister. However, in the exemption model that exists for limited liability companies, significant taxes are collected. There are also non-taxed funds that will have to be taxed at some point. There has been a good arrangement, not least because investment is going out again in the business world. We can go to agriculture. There are several schemes in which the tax is deferred. Tax credits are incredibly important, and it's not as simple as the Minister of Finance says, that this is just gathering a commitment. It is a question of who will in the meantime dispose of the money. Is the State Council Sigbjørn Johnsen in the Ministry of Finance, or is it the individual investor who is holding his small account in the CLASS model, and where does the amount gradually increase? He puts the money into his own company, into the neighbour's company, into one or other company listed on Oslo Børs, and the business community benefits from it, instead of being in the somewhat more anonymous state fund, and how some of us question whether it was no more useful that each one had the right to dispose of them. Good luck with the CLASS model!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1644	It is an important theme that will be addressed — a theme of private, personal ownership in relation to innovation, value creation and jobs. It is a theme that has been very close to the heart of the Central Party, both today, historically and otherwise. We have two types of companies, maritime business, individual companies, and the unlisted companies with many personal owners, which are really at the heart of what we are talking about here. So we're talking about companies where people in many cases put in both capital and labour, and a better combination we haven't invented, at least not in the opinion of the Center Party. Interpellation is based on the company Veileck. It's a company that's special in the entrepreneurial sector just because the employees have a big ownership. Ordinary employees have about 15 pst. of the shares, Obos has 28 pst. And central leaders have 13.5 pst., as far as I'm familiar with it. So employees have significant ownership. The employees are in the company for a long time, which gives stability, and it is a company that has good dialogue with employees and also with the trade union movement. A solid culture of working life has been built over time, despite the fact that they have experienced scandals related to price cooperation on asphalt recently. They stand for a culture that, according to the view of the Centre Party, is good. With regard to the framework conditions for business, on which the Minister of Finance was involved, in relation to innovation, in relation to the long-term, in relation to the major challenges, there are many areas, and tax is one of them. It is the central party’s clear view that we want greater private, personal ownership. On the other hand, we are not in favour of doing so by stimulating increased remuneration in the form of shares and options at a discount, but we are committed to reviewing and evaluating the tax reform – the extent to which small savers can get better terms, as many have experienced, in relation to larger personal investors. And as many have been concerned: it is easy to focus on the large, personal investors and to a lesser extent on the framework conditions of entrepreneurs and small savers, on whom the Right was in, and not least that it is also among the environments of those degrees that are industrial owners. It is industrial owners in the sense that there are competent persons who have an interest in the degree of business activity being run. There's something great about it. With regard to the proposal from the Right on what is called CLASS, I must admit that I have more knowledge of the caretaker Claas than of the Long-term Saving Accounts. But when you're a student, we're also going to look at new brands, and when it comes to having a system of a stock savings account with a closed savings account taxed on withdrawal, it's no surprise that this representative has experience in other areas of good luck. The fact that a tax is levied on withdrawals, that the entire amount is held in a blocked account, should, of course, be reassuring to the public, and this will contribute to a longer-term participation, which will have positive effects. What is seen in the economic field as a problem in terms of the redemption of profits and returns, probably does not see the centre party as the main problem under the present unstable conditions, which predominate the business world. That is why we think this is an interesting proposal to which the Council of State was also concerned. But it is important that we now make an evaluation that ensures that there is a level playing field in the relationship between the different types of company, and where we need to be aware that those who choose to set up businesses in the form of individual enterprises have an unlimited risk, i.e. a greater responsibility. If there is a difference, it should be for the benefit of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1657	I want to commend the inter-pellant who has taken the initiative for a very important debate. In summary, it is about how we can make Norwegian citizens invest more in Norwegian businesses and jobs rather than in even more cabins, houses, cars and boats. I perceive that it is really a wish that we all share, but that only some parties are willing, through political means, to do something about, if there has not been a paradigm shift in the Workers' Party. The left noted the Prime Minister's speech to the National Government of the Workers' Party, where he spoke warmly about value creation and the success of business. It remains to be seen in practical policy. So far, through a number of changes in the tax system, the government has made it more and more advantageous to invest in housing and consumables than in enterprises and jobs. The government has gradually reduced and finally removed the stock discount, which was a targeted tool to increase private ownership of Norwegian businesses and favour investment in jobs. The government has made a sharp increase in the valuation of shares in the inheritance tax, making a generational shift in family-owned enterprises more difficult and expensive. The government and the government parties have opposed any proposal from the opposition to strengthen private ownership in Norwegian business, whether specifically occupied by the interpellant, the ability of employees to own their own business, or different proposals and schemes relating to the angels' or tax advantages of so-called business with regard to capital and knowledge of new Norwegian business. Norwegian companies need good owners who provide financial resources, networks, market access and competences. The left will ensure Norwegian ownership of the business sector by strengthening the private spread of ownership. This should be done through the gradual winding-up of the extraordinary property tax and by a greater proportion of private ownership in many wholly owned state-owned companies. An important distinction between civil and socialist policies is, as the Left sees it, precisely the relationship with business. Think of the thousands of small business owners in the country getting the feeling of a thank you for giving work and income to a dozen people, often with very long working days and moderate profits! For the Left, the freedom to become its own head, to create and develop its own, is a value in itself, but it is also crucial for the well-being and prosperity of the entire society. Without such freedom within the framework of a regulated and functioning market economy, society will stagnate, as we have seen in all attempts at socialism. Innovation, creativity, technological innovation, not least in the service of the environment, depend on policies that support and recognise entrepreneurs and private owners. Without Norwegian private owners who want to invest their own money in new jobs in Norway, society will be confused over time. We must not let that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1676	I thank you for the debate, and what I see in particular as positive signals, in particular Lundtigen's speeches and previous signals from the Minister of Finance that this will be carefully assessed. What's sad is that SV hasn't gone to the pulpit. Here it's a lot about what you do, and not what you say. It should be done very well to stand on the pulpit and say that you are negative to the creation of value and negative to Norwegian ownership. I don't think anyone does. But once again, that's a little bit of what you do. That's probably where I'm left with the big question mark. We know that we have a tax system that discriminates against Norwegian private ownership, and we discriminate in particular against the small, Norwegian private shareholder. That's what's the challenge. Here we're going to be very careful about what's going on in the future, and I can be a little bit bad, because, as Opheim said, you're very concerned with value creation. As I said, it's no surprise. You want jobs, of course. But I think a lot of the government's policy suggests that you don't want the owner, and you don't want the capital behind. It's an impossible combination, especially when it's going to create a new business. And then you're actually assuming equity. It's a prerequisite for innovation. It's a debate that I think is often taken too easy, when you say you're so concerned with value creation. I'm recording a lot of positive signals. It's not surprising. But once again, I want to evaluate it based on what you're actually doing, and the results of what you're doing. It is a worrying trend that we significantly weaken the private side of ownership in Norway. It goes beyond districts, and it goes beyond Norway centrally. I fully agree with everyone who says that we should not be afraid of foreign ownership, but we must be concerned that we must have a Norwegian private ownership that can compete with that ownership. Then we have a healthy development. That's what I wanted to lead the debate into. I don't think we're done with that after today's interpellation, either. I look forward to that debate continuing and will follow closely what you do, and not what you say.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1685	The President wants to add: or possibly both!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1688	I agree with the latter. It is true that work, value creation, is the basis both for personal and collective well-being. Those who will undertake a more in-depth study of Norwegian social democracy and Norwegian labour movement will see that it is a basis throughout our history. This means that we believe private ownership is good, private ownership is welcome. That you have good and long-term owners in businesses is good, but you should also have demanding owners. That is why I am concerned that we are also focusing on having good and competent board members, who can make good demands on behalf of the owners, and on those boards the employees will also be involved. So it's, to put it that way, a myth someone's trying to say that the Workers' Party and the Labour Movement are not obsessed with private ownership. It's important. However, the diversity of ownership is also important, and it is also important to have strong state ownership in some important areas. Then there was also a visit to the Prime Minister's posts at the National Government Meeting of the Workers' Party. Yes, there was a little visit to some “big” capitalists. However, the Prime Minister’s posts also included a very good and nice mention of the backbone of Norwegian business, and that is the diversity of small and medium-sized enterprises. If you look at both the number, the value creation and the number of employees, there's no doubt that that spine is important to all of us. So building up under ownership and value creation also in small and medium-sized enterprises is an important part of this government's policy. I also want to show that big things have happened with the property tax. In the last five years, therefore, 900 000 have either been removed from the property tax or have received lower taxes on wealth. In 2005, it was 34 pst. Of the taxes that had taxes on wealth – now there are 17 p.m., and I am absolutely sure that among those who have had a reduction in taxes on wealth, there are many owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is important to keep it with them in this discussion. I also think this has been a good debate, and I can promise the inter-pellant and others that there will also be a good debate on these issues in the evaluation of tax reform. So the conclusion is that we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1701	The examination of case No. So 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1715	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1724	This issue concerns changes to the Road Traffic Act resulting from the implementation of Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences – the Driving Licence Directive. In these days, there is a high level of political focus and attention on EU directives, but it is probably quite different from the driving licence directive that gets that attention. The majority agreed in 2008 to implement the Directive in Norwegian law. The aim of the Directive is to further harmonise the driving licence rules in Europe for, inter alia: to improve road safety, to facilitate free movement and establishment and to counter fraud involving driving licences. Only the Directive’s administrative validity requirements for driving licences and requirements for driving test sensors lead to legal changes. The general rule for the administrative validity of the third driving licence directive for driving licences is 10 years for the light driving licence categories, while driving licences in heavy categories are given administrative validity for five years. The requirement for heavy-duty vehicles has already been implemented in Norway. Administrative validity must not be confused with the validity of the entitlement. Administrative validity means that it is the card itself – the proof of entitlement – that has a certain period of validity, for the licence to have up-to-date images and safety elements to prevent driving licence fraud, and that Member States are to be able to impose health investigations or other measures. The Driving Licence Directive also lays down minimum requirements for basic qualification, quality assurance and re-training of driving test sensors. The purpose is to increase the competence of those assessing the driving tests. These requirements will ensure correct decisions and non-discrimination to an even greater extent than at present, which is positive for road safety. Among other things, driving test sensors cannot at the same time be active as traffic instructors. The Committee therefore welcomes the proposed changes to the Road Traffic Act and considers that they will contribute to improving road safety. As I said, the Directive has a general rule on the administrative validity of driving licences, which is ten years for the light driving licence categories and five years for the heavy. The requirement for heavy-duty vehicles has already been implemented. The proposed amendment of the law requires administrative validity to be laid down in the regulation. Whether this becomes 10 years, 12 years or 15 years, the majority of the committee has not opted for. There will be a professional assessment and an assessment of the appropriateness of the department and the directorate. That is why I believe that the Progress Party itself justifies its minority proposal. The setting contains some interesting comments from the Progress Party and the Right on the privatisation of the driving tests that I cannot comment on. They want us to be able to take a driving test at driving schools, and they think it is a disadvantage for the public that the State Road Service is responsible for this today. I am pleased that the majority of the committee does not share this view. The majority are opposed to privatising the driving tests. We believe it is important to ensure high quality, non-discrimination and the same level of driving tests and believe that this can best be achieved by the same body, the State Road Service, being responsible throughout the country. It is important that this is the responsibility of people other than driving schools, to ensure distance between those who learn to drive away, and those who assess whether those who have learned away have done so well enough. We believe that this is best for road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1741	Let me first say that it is positive that we now have harmonised driving licence rules in Europe, precisely because there is a large and increasing traffic between Norway and the rest of Europe. Apart from the Tollvesen station on Svinesund, there are hardly any physical border crossings on European roads anymore. It is also very good that the Directive requires other countries to introduce driving licences in credit card format, which are more difficult to falsify. Many EU directives are quite flexible in terms of how each country must implement them, and we see time and again that the government is taking a more restrictive line than is necessary. Germany, Poland and Finland have chosen 15 years of administrative validity for light vehicle categories, in line with the maximum level of the Directive. Nevertheless, the government wants an administrative validity of 10 years for light driving licence categories. This is pointless. It is important to remember that we go from a situation where people in practice were given driving licences for the rest of their lives – which they still want – to a more limited time limit, because more often they have to replace the driving licence. Therefore, in this case, the Progress Party promotes a concrete proposal for 15 years of administrative validity for the light driving licence categories, and I hope that the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will be willing to reconsider their somewhat bombastic and uncompromising proposal, which is based on the most restrictive period of validity open by the Directive. I have registered that the department in the bill will give authority to make regulations. Let it be quite clear that the Party of Advancement is opposed to regulations that open up any abuse of power associated with, for example, the determination of autility. You shouldn't be able to take away a driving licence just because they have a party with a little high music in their own apartment, as was the case in a case where the prosecution authorities recently lost their law. Lack of abreastiness must mean that you are actually taken for driving in the drunk state e.l., i.e. driving conditions and driving licences. In the case of the Driver's Licence Directive, the Advance Party and the Right agree that it is necessary to take the driving test at driving schools approved for this purpose. Such a system could reduce the waiting time, the costs and the disadvantages of the state's monopoly on driving tests. Everyone knows that there is a long waiting time for a driving licence to be taken much of the year. The state road authority has left periodic driving control to workshops approved for this, and I think there is a system that has worked much better than the alternative. Here I think it will be fully possible for the Progress Party and the Right – in the spirit of cooperation – to come up with good solutions. The Progress Party is in favour of harmonising the provisions on driving licences, and I would like the government to be equally eager to achieve similar harmonisation in the area of vehicle approval. It's e.g. a major problem that popular and environmentally friendly European mini-vehicles are not recognised as vans in Norway. This is a question I also raised with the then Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen in 2009. It is also a problem that Norway has a different regime towards US-approved cars than other European countries. I am thinking about the provision in the approval directive on so-called alternative technical standards. I have addressed this with the State Council of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in a written question in December 2010. Norway is a small market for car manufacturers, and special Norwegian rules only bring difficulties and additional costs. I would like to take up the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the vote. I do not share the concern of the case rapporteur that private individuals should have a worse licence issue than the State Road Administration has today. I actually think that many driving schools can do this much better. That is why we also propose that some driving schools be allowed to arrange the driving test – precisely because I think they have the competence to do so in a way that is as good and traffic-proof as today’s system, where the state road service is the only one that has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1758	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1761	In order to implement the Driving Licence Directive, Directive 2006/126/EC, in Norwegian law, legislative amendments have been proposed in order to establish the basis of administrative validity for driving licences and qualification requirements for driving test sensors. The detailed rules for implementing the requirements of the Directive will be laid down in the Regulation. The aim is to harmonise the driving licence rules in Europe further in order to improve road safety, facilitate freedom of movement and establishment, as well as to counter fraud involving driving licences. By clarifying the distinction between the driver’s right and the actual proof of this right, the driver’s card, the proposed law allows for a more detailed rule on the administrative validity of driving licences. Administrative validity means that the driver card must be changed at certain intervals. Today's arrangement that the driver's card has been affixed to validity until the 100th anniversary falls. This way, you can make sure that images and security items are up-to-date, which in turn will make it harder to forge driver cards. The general rule of the Directive is that driving licences shall be valid for 10 years. However, the Member State may introduce a period of validity of up to 15 years. The case-speaker has done well, on behalf of a broad majority, the view that gives support to the Ministry's assessment of the design of the final regulation. Now let me say that my starting point is that when we're going to make changes here, we have to do it in a way that's simpler for the individual like this, with his driver's card, and for the government to handle this. Then the starting point in 15 years, i.e. to change something less than at 10 years, can seem reasonable. I will come back to it in the hearing proposal, and I will finally establish it when the regulation has been out to the ears. In any case, it means that the driver cards printed after 19 January 2013 are limited to validity. For driver cards printed before this date, a long transition period is added for phasing out. A single sensor system is also established throughout the country, which will be very important for non-discrimination and a qualitative assessment of the driving test. The Directorate-General for Roads will establish more detailed rules on basic qualifications, quality assurance and the training of driving test sensors. Let me also remind you that another important change in the regulations that may be worth noting is that the age limit for health certificates for the elderly is raised from 70 to 75 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1776	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 11–13 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[See page 2455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1817	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 75 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Council of State 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker was Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, on behalf of Susanne Bratli, who is the rapporteur on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1832	The issues we now have to deal with, the connection of the Storting to the development of three important trajectories in Finnmark, More and Romesdal and Vestfold, respectively, is a good illustration of red-green policies in practice. We're building the country. There has been a large local involvement around all three sections of the road, and many have worked for several years to finally experience this day when the Storting now gives a clear signal. The extension of E18 Gulli-Langanker to four-field road means that there will be a continuous four-field motorway on E18 from Oslo to Larvik. The stretch is an important part of the main trajectory between Oslo and Kristiansand and Stavanger, and it is one of the remaining bottlenecks on the route between Oslo and Larvik. There is high annual traffic on the route, and there has been a recurring problem with the E18 through Westfold. The expansion will mean that the progeny will be good. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Red-Green parties and the Christian People's Party point out that this development will contribute to increased road safety. On parts of the current two-way section of the route, a few years ago, a mid-carrier was built, and it has had a very positive impact on road safety. Now the whole route is given physically separate directions, and it will further increase road safety. I'm glad. New E39 between Astad and Knutset in the municipality of Gämnes in Møre and Romsdal will make E39 a safer and more efficient trajectory between Molde and Kristiansund. Today's road passes through the building, it is not a pedestrian and bicycle path, and the road is partly narrow and curved, with reduced speed limits. There is no doubt that there is a need for a new, modern road outside the construction of this route between Batnfjord and Gämnesundbrua. When the construction of a new E6 on the Møllnes–Kvenvik–Home Air section in Alta municipality is completed in 2013, the main trajectory into Finnmark will have a strong standard lift. The route is the main trajectory to and from Alta, with branches to, among others. Honningsvåg, Porsanger, Hammerfest, Kautokeino and Karasjok. If you've ever driven to Finnmark, you know that the way to Alta has a bad standard. It is narrow and swinging, and especially heavy transport wears winter time in steep hills. The route also has a high accident frequency and upgrading of the road will contribute to increased road safety. The government has designated the northern regions as its main strategic focus. Strengthening the infrastructure in the north is essential in order to make use of the potential of this resource-rich region. The Nordic states prioritised overall upgrading of E6 throughout the country as the most important measure in the current NTP, and therefore I am pleased that the development of this important route is now being realised. The overall expansion of E6 west of Alta is nearly 50 km, and the decision we are about to take today is an important milestone in this work. All three sections shall be financed on the one hand by government appropriations, and on the other by tolls on the other. This is also anchored by local decisions. Although there has been a debate and a dispute about the choice of funding solutions, the majority of them both locally and regionally – and the majority of them in this room, consisting of all the parties outside the Progress Party – have ended up going for a split-up between the state and the motorists. That way we'll all benefit from a new path in the past, and we're many who are happy about it. Last year we had the lowest number of traffic deaths in Norway since 1954. It shows that we are on the right track and that we are successful in road safety work. Road safety and road safety policy are a broad range of measures both for the road, for the road user and against the vehicle. And it's important that we do what works best, first. In this area, there's a lot of knowledge and research that tells us what's going on in order to move on. Through NTP, with an increase of 100 billion. kr during the period, with an increase in investments on the road by 80 pst. and with a strong increase in operation and maintenance, the government and the red-green lots are responsible for action on the road network. But it'll never be enough to do everything. That's why it's important to do what works best. These three road projects we are dealing with today are all contributing to improving road safety in their areas, although some are built with middle parts and some are built without. Let me say: the working party is to build middle parts on the most trafficked roads and on the roads with most meeting accidents. But the middle parts aren't the only solution or always the best solution. On low-traffic roads, meeting accidents are often not the challenge, because the chances of hitting a car in the opposite lane may be small. Then it is more important to do something about the lateral terrain, more important to sort out curves and more importantly with other less road safety measures. We believe today's road standards with a requirement for ADT of 8 000 vehicles before construction of a parking lot, are too square. This has been addressed by the Red-Green parties with the Minister of Transport, and we know that she has set in motion a process in which one considers changing this. The focus on road safety is important and good, but to present it as if middle-parties are the answer to all the challenges, as individual batches do, we disagree, and we point out that the Storting should deal with road safety in a broader context through an inter-pelling debate on 10 March and that we have two representative proposals for consideration in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1862	The representative Bjørnflaten said this government is building. But it also sends the bill to completely different people. The three projects on the E6 route Møllnes–Kvenvik–Home Air in Alta, E39 Astad–Knutset in Gemnes and E18 Gulli–Langåker are three incredibly important projects that it is very important to put in place. The Progress Party wholeheartedly supports all three projects, but I still want to point out some aspects. Firstly, the financial envelope for the three projects is almost 3.3 billion in total. kr. In the proposition, it's so neat, and it looks so nice that it's just right over 2 billion. kr which shall be tolls. But this is just a small part of the truth, because in addition, the funding costs are going to be 971 million. NOK and a total of 367 million. I only want to collect the money. That means 1,338 million. kr shall be used without becoming a single metre of new road. This is nothing but a waste of the car's money. The big paradox is that we have no need whatsoever to borrow the money to expand the infrastructure in our country, yes, even the Prime Minister has said several times from the pulpit here in this room. But it seems that you still have to choose the expensive solution and skin Norwegian drivers. The money is currently running into a much higher pace than was foreseen just a few months ago. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is preferable to use parts of these revenues to build infrastructure without throwing money out of the window to finance both high borrowing rates and expensive collection costs. These three cases are unfortunately good examples of drivers paying more in tolls and collection costs than the entire financial framework for all three projects. In the case of E18 Gulli-Langåker, this is a very long-term project that has been called for several times, both because people have been impatient, and because it has been promised to start much earlier both by this government, in particular, by this Council of State and by the previous Council of State. The Progress Party is very pleased that the project is finally coming, and this will mean a major improvement in the flow of traffic on the route. The project will involve a four-field motorway from Oslo to Bommestad in the municipality of Larvik, although it will be almost 40 years after Bratteli's 1962 motorway plan provided that the route was to be completed. But for this government, it's that it's better late than never. I record that the government and the state council are constantly bragging about their commitment to the development of the road network. Yes, it would have been okay if it was the state that had granted the money, but here the drivers will pay 350 million. kr more in tolls than the cost of building projects. At best, it's kind of like saying that it's the government that's building up the roads. As everyone knows, four-field motorways reduce the accidents by 80 to 90 pst, so this expansion will also be an important road safety measure and help to keep you saying that you are working to approach the zero vision. As regards the development of E6 in Alta, the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen will explain more about our views on this matter. However, I would like to point out that, at the latest in connection with the Questionnaire on 2 February of this year, the Council of State Kleppa stated: ‘It is thus a historical fact that Sweden built a wider road 30 years ago and that it is easier for them to roll out middle parts. It is such that where we now build middle parts, we are either on the new road or we actually have to expand the road." Yes, we made a lot of mistakes 30 years ago, but my question is: why should we make the same mistakes again today? Didn't we learn from old mistakes? I'm actually wondering a lot about that. On the new E39 between Astad and Knutset in the municipality of Gämnes in Møre and Romsdal, there are estimated to be 2,820 vehicles per day in 2030, and according to road standards there is a requirement for a 1 metre-wide centre marking between the lanes for roads with ÅDT over 4000 vehicles. When we know that traffic estimates are mostly too low, it is quite possible that there will actually be over 4,000 cars in the future. Then it will be very short-term to build a narrow road that cannot easily be upgraded in the future, and this is a good example of the government's short-term thinking in the transport sector. Yes, I understand the traffic figures speak against. But should we not build new European roads or national roads with a focus on road safety, with a centre line between the lanes or with the middle parts, in order to avoid making the same mistakes as 30 years ago? Because there's no doubt that it'll cost a fraction to do this now relative to what it'll cost once in the future. We've seen a lot of examples of that. According to road standards, national roads, or former tribal roads, with ÅDT from 0 to 4000 shall have no road safety measures in addition to the construction of the road. According to the regulations, it says that: ‘vehicle is constructed according to the S2 dimensional class. This corresponds to a two-field road with a road width of 8,5 m divided by two lanes of 3,25 m and two road shoulders of 1 m. In road normal conditions, physical middle parts are not required until the ÅDT exceeds 8000 vehicles. For roads with ÅDT over 4000 vehicles, a 1 m wide centre marking is required between the lanes.» The Progress Party believes that these criteria are too high and need to be adjusted downwards, so that we have multiple routes of road safety measures that help minimise the consequences of an accident for those affected. For the Progress Party, it is important that midway sections are set up on sections which are subject to accidents, regardless of whether traffic is 2000 or 4000, 6000 or 8,000 cars per day. The most important thing is actually to make sure that you save lives, and that you have roads that are safe and safe to drive on. I would therefore like to address our proposals in the cases and refer to our two additional proposals in case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2 reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that the new European road is being built with a mid pulley and so that a call-out vehicle can pass. State financing of the additional costs is included in the final age of the State budget for 2011.’» And proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government is asking for changes in road standards by reducing the requirement for day-to-day traffic so that important road safety measures such as middle parts, wide centre marking and 3- or 4-field roads become applicable on more projects than today in the construction of new roads or the improvement of existing roads.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1906	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposals he referred to, and the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1909	The right heart supports all the projects that are now to be launched in different parts of the country. We think it is commendable that local and regional authorities take the initiative to launch these projects. We can say that it's really a state responsibility, at least a large part of this. When the representative Hoksrud mentions this with the cost of funding, it is, of course, true, but now it is the case that we have not managed to get any other way of financing this in Norway. Our fraction was visiting Denmark last week, and we then got a glimpse that in Denmark the state takes the guarantee, i.e. that the contracting entity can use the State guarantee here to bring the interest rate rate rate down to about half of what you find in the market. We would have appreciated it very much if the state could also figure out how to do it here in Norway. We understood that the Minister for Transport earlier stated that she was willing to look at other forms of funding – at least the kind of funding that does not cost the state so much money, but that is just a guarantee that it is unlikely to end up in payments from the state. As regards the route Møllnes-Kvenvik on E6 in Finnmark, the Committee visited this area last year and then with its own eyes that that route requires a strong upgrade. So we're very happy about what's happening there. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also tabled an additional proposal, proposal No. 3, which is based on a desire to reduce the requirement for daily traffic in order to provide road safety measures. We wholeheartedly support that. We think it is a very good proposal, and we also heard that the case-rapporteur was sympathetic to such an approach. If you set a daily traffic target today that you think is right in relation to what is needed in terms of traffic, it is that the day the road is finished, traffic has increased, and you have come to a completely different level. Therefore, it is sometimes necessary — linked to this — to look both five and ten years ahead in time for the kind of standard road. Gulli-Langåker, E18, is also a very important project. We have recorded in the past that this has been a very unfortunate stretch with many deaths – quite disastrous, we have to say it. We see that the expansions that have been made lately have reduced the accidents on the new routes. It's very good, so we're happy with the expansion that's coming there as well. The section Astad-Knutset: Like the rapporteur, we are also pleased that this will be a complete extension – together with Knutset and Högset. After all, the E39 is a very important year of traffic, especially for business. Both in More and Romesdal and north and south of More and Romesdal, it is very important. That's where we're really looking for that way to get ready. By the way, there's a lot of other sections of E39 that we'd like to have expanded. Many of us noticed headlines in the media yesterday that heavy transport going from Stavanger up to Sogn and Fjordane is actually going via Oslo because it's too expensive to drive the outer highway, i.e. E39. There is something that I think the authorities should look at. Otherwise, we are very concerned about road safety, and now the rapporteur said that middle-parties were not the answer to all the problems. No, that's right, but you know how well it answers a lot of problems! We know that accidents happen in many ways, but the fatal accidents happen in front collisions. And that's what you essentially avoid by having middle parts. We heard the other day that the Swedes are also building the middle parts on a nine-metre-wide road. Whether or not to become a standard in Norway, the Council of State has to assess, but in any case: Centres save lives, without doubt. So I want to conclude that the Right fully supports all of these projects and is happy that they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1928	When we in the Transport Committee travel around the country and the beach – and that is my second period there – it is clear that there are huge demands, because everyone is missing a road trip or something on racial protection or whatever it may be. And it's about hundreds of billions of dollars that people charge where they live. But there's only one party that, no matter where one happens, has money for absolutely every project. I have never heard the Progress Party say no to a single road project anywhere, so they have the account full to just put on, and they have the workers to come and do the job. All of this accumulates the need for labour, and it will lead to crazy price increases. But the reason why they do that is because they want to keep the choices for themselves. If the Progress Party's policy had been implemented – for which there is no plurality – the party would not have built one meter by road with the policy they stand for, because they will be pure-haired in the toll policy and say no, the state will pay everything. Zero meters would have gotten it off. The step-by-step game trickles the voters with this tactic. But then it's like some from the Progress Party actually build roads, and they're on the compromises that are necessary to get something built – they're not just raising the blue tab, waving with her, saying: Look, they get everything they're pointing at from me. But they're actually doing practical things, they're building up public transport. In Oslo one even spends tolls on public transport – not just to unroll asphalt. But that's when the Progress Party has power. Then they're on compromise, and then they're on the way to building the country. Now they're just involved in creating a tough atmosphere around by promising things they can't hold. Same thing in the mountain area - Os. There is also a nice vocabulary that wants results. He collects tolls – drives by highway robbery and such things as the Progress Party thinks you're doing. But here's where one shouldn't build anything. Here, just a flag and fool the selections into thinking that one has money for all the projects around the country. When a person travels and sees, there's no doubt that the Progress Party will have to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to keep them up, they'll fool the voters. It's like SV can also be against some toll projects, but it's because we say we don't want that project, and then we don't need those tolls. Many road projects say no to SV, but they don't do the Progress Party, they say yes to everything. It would be much clearer if you had a slightly more nuanced profile on this. So obviously SV has also looked at the E6 in Alta. It's been slowing down. It was just before the whole expansion was stopped. But then, through some actions, we managed, among other things. by thinking about tolls and stuff, to get this thing going again. But she was about to stop. Had the Progress Party been running its line, the majority in Stortinget had stopped this expansion. There had been no expansion in Alta, with the profile of the Progress Party, and with the composition of the Stortinget. It's the result of a non-compromise, but it's the only thing that should be flagged clean. Finally, this pastime from the Progress Party on irresponsibility, so let me say: Roads in the districts are very important, and they're SV too, but we believe that as long as it is, we have to have our own funding. Now there are proposals for other ways to finance this, not least because the Westerners are so eager to get their projects that they have tolls behind each nose. I think that's a good idea, that we have to go in and look at other ways of financing. I expect that at least from the red-green fraction we will go into cooperation with the government and discuss other ways of financing. And one way that one does this in the EU is that a greater part of the toll collection is going to build a collective network. It is important for the country, and it is important for the world that we also take responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1943	So today, we're dealing with three propositions about three road projects that are on three of the main roads in the country. The E6, to which the rapporteur pointed out quite rightly, is in that part of the country where we have had a great deal of focus on E6 through the Northern Region initiative. It's the first project to join Finnmark on the E6, which is strongly long-awaited, as the Finnmarks say. There is a need, the Committee itself has seen, and there will be major changes to that project. At the E39 in the West there is also a great need. The Western Council has argued a lot for the E39. I guess I'm not alone to have received both enquiries, T-shirts and other effects with a large logo on E39. In addition, we are dealing with a project in Vestfold, at E18, which links the South and Eastern countries closer together. It is an important transport year for business, in order to transport both itself, goods and services in this region in the south. In Alta – to be specific – you reduce E6 by 6 km. There's a distance of about 9 km in total where you either get a new road or a repaired road. A total of five new bridges and three smaller tunnels, which are part of the project, are being built in addition to the pedestrian and cyclist routes, so that that group of road users is also taken care of. The E18 in Westfold is one of the most trafficked routes we have in this country. It's a heavy traffic year for those who are going to and from the different parts of the country that I've been in, but also for those who transport things between these parts of the country. It's important that you get the country closer together, and we do that with that project. In Møre and Romsdal we build a new road 5,6 km in the municipality of Gämne. It's a good project that replaces narrow and curved roads, which makes the road get out of the dents, and with this project we actually avoid that good and arable land is being built. It's at all a smart and good project. All three projects are toll-financed – in part. It is, as I said, very long-term projects that, not least the municipalities and county councils, have stood up very hard to get done quickly. It's important for the Center Party that we can build more roads in those parts of the country where the alternative is – and these projects are good examples of the importance of doing so. As other speakers have pointed out, the Progress Party always has more money for everything. It doesn't have the Center Party. We think it's important to prioritize, and therefore a split layer solution is important to get ahead faster and make sure that we get a lot done in a good way, even if it's added 100 billion. kr more in this national transport plan than in the previous one. I need road safety within, because it has been so easy to focus only on some measures that need to be taken to reduce traffic death. It's important to middle-parts, so does the center-part. At the same time, however, there are a number of other measures that need to be taken. We also need to make sure that there are no loopholes, and you can do that with good protection on the edge, you can do something about the road, and not least you have to do something about our attitudes when we travel on the roads. It needs both attitude changes and control to ensure that people actually run as they should. We can never take responsibility from the driver. Finally, I would just like to extend my warm congratulations to both the municipalities that have stood here, and to those states in the north, west and south that are now getting a better and safer road that benefits both large and small.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1966	A well-developed property is the very lifeblood of the transport system. Road transport is often the only option for many, and better road solutions are important to ensure good accessibility for people and businesses. The upgrading of road standards, new effective roads and good road quality are important from a road safety point of view. That is why we need to focus on more, better and safer ways, and that is why the Christian People's Party has given priority to this sector in our alternative budget. Today, the development and financing of three new projects will be agreed, in More and Romesdal, Finnmark and Vestfold. The construction project has good local political anchoring and, when completed, will be a positive contribution to a more efficient and secure transport system. This is a split layer between the public and the car list. There are significant elements of user payments here, but the Christian People's Party has said that before, and I like to repeat it: we are willing to combine the use of government funds, state funds and user funding to get the roads built. That is why I fundamentally disagree with the Progress Party and the representative of Hoksrud in the view of how road construction should be financed here in the country. The Progress Party will finance it with only state resources, but the Christian People's Party recognises the local political will to support different projects and to contribute financially. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have exactly the same amount of money available, but with the Progress Party's model, the people go their way over the tax haven. With the Christian People's Party's model, payment over the tax haven will be reduced, while those who actually use the road will contribute something more. The progress will have 100 pst. tax financing. The Christian People's Party and the rest of the Stortinge go for a different model, where the caristics crave when they use the road. Here in the hall, the Progress Party is all about its model. When important projects are adopted, the Progress Party is standing outside. The party refuses to support realistic and feasible methods of building a good road system – they do. Then, of course, user payments on the roads must be as fair as possible, even geographically. That's why we have to constantly assess the soundness of the toll system in Norway. The combination of government funds, county funds and user funding helps to realise important road projects, and that is good. But for such a system to be maintained, it is important that the system is not perceived unfairly or very unfairly, for example. with regard to geography. In some areas, there are trends in the density of toll stations. There may be extra heavy loads for some. Therefore, it makes sense to look closely at the integrity of the user payment system, precisely to ensure the most robust and resilient system possible in the future. But when it comes to the three projects that we are adopting here today, I am sure that the result will be good. This is a contribution to a safer and better road standard in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e1985	I am pleased that the Stortinget today will support the proposals for partial toll financing of E6 on the route Møllnes-Kvenvik-Home Air in Finnmark, by E18 on the route Gulli-Langåker in Westfold and by E39 between Astad and Knutset in More and Romesdal. As can be seen from both the options and the posts here today, all the parties are certain to follow up the decisions taken by the municipalities and county councils, with the exception of the Progress Party. Let me say a few words about the three projects. First E6 Møllnes-Kvenvik-Home Air: The extension here is part of the expansion of E6 west of Alta. The project includes the construction of new roads and the repair of existing roads on a distance of about 9.3 km between Møllnes and Home Air, with a 390 m bridge over Kåfjorden. The project also includes four other smaller bridges and three tunnels. The total length of the tunnels is 1.7 km. In addition, the construction of pedestrian and cycle roads is included on the route, as well as the necessary conversion of the local road network. The project will reduce E6 by about 6 km. E18 Gulli-Langåker: E18 is one of the really heavy traffic years that bind our country together. There is now a related four-field highway of high quality between Oslo and Gulli, at the exit to Tønsberg. The section being treated here today, together with Bombestad-Sky, are the two parcels that are left to build before we have the connected four-field motorway between Oslo and Larvik. The project E18 Gulli-Langåker covers the extension of the existing two-field road to the four-field motorway, with a width of 26 metres over a distance of 25.5 km. On this parcel, annual traffic is between 20 000 and 25 000. Expansion means saved travel time for many. Development means reduced transport costs in Westfold and between South and Austland. The E39 Astad-Knutset project is a continuation of the E39 Knutset-Högset project in the municipality of Gämnes in Møre and Romsdal. The project includes the construction of a new two-field road at 5.6 km from Astad to Knutset. The new road will be built outside existing construction and with 80 km on the entire stretch. This will provide a standard that is in line with the requirements that have been set for the daily running of the route, which will result in significant gains by improving the performance of the route. By extending the construction from Knutset to Astad, a tunnel mass can be used from Knutset to Högset. This provides a reasonable resource use, and prevents the degradation of arable land from Knutset to where E39 goes today. This project was a local initiative and has been speeded up. It's described in previous propositions. I think, however, that of these three communities, there was enough in Gemennes City it was most that one couldn't believe that the project was really coming so far that it was ready for treatment. It was very important in itself that it was, because one should see it in connection with Knutset-Astad. Financing and toll provision: it is such that the governance framework and the cost framework of the projects on E6 and E18 are determined by external quality assurance – i.e. KS2 – of the projects. For the E6 project, the distribution is 635 million. NOK 475 million. State crowns and a toll contribution of 160 million. kr. It is consistent with the seats of the national transport plan. That's allowed 100 million. kr of the 2011 project already. In the projects at E18 and E39, it is foreseen that toll companies will advance in order to speed up the process – 205 million. NOK E18 and SEK 15 million. kr of the government budget of E39. Then reimbursement from the government is done according to plan in the period 2014-2019. For E18 Gulli-Langåker it is 750 million. kr in government funds and SEK 1760 million. Tolls. For E39 Astad–Knutset it is 30 million. SEK in government funds and SEK 112 million. Tolls. All three projects will provide a significant boost in performance and increase road safety. The E6 west of Alta is a very important route for both the inhabitants of the region and the business community. Now those who use the road can look forward to the opening in 2013. Everything here is ready to start work. They can look forward to a generally higher road standard and not least a reduction of 6 km. The development of E18 Gulli-Langåker means that we are about to have a coherent, safer motorway to modern standards on this high-traffic route. It was there from 2000 to 2009 134 accidents, with 10 fatalities and 17 injuries. The project will have a major road safety impact, as has been the development of the further north of the E18. In the case of E39 between Astad and Knutset, the main point is to remove the transit traffic on a route with local traffic and soft road users and to increase the speed of transit traffic. The setting and discussion here today show that all the parties are a few about the implementation of the three projects, but the Progress Party wants full government funding as usual. The proposal from the Progress Party is, of course, a step in making the principal resistance to tolls visible. I am pleased that the government and a large majority in Stortinget emphasise that local authorities do not want to wait for the expansion. They will have implemented them now, through partial toll financing. It will be worked already in winter in Alta. It will be worked in winter on the Astad–Knutset section. Both projects expected to be opened in 2013. For Gulli-Langåker it is expected to start in summer, i.e. now in 2011, and open in 2014. I want to use the opportunity to thank the Norwegian Government for the quick handling of these matters. They went to the Council of State on 17 December. Then it has been both Christmas and New Year and in connection with it hopefully for everyone a quiet time. So today, on 10 February, we write, and the Storting has given its support, its green light, its clear signal, to the implementation of these three important projects. There may also be a number of road projects. There are already many projects in 2011. That has been said in connection with the state budget. I'm looking forward to providing more from the government's side, and the Storting is going to get even more to do. I would also like to congratulate the people of Finnmark on the decision today, as do the people of Westfold and the people of More and Romsdal – three new sections on three important national roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2025	Alta municipality was initially opposed to the toll financing of E6 Alta west, but the government's signals were crystal clear: if there is no toll financing, there will be no way either. The municipality of Alta then turned the case around. Do not the central party councils see any fundamental problems with the local authorities becoming a hostage and the local democracy being completely overrun? Or is it that this hall here doesn't have to listen to or consider local democracy at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2032	I thought it was both striking and eye-catching that the precisely Progress Party is asking about local democracy in things like this. It is, of course, the Progress Party that has the highest – we shall call it “cigarization” – and that is also the only one in the United Kingdom to criticise the government for putting into action the tolling project that has come after local initiative. When it concerns Alta, it's special. It is true that the financing of this route was mentioned in the national transport plan as a combination of tolls and local contributions — and in relation to many other communities, a low local contribution. I found it absolutely necessary to follow up, precisely for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2039	I record, as far as the response from the Council of State to the previous speaker is concerned, that local initiative is the same as pressure from the Department and the Council of State. Rapid treatment in the Stortinget: It is not the Stortinget it has encountered in terms of the problems of E18 through Westfold. It's probably the Department and the Council of State, so we're glad the matter finally comes. But it should have come a long time ago. The size does its job. We're happy in the way, and we make sure they go through fast. I want to challenge the council because she didn't answer. There is a proposal here, No. 3, which goes on this with the road normals. I would very much like to know if the Council of State agrees that if you want to change the road standards, it's the accidents and where the accidents happen, which is the important thing, not how many cars are driving there. Or does the Council of State think it's okay that there's a difference between what people are worth in traffic, that they get mid-ranges when there's over 8 000 in annual traffic, but that you shouldn't get it if there's under 8 000 in ÅDT?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2048	Let me first say to Alta and the settlement, the new road being built west of Alta: the final decision has been made in good dialogue with both the municipality of Alta and the municipality of Finnmark. I couldn't take responsibility for getting a change from community to community about projects where the entries are in the national transport plan, because of course most of us would prefer to drop tolls. I'm taking away from the expression "expression" and the expression "fertilization," because it's local initiatives that make us advance here. So for the daily traffic: I have reported that I think it is necessary to look at the daily traffic that is responsible for middle parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2055	I record that the Council of State believes that these processes in Alta are a local initiative. I don't see that there's any local initiative. I see that this is blackmail from the state, because if you don't do this, you don't get any way. But then to spice layers, which I constantly hear the Council of State talking so warmly and nicely about: I believe in More and Romesdal it is 141 pst. in tolls, and on the E18 it's probably 114 pst. which you end up with in tolls. I'm a little excited about the government's definition of what a spice layer is. Is it when the toll is twice as much and far above what the road actually costs to build? Or is it that in a spice layer it should at least be about fifty-fifty?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2062	I told the representative about the projects on the E39 and E18 that there is a local initiative here to get the toll companies to advance, and to get them in line now. In the case of Alta, it was the national transport plan that was followed up – just to be clear. So to spice layers: when we hear Bård Hoksrud's posts, people who haven't listened to him before could think that he's got so many paths in place over so many years, he's done nothing but get into place. So he and his party had an opportunity in three budgets and got 1 million in place. kr more on the way in three years. So for splinter layers: splinter layers are a combination of tolls and state resources, sometimes even other local contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2071	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2074	Let me first point out that this is a good day for More and Romsdal who get a new stretch on the E39 in the municipality of Gämnes. The same applies to Finnmark, which now receives a further expansion of E6 in Alta, and Vestfold, which continues the development of E18 on the Gulli-Langåker route. All three are important road projects that are a continuation of the great commitment to transport that the red-green government is now carrying out across the country. This is good for value creation, for accessibility and not least for road safety. Investment in the national road network is a state responsibility. The state is currently using considerable funds to finance the roads. But there are great needs and many desires, and it's quite understandable that you want as fast an expansion as possible. But there are some who want better roads for, among other things. business, which at the same time will have a fiscal policy that benefits business. Therefore, we will have an annual use of money over the state budget that does not send the interest and crown rates to weather and the competitiveness of the export industry on the opposite side. Then we cannot satisfy all the wishes and demands of municipalities, counties, commuters and others, over one or two state budgets. Expectations and aspirations for road development, race safety, tunnels, bridges, foot-and-mouth paths, double tracks, airports, ports, fairways, etc. is almost unlimited. Tolls have thus arisen as an additional form of financing. In many places, as has been said earlier today, there is a great local commitment to be involved in this. This split layer between public and road users makes it possible to develop a number of projects, as required. the issues we are dealing with today, with the benefits it brings. So the point of tolls is not to bother the drivers, but to be able to build. Most drivers see the benefits of this, even though it may seem a bit annoying and ideally would run for free. Now allow me to get into the attitude of the Progress Party on roads and tolls. It may seem that the resistance to toll financing in that party is more fundamental than the eagerness of more and better roads. This was illustrated by their last national meeting refusing Terje Søvikne's seat in the central government because he had supported the use of tolls to speed up local road construction in Os. The removal of all toll stations is so high that the Progress Party proposes it in the context of the ageing every year. In 2011, this has a price tag of 23.5 billion. kr. At the top of the list of priorities of the party in road policy is therefore something that does not benefit road safety, which does not contribute to the development of districts and communities, which are not at the top of the business list, which can definitely not be said to be an additional use of oil money as an investment in future value creation, but which only makes Norwegian drivers spend a few more dollars on other private consumption – and may annoy themselves a little less. It is clear that this is where the Progress Party believes our biggest societal challenge lies. This image is reinforced by all other contributions to the private economy of the drivers that the Progress Party will make: in addition to the approx. 23.5 B.C.E. kr for the removal of toll stations, the lot will reduce the fuel and diesel tax by 14.6 billion. kr. Then they will remove the new car charge, also called the one-off fee. This will cost us approx. Mr. 19.7 B.C. kr. Just here we're talking about approx. 58 B.C.E. Total NOK In order for us to have some idea of how much money we're talking about, I just mention that a person has to spend 1000 kroner every hour for approx. 114 years to reach 1 billion. kr. And this is before it's built a single meter new road. Talk about "pushing money out of the window" to quote Hoksrud. Then the Progress Party will have us believe that if they come to power, they will immediately start building up four-field highways all over the country. The astronomical sum that will be required is produced as unproblematic from the pension fund. It's called investment, without mentioning that every dollar used has the same effect on interest rates and interest rates, no matter what you call it. The problem is that the Right will not even negotiate a breach of the rule of action in any government talks with the Advance Party after 2013. A question for the Progress Party must then be: how will the lot get more money when you can't spend more oil money, give the drivers nearly 60 billion dollars. kr for extra private consumption and in addition removing property taxes and inheritance taxes together with the Right? I'm excited about the answer. It must necessarily be creative. Before finishing the post, I would like to remind you that in several municipalities and counties, the Progress Party has been a local driver of toll projects and voted in favour of toll financing. This applies, inter alia, to: Oslopack 3. The progress party rapporteur in Os, Terje Søviknes, sent no less than three flags to the top to celebrate that NTP included a major new toll project in his municipality. The enthusiasm was also great in Austevoll, Askøy, Fredrikstad and Hole. The Progress Party has also accepted toll projects in Tønsberg, Fränna, Sula, Kvinnherad, Fjell and Raufoss. At home in my own country, I could read in the local language on 25 January that Hedmark Progress Party will press the government and the Minister for Transport to make progress in the development of RV. 2nd@item: inlistbox This is, as you know, a toll case. It is also interesting to note that the leading civil society spokesman of the Progress Party wanted to be the case rapporteur for the largest of the three toll projects we are dealing with – one thing he is going to vote against. Even in one of the issues we are dealing with today, the Advance Party opens up toll financing. It's in the municipality of Gemene. National transport plan 2010–2019 represents a historical commitment to transport. The investments we're making now are the biggest transport promise in modern times. Nevertheless, as I was about to begin, there is a local desire and willingness to use tolls to speed up and realize road projects further. I think we have to be positive about that, but it has to be a prerequisite that there is local political support for it. If we were to complete all the projects with state resources, this would lead to less scope for investment in other areas of transport, which we also believe are important. Having said that, I am working to maximise the framework for transport infrastructure in Norway, but it must be within a sound economic policy, which effectively meets the challenges and needs of the welfare state, both today and in the future, and which does not endanger Norway's competitiveness and jobs. Because it will really mean that we disclaim responsibility for those who live in this country and for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2118	I think we should listen to the economic advice we get from the government parties, because they say absolutely crystal clear that the total tax pressure in Norway is 38 pst. Then you can believe what someone wants! It is always positive and good for a county or part of the country to put in place the necessary infrastructure. That is partly the case today as well. But, unfortunately, everything is not just rosy with the Alta West project. It's not often I commend this government, but they should have praise for one thing: the use of their imagination to tax their own people. In this area, there is clearly no limit to either creativity or various dreams. The proposal refers to decisions taken in the municipality of Alta on toll financing of the project and implementation of toll collection – not one word that Alta municipality initially did not want a toll collection to implement the project. However, the message from the government was crystal clear: nothing yes from Alta municipality for toll financing, no way. This is how local authorities become hostages to today's regime, which does not want to invest in assets. The proposition refers to the levying of 160 million. kr in toll financing. At the same time, there are 105 million. NOK in financial expenses and SEK 45 million. kr in collection costs or operating costs. In other words, every other penny paid by the driver goes to something other than the road. It is uneconomic, unsocial and directly explored to treat drivers in this way. Alta municipality has decided to set up a municipal company so that some residents in the bombing area can apply for reimbursement of part of the toll costs. The financing of this company shall be based on the increase in parking charges at the Alta Centre. It is no longer just the users of the road who are going to finance development, but everyone else who has a parking need in Alta is going to be involved in financing a road they can't use. Very often we hear from this pulpit that one of the reasons why it is so ‘very difficult’ to build middle parts in Norway is that we have built too narrow roads for middle parts, or centre markings, to be carried out at an acceptable price once or for a long time. In other words, road standards have been too bad. And it's naive, and a little forward-looking, that we don't build roads for the future this time either, with space for middles. Any person may hide behind the requirement for an annual traffic service. But is it that there is only one factor that is crucial to what is required by security measures on our roads? Time and again, we experience that sections that have a so-called too low ÅDT have many tragic accidents. Road standards need to be changed so that people in the districts receive an offer as good and secure as elsewhere. It is high time that more than us in the Progress Party took on board that both curves, overviews, road width, safety zones and smooth driving conditions could be an equally large, or perhaps larger, impact factor on road standards than the ÅDT alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2133	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2137	It's always a pleasure to build new roads, which this government really does. Even I come from a municipality called Halsa on the North Murder, where we had a stretch on the E39 that was so narrow and so bad that there was actually almost no room for a yellow stripe, and that was perceived more as a cultural memory than the E39. But now that we're running there, the road is so nice and so good that we get breathable. We are tempted to fold our hands and just make a prayer of thanks, because the promise that has come is just amazing. Today is Gemnes' turn. This matter is involved in lifting a new section on the Nordmøre. It is about the extension of Astad-Knutset in the municipality of Gämnes. That route becomes a new lift in addition to the mainland connection to Frei and Kristiansund, Krifast. It can also be mentioned that the Freifjord tunnel is now fully upgraded and has become incredibly good. These roads help to tie several municipalities closer together, and the stretch from Krifast to Batnfjordsøra helps to increase the area of housing and labour market. It will also help to ensure that many people do not have the road in the middle of their stable, and perhaps get it quieter around the house nova. In the past, it was meant to build the Gjämnesäxla and connect it to today's E39, and build a once and a bike path on today's trajectory. A construction sketch has now been presented that contributes to a completely new road that will have 80-zones from Gemnesaksla to Batnfjordsøra. That's very good, and we're grateful for that. I register the investor at the Progress Party and that there is no lack of money in their models, at least not in the short term. Then I am glad that the government controls the economy with a steady hand and sticks to the rule of action, operates according to the principle of holding back in good times to have more money in bad times, while actually building many new roads. It is a responsible political way of ruling the country, which provides security for its citizens. So to Bård Hoksrud's comment that the government is building roads and sending the bill to the people. To this I would say that with the economic policy of the Progress Party, the Progress Party will send the bill to thousands of people who are currently working in export-oriented business, not so that they have to pay a sum from their own pocket, but that they simply risk losing their job. It's a heavy bill. It is just an example of a number of other bills that people will be able to get along with the economic policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2150	I registered that the representative Botten almost folded his hands and thanked higher powers for the great roads she drove on. I know some others who fold their hands in prayer that the trip will go well on the crèches they have to go on. So I think that picture is relatively divided. I'll say some words about Innst. 178 S, E18 Gulli-Langåker. I want to say one word: finally. This proposition we've been waiting for a long time. And the fact that it has been such a long time before the Council of State sent the proposition to Stortinget has now probably resulted in a project being postponed. I have even raised this with the Council of State several times and pressured to get the proposal to Stortinget as early as possible, so that we can get safe and secure roads in Westfold. In May 2010, the Council of State promised that the matter would be promoted in the autumn of 2010, so that the start could be in the spring of 2011. The matter was sent from the department on the last day of the Storting meeting. It's late, and that leads to delay. But let it be. I am very happy that the matter has come. Of course, the funding is with bombs. It is always when new roads are to be built under this government. On this route, the drivers will now pay NOK 41. If they're going to run through the whole county, they're going to have to pay 77 kroner. It's probably not much for a government council, but it's a good part for families with children who have to walk on these roads every single day. It is unreasonable when we see a situation in which toll collection and financing costs because they are financed in this way amount to as much as half the cost, and toll financing – as the representative Hoksrud said – together contributes 114 pst. the financing of the road. This is throwing money out of the window. If there's one thing we don't need, it's funding roads this way. North of Westfold, when the new four-field road was built, society saved $16 million. kr the first year of operation in the event of reduced accident costs. Then the road does not just pay itself, but you get a good return on invested capital. And when Sønderud and others here use 70-80 pst. of their interventions to describe the policy of the Progress Party, they may need to go on their own initiative and see the consequences of their own policies — see what kind of waste of public funds this leads to. So the fight against tolls I think we're just going to admit is going to continue, even though the Progress Party is the only fair party in this area. But first of all this is a joyous day, for the matter has come. The biggest decision is that the road will also come. Then we'll see if we can get rid of the toll after 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2163	40 years fight for a new and improved road into Finnmark is over today! Finnmark has progressed a long way towards realizing E6 as a good and traffic-proof road to Finnmark. The improvements to this part of E6 that have been made so far are very good, and it sets the list high for the remaining work, which is now to be completed. However, there has been a great debate in Finnmark and a great deal of commitment, especially in the municipality of Alta, related to the introduction of toll financing. Government and magnification believe that there should be user co-financing also in Finnmark. The debate in Finnmark and in particular in Alta has been linked to the fact that there is little annual traffic, ÅDT. As a result, very few people have to pay for this. The ÅDT represents approx. 1 700 cars. 95 pst. by the inhabitants of the municipality of Alta so that they do not come into contact with the toll road, while the remaining 5 pst. is the profitability of the project together with transit traffic. Alta municipality has been concerned that there is an unreasonable burden on a small proportion of the population, and that it is the entrance year of Finnmark. I understand these reactions, but I also understand the ‘national perspective’, which points out that all sections of the country should be treated equally. We're not familiar with tolls in Finnmark. The last major project is the Fatima Tunnel, which makes Nordkapp municipality land fast. North Cape has a high level of tourist traffic, and the down payment has gone faster than expected. It should be treated equally, but also with an assessment of how to provide equally good infrastructure also in pig-grown areas. There's a balance sheet, how many ratios have to be balanced against each other. What is at least certain is that we get a better, safer and safer way into Finnmark from Troms. It is positive for both the inhabitants who live in this area, for the business community and for the whole of Finnmark. We note that progress party representatives want to postpone the development of a very dangerous road section in order to avoid tolls. Such a chance we don't want in the Workers' Party to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2182	I have registered that a few right-wing rapporteurs in Westfold do not think there is any reason to point out that the Stortinget today adopts the development of Gulli-Langanker. But the rest of us are happy that we are now seeing the end of the E18 development in Westfold. When the construction machinery is released on this road section until the summer, with its completion in 2014, only the route between Bombestad and Sky in the municipality of Larvik remains until the E18 is completed in four fields throughout Westfold. But it's taken time. Until we're done, we have more or less continuous built-up roads through Westfold for over 20 years. In this way, the E18 is fully in line with Norwegian road history tradition, summarised in the book ‘Stupid and divided?’, which describes Norwegian road construction from the 1960s until today. As a result, there may be reason to reflect a little on both the planning process and the way in which it is developed. Because the last one is a product of the first one. Good planning provides rational development. Uranium planning is a major factor in the rational development of the population. It is the irony of fate that the first part of the E18 construction, the 35-km-long four-field section through the northern state, was planned under the Road Act, that is, before we decided in the mid-1990s that all infrastructure development would follow the Law on Planning and Building. In Vestfold there was a direct consequence that Holmestrand and Sande municipalities did not agree on the roadline. I do not know if there has been any analysis of the planning processes after the transition to the Planning and Building Act, but it is raised beyond doubt that the planning of new road installations today is more demanding and complicated, costs more and takes longer than ever. A current dispute between the Right-Rapporteurs of Sandefjord and Larvik about the location of a toll station that technology has subsequently made redundant helped to delay planning by up to two years. In fact, today we have access to a government plan for the implementation of major infrastructure installations, and in individual cases this has been done. In particular, when planning longer and continuous road and rail sections through several municipalities, it should, in my opinion, be the rule, without in any way overstepping local interests. In the light of the experience we have, among others: have been harvested in Westfold, we should at least assess whether the planning processes can be simplified and curtailed, because, when eight to ten years pass from engineers to the earth's spade, there is every reason, in my opinion, to take a closer look at the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2197	Yes, this is a good day for Vestfold, and I am at least very happy. Finally, Gulli-Langåker has arrived in Stortinget, and we have waited a long time. Now the last parcel is left, and hopefully we'll also be there soon. In this connection, I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for having already cleared a long tunnel on that parsley, which triggered a great joy and a great people's party in Larvik. So thank you for that clarification! We remember all the terrible accidents with great consequences that were on the E18 a few years ago. Fortunately, that's history. On the new routes, accidents have been minimal, and with a four-field road through the whole county, the rest of the plugs are removed. But it's time, because it's so bad on the distance that remains, that one every day is in line when one runs off the highway, and in periods, one can almost go from roof to roof. It's not durable. It creates major problems, not least for companies that use the road to cargo and work. There have been many perpetrators, and I want to boast both of state politicians and municipal politicians, and not least of LO and NHO in Westfold, who have worked a lot on the matter. But there has also been cutting in the sea, something that Gullvåg told the story. But I'm glad we're also taking the story with us. Vestfold is a state for historical reasons, and I appreciate that we've been allowed to spend time on archaeological research, which ensures knowledge of what was here before us. This means that Norway's history may have to be rewritten once more, after that round. It also belongs in a transport debate, because before we go up the road, we have to know what's going on. I think it is very nice that we have been allowed to spend good time on it in Westfold. Even more, I would like to stress this matter with regard to the railway, because it will complement the road – what it cannot take. It's added up. There's a lot happening on the railway in Westfold, and we're very happy about that. Westfold is a group of cattle, it's a group of companies with goods on the way, it's a recreational group and a holiday group over something, and we want it to be even more so that people don't spend their time on the road, but it uses it on all the great qualities we have in the county. A new E18 makes it even more attractive to go both to Vestfold, to Telemark and to the Agder counties. So again, this is a great joy day for us from Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2216	The representative Bear Surface calls this a fissure layer – over 100 pst. Tolls! Tolls! Tolls! Tolls! Tolls! Tolls! For me it's not a spice layer, for me it's sending the bill to others and pretending it's the government that delivers and builds the road. It's the drivers who have to pay the entire bill when it comes to the play. It's an incredibly bad way of building infrastructure, and it's an expensive way of building infrastructure. It sounds a little strange, because when I heard the Prime Minister at this pulpit for a while back, he said that OPS was an expensive way to build on. Yes, tolls are an equally expensive way of building out. I hear representatives from the government parties talk about the local anchoring. When I'm talking to local politicians, none of them feel that this has any local anchoring. They see it as the state extortion of local authorities. So they have their backs against the wall, and the alternative is either to build the road or to risk people losing their lives in traffic. It's the choices many local politicians feel they're in the middle of. To the representative of Langeland: The Progress Party has made proposals on roads that we do not agree with, but the difference between Langeland and the government and the Progress Party is that instead of talking about building high-speed trains for 350-500 billion. kr, we'll spend that money modernising today's railway, and then we can spend several hundred billion dollars on refurbishing the incredibly bad road network we have in many places in the country. That's what this is about. It's actually about prioritizing, and the Progress Party is prioritizing, but instead of prioritizing high-speed trains and air dreams, we're actually prioritizing the challenges we're facing today. When I hear the representative Rupstad, I'm a little excited about his definition of what is fissure. He talks about state cofinancing and tolls – it's spice layers! Here, there's very little splinter layer, there's a lot of toll here, and it's the drivers that need to be peeled. The post of the representative Sønsterud – I should have had much longer time, I see that I have 40 seconds left – was an article in a very good history of robbers, an article with doubts or half-truths. To a large extent, it was what the post was about, and she used 80 pst. of his intervention in telling doubts about the policies of the Progress Party and what has actually been done. What I've at least addressed in my posts today are the actual circumstances, it's the numbers, it's the challenges, and that's what the cost of the car list is. In contrast, others use their time to tell half-truths and falsehoods, and then at least we get to relate to the facts and the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2231	The President appreciates the involvement of the Parliamentary Chair, but would point out that the concept of ‘state extortion’ is hardly very parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2234	I hear from this pulpit that we're building roads. But I have to ask myself, who is building roads in Norway if it is not the driver? In NTP, in principle, for a decade, we're going to build roads for 219 billion. kr. During this period, the drivers paid a total of more than 10 years for tolls. 700 B.C.E. kr. These are numbers that we have from the department. In other words, over a ten-year period, the driver has paid three and a half times in the cost of road construction. Is there anyone who doesn't understand it? Three and a half times the driver paid. Is there anyone who goes around and thinks that the driver thinks it's so very nice to be an eternal dairy cow for the interests of others? That is what the debate is about. Why can't we put in place a regime that actually gives back in terms of road development what the driver pays for? Then we wouldn't have this debate here at all. It wouldn't be a problem. It takes time on this speaker to say that, given that the Progress Party has a much more offensive road construction in its policy, we are accused of our policy leading to the closure of the export industry in More and Romsdal. But isn’t it true that today’s toll regime is causing problems for large parts of the export industry in More and Romesdal? And it's actually not the Progress Party that has implemented this regime. We have always fought against toll financing. It is its own party, that is, the Workers' Party, that is, one actually accuses of a bad policy, and then one transfers it to completely other parties. I must say, I am amazed. And finally, to Ingarill Olsen, can you point out somewhere in the proposals that the Progress Party has made, that we have promoted something that is close to any postponement proposal? What we do, on the contrary, is that we want far more than what is likely to be adopted – to take care of our own people in Finnmark by putting in the middle of the road. We build for the future, not for the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2241	In spite of the exposure, all speeches shall be addressed to the President and speaking time shall preferably be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2244	After hearing the article for Else-May Botten, there is probably a need to adjust the picture a little, for such praise that we witnessed during that article, I have rarely heard after I finished on the Sunday ball. But it's not like Else-May Botten and other representatives from the Workers' Party have any reason to praise the government's bet, because it's not the ones who pay for the road section that Else-May Botten likes to drive on. The reality is that the road costs 142 million. kr to build. When you're going to take 200 million. kr in tolls on this route, then the reality – the Else-May Botten and other representatives of the Workers' Party ask – is that the inhabitants of More and Romesdal pay 60 million. kr more than the cost of the road, in tolls. There is no need to praise such a policy. When the representative is engaged in business, industry and similar aspects of competition, he may ask why he would separate Nordmøre and Romesdal, which is a naturally common construction and labour market region, with a bomb road for which the Billystane will pay far more than the road actually costs. I'll give the government praise in one instance that we've seen in the last few years. It was then the built E39 further south in More and Romesdal, in the border between Sogn and Fjordane/Møre and Romesdal, i.e. the E39 Kvivsveg section. One realized that tolls were a bombardment, and then one took them away. Why does one not do the same thing here? The Labour Party representatives voted to remove the tolls, for one could not pay more in tolls than the road route costs. So you have a completely inconsistent policy, and the argument is going to be the same inconsistency in this case. I hope you can put in place a safe and safe road with the middle parts of this county. In fact, the State can fully finance this road section. There are considerable far more space for the country as a whole and not least for the industry in More and Romesdal, which the representative Botten should be so busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2255	In the light of the debate we have had today, I feel compelled to say the following: the E18 development in Westfold would not have been possible without tolls, and it is a point in itself that the toll stations north of Westfold are removed before Langåker-Gulli is completed. There is reason to note that we are now establishing a completely new form of toll collection in Westfold. A total of seven automatic toll stations, from Gulli to Langangen – i.e. the Telemark border – are now to be set up. The recovery period is 15 years, but the completion of the various parcels means that the toll period is likely to extend to 21 years – although all experience shows that traffic is increasing more than forecast, and that the down payment period is therefore shortened. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat that we should be happy that the Progress Party has no influence whatsoever in Norwegian road policy. In that case, we still had a two-way path through most of Westfold. This is, of course, the choice of the Progress Party. When they choose to maintain the illusion that Norwegian roads can be paid by the oil industry, it is of course a purely optional option. The other of us have long realised that the user funding has come to be, and that tolls have become an essential part of Norwegian road financing. On the Gulli-Langåker route, the state effort is now below 30 pst. of the development costs. The full price when passing the toll stations through Vestfold will be NOK 77. No one likes it, but the rest of us, who live in the real world, still choose the path now, rather than living on the existing path for decades to come. We've heard a little about it today from the Progress Party, and I guess we'll be able to hear more about it in an impending municipal election fight. In return, we can refer to Tønsberg, where people are now forced to live with the consequences of the Toll Policy of the Progress Party. There the Progress Party promised road without a bomb, but there we must now live with a bomb without a road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2267	As a Finnmark representative, I do not want to be responsible for the possibility of a postponement of E6 pending only state funding. I note that the Progress Party says that they are not for it, that they have not proposed that it be a postponement. No, the Progress Party later on, as if we don't have user funding, because they don't like it. But we have it, and we get more way to it. That's the reality. What's the result of this reality is that we're now, for example. in Finnmark, obtain a road that is safer. We get a safe road that is 6 kilometers shorter than it is now, with five bridges and with 1.7 miles of tunnels. We're going to get something that's amazing much better than the starting point we have now. After Christmas we have had incredibly bad weather in Finnmark – a lot of snow. It has been challenging to be a driver on both good and bad roads. Even on the best roads it has been demanding. Then this stretch of E6 was closed due to a very long-term rash. The roundabout was via Finland – a distance of more than 40 miles. That's the best proof that something has to be done, and that it has to be done now. We can't wait. That is why we must accept co-financing, which is why users must also be involved, because we cannot wait, nor can we wait from a road safety perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2276	The representative Anundsen told me here in the hall that I used most of my post to talk about the Progress Party's policy. Yes, it's necessary to do that to make it clear what this toll debate is really about, and to tell us where the lines of the policy here are going. When it comes to talking about the politics of others in this room, I think the Progress Party is leading the race. So to the representative Hoksrud, who claimed that my post was full of robber stories and ‘semi-truths’. It would be interesting to document what robber stories and half-truths I told. The progress party also made a visit to Else-May Botten. Clearly, it has not been understood that the representative, Mr Botten, spoke about jobs in the context of a responsible economic policy, and that was not directly in relation to the roads. So here we can talk about making robber stories during the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2285	When the representative Hoksrud was up and had his last post, I was a little afraid that the chandeliers would crack. The drivers pay the drivers pay are the review theme of the Progress Party. They'd rather the state pay. And the state – who is funding it, whether it's the drivers, the train commuters and all the others, in a split layer through the tax bill? Will the Progress Party call for the state’s revenue to be increased – through increased taxes – in order to finance the roads in this way? For me, who chooses the Vestfold track in front of the E18, that's a bad solution. Should I be involved in financing road development? Then the answer from the Progress Party is oil revenue. It's not oil revenue; our oil reserves are a fortune. It's taken millions of years to create that wealth. The progress party will wipe out this money. I don't have my own wealth, I'm just in debt. But I have realized that it is a bad idea to sell out the wealth quickly and spend the money. In addition, it oversees economic development, and it is a gambling with Norwegian jobs. I'm recording that the party representatives up here are happy that the roads are coming. Here you go! But they're still voting against the propositions we're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2298	I didn't think it was so polite to discuss transport policy. I'm very happy that I got the opportunity to join in. I see that there is a great deal of commitment both from the committee and from many representatives here. I wanted to comment on Anundsen, who was in the pulpit and thundered insane instead, and said that it is «a day of joy». I'm almost wondering how he's in the pulpit on a bad day. One can start tricking. Jon Georg Dale said that the new road section we are adopting today separates North Moravia and Romesdal with tolls. I remember that this is much more locally anchored than that, and that the old road will also be open. So if you absolutely don't want to pay tolls, you have an alternative. I believe that this way is helping to link closer links between the North Murder and the Romsdal, and I think that is actually quite important, as the situation is today. This will give you new possibilities in the future. He also said that I praised the path between Rendalen and Staurset. Yes, I do. You may not have been there, but if you've been there, you've seen that there's been a big difference, and that it's important to appreciate it. That's wrong what you say about it being toll-financed. It is not toll-financed at all. You're running completely free, completely free, through that distance. So to the representative Fredriksen who said that our government has contributed to export-oriented business going badly in More and Romesdal. Where are you going? Export-oriented business in More and Romesdal goes so far as to laugh. I warned against the economic policy of the Progress Party. The economic policy of your party may be a contributor to the loss of the job many of those who are in this industry in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2311	Once again, the President will remember that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2314	I have to say that when I heard the last post from the pulpit here, it kind of stuck in me. The reason for this is precisely the export state of More and Romsdal and the cost of transport. In general, transport costs in Europe are around 2–3 pst of a manufactured product. In Norway, transport costs for business are around 5–6 p.m., but in More and Romesdal – just what the representative Botten comes from – transport costs are 50 p.m. higher. The reason for this is, among other things, ferry, and last, but not least, tolls and toll projects unearthed. The two major towns in the state, Molde and Ålesund, have large plans for toll projects. This suggests that there is a lack of investment in transportation. I record that the representative Steinar Gullvåg doesn't like to live in the real world, but accepts it. I have to say that there are small thoughts and small ambitions – or we're going to say great ambitions on the account of others. At least it'll be when there are others who have to pay the bill. When we find evidence that it pays for business to run 30 miles extra with the goods – from More and Romesdal down to central Austland, then to run back to the West – we say something about the cost we politicians have managed to provide industry along the coast, and it's nothing special at all. We also know that the state pension fund abroad invests heavily in foreign countries, in property and in infrastructure. In other words, we use the resources we collect to make the rest of the world more competitive than our own by investing and offering reasonable loans to those countries that see it as important to invest in infrastructure. But we can't do the same thing domestically, because it's destroying the country's economy, it's risking interest rates, there's danger of house and home, and so on. We know that argument. My claim is that if we are not willing to invest in competitiveness, we are not willing to invest in welfare either. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. We should be able to afford that, but not through user payments, because it weakens the competitiveness of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2327	The next speaker is Jan-Henrik Fredriksen. Fredriksen is the case rapporteur for case No. 11 and thus gets a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, although he has had the word twice before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2330	It is true that you want both efficiency and environmental care, and you don't want to make costly arrangements that make our export industry go bankrupt. But what are we actually experiencing in that way? It's that you drive 300 km further to save money, with the toll tax you have today. There are not many merry thoughts for an industry that depends on exports. It is also not a good environmental policy. But that is the result we get when we have as tax-minded politicians as we have in this country. I have to say I am surprised at the statements that we had not built a road in Norway without it being toll-financed. It is strange to be able to do so in most other European countries — it is strange that you are not able to look a little above the table edge and understand that it is going on in other countries. So in danger of being accused of being on another planet: it's not a big problem to implement road development without tolls. But the socialists certainly believe in the mantra that only you get repeated one thing often enough, it becomes a truth. It makes me think of the eternal forward and backward talk we have of politics, when the socialists claim that the Progress Party and the Right will take taxes from the poor and give to the rich. With my hand on my heart, I don't know any politicians who give money. I don't know anyone who has a bag of money in each hand and can give to anything. On the other hand, I know about parties that want to take something less from the population!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2339	The next speaker is Mr Bård Hoksrud, who is the case rapporteur for case No. 12th@item: inlistbox As a result, Mr. Hoksrud also gets a speaking time of 3 minutes, although he has had the word twice before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2342	The council said instead that if you listened to the representative Hoksrud, it seemed like he wanted very much – and at least went back to the time before the representative Hoksrud came to Stortinget. I have agreed to grant money for all the road projects, I think, as the Minister of Transport and the Red-Green Government boasts that they have been involved in adopting in this Chamber. But unlike the government, I've wanted to do it with full government funding, because we have the full opportunity, and we can afford to do it – if that's political will. To the representative of Gullvåg, who was inside the E18 in Westfold, whom he claims would never be able to be built without tolls. It's about political will, it's about political will. Do you have a political will to implement, or do you not? Unfortunately, there is a red-green government that does not have a political will to implement with state funding. I'm very happy that the road is coming. I very much agree with that representative Gullvåg said about this with design, and about how much time you have to spend with everything before you put the shovel in the ground. There is the representative Gullvåg and I agree, and I really hope that we can come back and look at the time before we start building roads. To the representative of Sønsterud, who was wondering what robber stories we had come up with. As far as I registered, it was such that the representative thought we should remove the entire fuel tax, and we had to remove the entire one-time charge on cars. We've never suggested that. We have proposed to reduce the fee, but we have never proposed to remove it completely, as I understood, were some of the elements in the contributions of the representative of Sønsterud. To the representative Gorm Kjernli, who said he didn't want to pay over the tax slip for the drivers who were going to build the road. That's how the drivers today pay almost 50 billion. NOK in car and car related charges. In addition, those who also have a car pay taxes and taxes in the same way as everyone else. That's what this is about. The drivers pay three times as much as they get back on the road, in taxes and taxes that are car-related. So in addition, you pay taxes to the community like everyone else. It's not like the representative Gorm Kjernli is trying to show it, that tolls are so good, because that just means the drivers have to pay for the way they're going to use them. The drivers have paid for that way three times, and that's what it's all about. It's about political will. We have the political will, and we are willing to do this. Then I hope that in 2013 there is another government that will make sure that the road is built without tolls, and that the roads are traffic-proof with the middle parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2353	The President is very much in doubt as to who 'everyone else' is—than motorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2357	This debate was probably something that was suggested. These debates are often quite similar. But I couldn't quite breathe when the representative Gorm Kjernli came up. I have sat and listened carefully to the debate, and have sometimes taken me into thinking that this is almost like an adventure. So here one representative goes up one after another and says that it is not possible to build a road without a bomb. Then the next person comes up and says, "It's not possible to build a road without a bomb." Then the next person comes up and says, "It's not possible to build a road without a bomb." And then you think that just saying this enough, people have to realize that it's not possible to build a road without a bomb. But that's the purest hesitation. Of course, it is possible to build a road without a bomb. It's just deciding to do it. We've actually done it in Norway before. It is an obvious political choice that you do not want to build a road without user funding. So it's all the parties in this room that mean. One does not want to give high enough priority to road safety in order to take the real responsibility of building safe and safe roads around this country. You just don't want it. Then you say, "We don't have money for all of this." We can't run and finance the way through the tax bill. But lynchage can be financed by means of the tax bill! Then we have enough money to finance expansion to 300 billion or 500 billion. kr, or what that bill finally comes up with. I don't understand that we in this room should seriously think that the voters are so stupid that they don't see this through, because they aren't. Gorm Kjernli said we have to have this money, we have to have this tax money in. We can't get rid of the oil money, I think he said. No, but the representative Kjernli thinks it is absolutely right that we use the same oil money to invest in foreign shares – values that are highly uncertain – instead of spending money on real investment in Norway. We're not talking about swindling money. We're not going to put them on a fire and guys up. We're going to use them on real estate investments in Norway to make Norway a better country, to make it a safer and safer country to move in, and not least in terms of business interests. Transport costs in Norway are about 30 pst. higher than in Sweden, because this hall does not take its responsibility and build proper roads. It is important for the whole country that roads are built, and it is important that we have large-scale representatives who have the courage to make political priorities and do not try to create the impression that it is impossible to build a road without a bomb, because that is as much as possible. And we're going to prove that in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2370	The President would point out that deafness is definitely not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2373	It is well known to be a member of a government that prioritises, that not only talks, but also acts, that has broad support in a red-green plurality in Stortinget, and that has a broader political support overall in matters like this. We have put forward an ambitious national transport plan. We follow him up year after year, and that's why we also have three projects for treatment here today. To Gulli-Langåker: Steinar Gullvåg reminded me of something very important, easy to look at the planning processes and the time they need. So let's do that. Then Anundsen was very upset because there were so great delays associated with this project. So the delay in the case that I wrote to the representative, Anundsen, and what is now the case, is going on, which is the difference between spring and summer 2011. It should be to live with. So I was criticized by the Progress Party not to listen to local democracy. So in More and Rome’s valley, the Progress Party will not listen to local democracy. They have asked for an extension of a road where there is annual traffic of 2900. They're really glad they're getting this road. Then go to Alta. I understand Alta. I understand the debates that have been in Alta linked to the tolls there. I am pleased that Alta Municipality has found a scheme for those in the municipality which this goes most far away. At one point, the Right said that if they waited three years, they would get a road without tolls. Right, they realize that this is going to give Alta a way in 2013, and they've joined each other in the comments here in the setting of exactly that, or they're going for the same thing. But then there's also a strange message here that if several sections of the road were to be constructed in the same way, the accident rate in traffic would go down. I take the message that comes from the comment from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, mostly as an indication of things that they haven't done before, because now a lot is happening. So job no. 1 for all of us think I am road safety. So there are some points here that are free of charge in addition to building roads: it's keeping the speed limit, using the belt and running without rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2395	The representative Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2398	In front of the representative Grimstad, I feel compelled to confirm that it may be difficult and cumbersome to live in the real world. The alternative is to substitute it. There's a diagnosis for that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2403	The President is a little uncertain whether anyone else has asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2406	The progress of the game is hard. They're being revealed over and over again. Siv Jensen is just revealed because she travels abroad and spreads – I don't know if « lie» is a parliamentary expression – incorrect information about Norwegian tax policy and Norwegian health policy. The same can be said of the Toll Policy of the Advance Party. Local politicians across the country support toll projects. Tone Merete Sønsterud gave a list instead, but in here the Advance Party is more Catholic than the Pope. But the reason I took the floor is that I have registered that the Right has been sitting in silence in this debate. I have seen that the Progress Party has had many beautiful hopes that after 2013 it will have a policy where no more sections of toll financing will be built in Norway. But we all know that's not the case. The party of progress is all about meaning this. And as the force relationship is right now between the Right and the Advance Party on polls, there's nothing to suggest that the Progress Party will have an impact on its policy, which we were also the case when the Bondevik II government depended on the Progress Party to get support for its budgets. There was little difference between the policies that were followed then and the policies that are being pursued now. The party of progress is sadly alone. Fredriksen said we're a tax collector. No, we are not, but we are incredibly impatient with the people of Alta, in Mora and Romesdal and in Westfold. That's why there's also been local consent to do what we've done there. I shall end with another expression that I am also in doubt about is parliamentary, but it is at least a good old Norwegian expression: a lot of screaming, little wool. That saying comes to my mind when I hear the representatives of the Progress Party in this toll debate here in the Chamber, and when I hear the representative of the Progress Party speaking abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2419	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2422	The representative Anundsen was up here and told us that everyone who has participated in this debate had said that it was not possible to build roads without a bomb. I said in my speech that investment in the national road network is a state responsibility, and that today we are using considerable funds to finance the roads. But there's a great need and a lot of people want out there, and there's a lot of people who want to make progress in their expansions, and then this is an alternative. When you want this locally, I think it would be wrong for us not to be able to comply with it. I have to say that I think it is quite alarming that the Progress Party is voting no in the Storting for applications such as their own local politicians there would like to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2427	The Christian People's Party has a recognition paragraph, that you must be a Christian in order to have leadership in the party. In the Progress Party they also have a confirmation paragraph. He says you must be against tolls to be a member of the party. You will be excluded if you are not. So today we have a debate on this particular section on the recognition of the Progress Party. So do I. They attack as preachers of the Aril Edvardsen to prove how much they are against tolls. Even the leader of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which is usually a man of mind, takes a full swing in his religious fantasies against tolls. I think it's a little frivolous, when one knows the party's history when the party had power, that Fredriksen and Hoksrud fire up like that when they know what they've done. How many trees did they tear out of those they could, in the three budgets they had with Bondevik? How many did they tear? They continued to skin motorists, highwaymen were as good as everyone else when they had power. So they were able to add a million dollars to the road maintenance budget. That's amazing! And then they have a cigar guide so one would think they never did anything wrong. There are many Christians who also behave that way. Double morals are called. What does one do in Oslo – and in Us, Anundsen and others? Yeah, it's a one-way building. There's the Progress Party in the driver's seat, like in Oslo. They cut the car list, build roads, and they even subsidize the public transport in the name of the Progress Party, not in the name of the Spring Lord, but in the name of the Progress Party, with such an identification paragraph. The President is also a member of the right party. I just have to say that I think one of these goes far beyond the line when an attack like this is done, with the story of driving on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2439	It is always nice to get the attention of representatives from SV on how we in the Advance Party should govern our own party. But they haven't got anything completely elementary. Tolls were actually voted against in Os, tolls were voted against in Oslo, and tolls have been voted against regardless of location. You've been doing it all along. The representative of Langeland should have brought that. Then I have to say, yes, clearly it can also be for us in the Progress Party that it can be difficult to relate to the world of reality. Of course it can be. But it is far more preferable than being complete on another planet, as when we hear here that the Vice-Chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee goes to the pulpit and uses the opportunity to claim that our leader, Siv Jensen, spreads falsehoods about Norway abroad. I almost have to ask: who is it that spreads falsehoods? Is there really anyone in this room who believes in what the Ministry of Finance is saying, that the level of taxation in Norway is going to be 38 pst.? For my part, I pay 36-37 pst. tax, plus 25 pst. VAT. Then comes tolls, taxes on diesel, on petrol, on NOx, on tobacco, snuff, booze – all the other things as well. If it's true that the Bjørnflate believes in what the Ministry of Finance here claims, she has to do it. But I actually think that most people are very good at going through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2449	When I heard that the representative of Bjørnflaten said that the Right set the mouse still, and that the Council of State said that the Right has repented, with reference to the text that stands in the setting, I thought that I should not really bring so much new to the square other than to say that the representative Myraune gave an excellent way to knowing what the Right meant, and that we have in no way needed to enter into the debate that has been going on between the Progress Party and the Labour Party today. No one likes tolls. Neither does the Right. However, when we have come up with this form of road pricing and self-financing locally, we are delighted that we are getting more road, new road, and that we are following up what has been decided locally. Then I just want to mention what the Council of State refers to. When the Right has joined a note with, among others. The Christian People's Party that in many places, in several sections, one could have saved society both for accidents and for the loss of life if one had built out in the same way that one is now doing in the Alta area, that's to say: we want more road, we want more road, we want a new road, we want a safer road, we want a massive effort and an action plan for road safety. We also want new forms of funding. There are others who do not want to be involved, including the parties to the government. But that's the background for us to find time and opportunity to comment on the issues that are up for treatment, that just safer, better and longer ways can actually help save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2458	I didn't really intend to take the floor now, but after listening to the representative, Mr. Ingerd Schou, I feel a certain need to get a clear answer to a question, because the representative says, "We're not in favour, but we're in favour." And then the representative says that there's been a local consensus. I think everyone is aware that in the case of E6 in Alta, there is no very consensus at local level – there is pressure from the government. That is why I would like to challenge the Right to join in on the proposals of the Progress Party, which is actually going on government funding of that way, where there is, therefore, pressure from the state towards local authorities. Because I do not understand that there is anyone in Alta who believes that there is local agreement to get a toll bill of more than 300 million. kr on a project for approx. 600 million. kr. So I think it's exciting that Injerd Schou is concerned with new forms of funding. So are we. But it's not necessarily certain that the OPS, the way the Right wants to finance, is some better solution than tolls, because it's a lot about financing through user payments. So I would very much like to think that the Right now had manned up and voted for the Advance Party's proposal on E6 in Alta, because this is not about local consensus. This is a matter of state-only extortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2465	Two things first in relation to the Right: I think it's very good that the Right is involved with the Christian People's Party and the Red-Greens in a broad plurality that supports this way to get the built and funded E6 on as fast as possible west of Alta, where one now has plans and decisions for the financing of a new E6 – 6 km shorter – with a lot of other things already in 2013. I used the cover "Anger" in conjunction with the note on page 2, where one indicates that there are many corresponding distances where it should be built and improved a long time ago, and that one could thus save society for both accidents and loss of life. I totally agree with that. I even thought it indicated that there was a long period of time, if we go back a little, where there was not so much going on. It does so now, and that also means that, as a national transport plan is realised, there will fortunately be fewer such routes. New ways and improvements will help reduce the number of accidents. It had one more chance, if we go back a few years, then some new roads were built. Now more are being built. So in relation to what the Evening Post wrote, because it has also been a theme here today, i.e. there are too many heavy transports running through Oslo because of the costs of ferries and tolls: it is a very strong local pressure on the West to get a ferry-free E39 and thus reduce both costs and travel time. Rogfast, Hordfast, a self-declaration that the Regional Road Manager of the West set off when he now ends – all of this will be part of and form the basis for a debate on how to avoid people running around Oslo. We invite that in connection with the rolling of the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2474	The right does not have the habit of running down the pulpit completely unnecessary. That's almost what it was now, but when the representative Hoksrud asks if we can be involved in something at a point where I've fairly clearly explained earlier here today what the Right stands for, I would say that we tend to make decisions based on a fairly good analysis over some time, and then it's very rare – I repeat very rarely – that we change our position when we're in the Chamber. The right stands for what we've said before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2479	It has been a very interesting debate to sit and listen to. There have been flaming posts – pure wake-up states, if you can call it that. But what I was going to do is actually give the Progress Party right in two things, and I'm going to start with one and end with one: Accidental distances are more important to prioritize than ÅDT in relation to middle-parties. That is where we agree, and there is also the rapporteur from the Labour Party who has given his approval, and there is a discussion that I think we should take. But midpoints are not a standard response to all road safety challenges. It's waste, and there's a number of cases where there's a need for completely different things. I also refer to what TØI has said in this regard. Now we have the opportunity to debate road safety in a number of matters in the future – in inter-pelling debates and in the roll-out of the national transport plan, and we will do so. I have also registered that the Progress Party is very happy in four-field roads, far beyond what my constituents at home in Northernland see the need for – so it is enough that you could imagine prioritizing four-field roads far beyond what is needed. Then I've recorded talking to you as if tolls are a strange phenomenon. The Transport Committee has already travelled in some countries in Europe, we have been in the United States, and we are going on a trip in several countries, and there has certainly been tolling in the countries we have been, partly much more than in Norway. And I think you should notice that. I want to ask the Progress Party: how are you going to secure a majority of toll-free roads? There is no one here in this room who supports you – none. Then I will end with the last thing that I had intended to agree with the Progress Party in this matter. The voters are not stupid, they were told. No, the voters are not stupid. They want the way, they want the railway, and they want it fast. That's why the government is doing what they're doing: building a road and inviting common solutions in a number of areas, and so are we continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2494	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11-13. [[See pages 2456 and 2457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2512	Rail history in Norway is long and significant. From the first sleepers between Kristiania and Eidsvoll in 1854, the railway has tied city and country together and facilitated important goods and passenger transport. Railways have provided increased value creation and jobs for large parts of the country. Norwegian politicians realized in 1854 that they had to take new steps to make Norway competitive in trade with the rest of the world. And these forward-looking politicians realized that working with private people could provide right and good solutions. In times like these, where some politicians would prefer to stick their heads in the sand, it might be worth recalling that the original Eidsvollbanen, and also several track solutions at this time, were both built and driven in collaboration with private. The Eidsvollbane proved to be an unconditional success. Since then, many several miles of railway lines have been built in Norway. A total of 4,000 km of railway lines connect coast and land, north and south. The lines also ensure direct contact between Norway and Scandinavia and Europe. Unfortunately, the state of Norwegian railway is not good enough. The Minister for Transport expressed himself in line with the thoughts of the Right in a letter of 7 January this year, and I quote: ‘The railway has been starving for decades. Now we see the consequences. There is a need for large appropriations for renewal and investment in new capacity. In recent years, travellers have experienced considerable delays as a result of this starvation. When old infrastructure fails, or old trains are in trouble, the delays are fast propagating both because there are no re-routing possibilities in the railway system and because it is not invested in enough robustness in the railway system.’ The Bondevik II government tried to rectify this and make the operation and development of the railway more forward-looking, modern and efficient. Unfortunately, these attempts at change were made even before they had really started. The then representative of the Central Party in the Ministerial chair cancelled all planned changes without any impact assessment and without any consultation after about two weeks in the Ministerial chair. The fourth year was a disaster year for the Norwegian railway system. Punctuality, especially during the winter season, was at an absolute bottom level. Fortunately, increased appropriations for maintenance and prevention by the Storting seem to have had an impact this year. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that improved punctuality statistics are also about a milder winter with less snowfall. With such major and comprehensive rail challenges, it is very regrettable that the government is running away from its promises. We can briefly list regrettable cancellations, such as the postponement of Route Plan 2012, double-track Bergen–Fløen, Eidangerparllen, Alnabru terminal and new Mossetunnel – just to name a few. Many of the failures that still cause train delays are due to errors in switches or signalling systems. It is clear that much is happening in the Railway Agency during the day. We have been able to follow the call for vacancies in the evening post for the last year. The appropriations have also been significantly increased. Unfortunately, despite increased activity in the railway sector, the ambitions do not seem to be similarly increased in order to clean up the situation of signalling and securing facilities. The main weight of the railway station's signalling and securing systems was built in the 1960s and 1970s. These are different in their design, several are unstable, and the Railway Agency has expressed that it is difficult to recruit enough people with the right signal skills. ERTMS means the European Rail Traffic Management System, and is the standard for rail signalling systems chosen by the EU. This standard is also used in many other places in the world. We don't have to travel further than to our neighboring country, Sweden, which has expanded the Botniabanan with this system as a signal standard. We know that ERTMS has been in use in Europe since 2003, and that this standard is being used across Europe. And we know that Norway needs a comprehensive replacement of the safety and signalling systems. This standard is intended to be tested on my main line, east line on the Eastfold Railway, and the installation will not be completed until 2014. At the same time, it appears that the government has taken a waiting-and-see attitude in the rest of the country, up to the treatment of the next national transport plan. The right agrees that it is important to see large infrastructure investments in the context. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is a need for significant replacements of Norwegian signalling systems and that this could significantly increase railway safety and capacity. Can we really afford to wait? The railway works are in the process of developing a concept selection study on the transition to ERTMS. Could it be possible for the Council of State to expedite this process and present it to the Stortinget as soon as possible so that implementation could be carried out? We have large railway extensions and improvements on the stairs. To the right, it seems very unreasonable to buy signalling systems that are not forward-looking and developed with the same standard as the rest of Europe is using. Right doesn't want a new Mercury. The money we invest in the railway must be forward-looking and used in the most efficient and sensible way possible. The government suggests that the phase-in of ERTMS is delayed for several years and does not provide treatment until the next national transport plan. The question to the right is as follows: will the Council of State consider a postponement of the transition to the ERMTS for Norwegian routes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2553	Let me first underline that the interpellant addresses a question that is entirely fundamental to the future of the rail in Norway, the very phase-in of safe and forward-looking signalling systems. However, I am not satisfied with the reason for the interference. A point is made by the red-green government's so-called lifting breach within the railway area. What the government has promised, it's done a little bit more in St.meld No. 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019. I would like to remind you that there are still three years left and two budget proposals for the 2010–2013 programming period. Let us return to the national transport plan accounting for 2010–2019 in 2013 in connection with the submission of a new plan at that time — that is, the forecasting message to be submitted. For several years, the red-green government has stepped up the path of the transport sector. This escalation continues through the national transport plan 2010–2019. For operation, maintenance and investments on the rail network, it is proposed to spend around 9.4 billion annually. Total during the planning period – and then it is the first four years. This represents an increase of about 3.2 billion. 2011-kronor, or 50 pst. compared to the previous national transport plan followed up by the Bondevik II Government. In addition, the permissions of the Railway Agency are increased by nearly 70 pst. at fixed prices from the State budget for 2005 to the State budget for 2011. The total pledges for 2010 and 2011 amount to about 18 billion. kr. This implies a follow-up of the plan frame for the first two years of the current scheduled period of 48 pst. compared to the plan frame for the period 2010–2013. It is in line with the government’s escalation plan, as outlined in the 2011 State budget. The government is going to follow this escalation plan for the two years remaining during this four-year period. That was a lot of numbers. It's content as a tel, and we also see very clearly improvements: we've seen new projects going on, and we're starting three big projects this year. But it is maintenance and renewal that it has now been all the more necessary to spend money. The old signalling and securing systems on the Norwegian rail network face many challenges in the everyday life of the railway. They are expensive and unstable in operation. They are difficult and expensive to maintain and rebuild. Some important spare parts have passed out of production. In addition, it is difficult to recruit new personnel to operate these facilities, because the technology is out of date and the competence of this technology does not exist outside the railway station. The old health insurance systems can easily be seen as a career blind trail by the newcomers and engineers concerned. These challenges will not be reduced as plants get older and the ambitions and efforts on the rail system in Norway become higher. It is important that the Norwegian network can move on to a new and more forward-looking technological platform for signalling and securing systems. ERTMS/ETCS is the new common European standard for signalling systems. This will help harmonise and strengthen rail transport in Europe. Many other countries outside Europe are also committed to using this system. In addition to solving many of the problems we have with signalling and securing systems today, a more forward-looking technological platform with ERTMS/ETCS will provide many benefits. It provides opportunities to increase the capacity of train running and better use of the infrastructure. Trains can be run tighter, signs and light signals can be made more dynamic and the fine mask. The infrastructure will also be simpler because of fewer lineside installations and important parts of the facilities can be centralised. This provides easier maintenance and a less vulnerable infrastructure. ERTMS/ETCS facilitates more seamless cross-border train traffic than today. The market opportunities of the train companies are growing. They can be easier to operate in several countries with own materials, and the train equipment becomes easier to sell when it comes to buying and selling. Rail traffic in Europe is becoming more similar, and it is easier for locomotive drivers to run trains across Europe. The challenge is that the development of such a signalling system in Norway will be a very comprehensive and expensive project. There is a need for comprehensive planning; coordination of measures in infrastructure and on train equipment is required in order to make such a transition work properly. Although a future with ERTMS as a rail signalling system may appear roseraud, experience in Europe suggests that the system is not yet fully developed for conventional rail operations – unlike on high-speed railways built in parts of Europe and China. For example, there have been problems with equipment from different suppliers not working together, i.e. contrary to the objective of the standard. On the Bothnia Railway, where the signalling system has been operating since the opening and is being operated on new trains, there has been a problem with communications between infrastructure and trains. It also has our problems with the stability of train traffic. The current version of ERTMS is also not completely complete in relation to the functionality we need in Norway. The version that is now being developed meets the Norwegian needs for functionality to a greater extent. The two different considerations are version 2.3.0 d, and the new one that is now being developed, version 3.0.0. So, to a greater extent, version 3.0.0 satisfies the Norwegian functionality needs. This shall be specified in 2012/2013 as planned. This means that it can be ready for delivery in 2015 if the supplier industry complies with the new standard. The Ministry has entrusted the Railway Agency with the task of creating a draft currency for the transition to a new signalling and securing platform on the Norwegian network. This distribution is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2011 and shall then be subject to external quality assurance. The results of this evaluation will be an important basis for the next NTP 2014-2023. Important elements in the distribution are to illustrate the consequences of maintaining today's technology compared to strategies for transition to a new and more forward-looking technological platform. The recommendations from the project include: include strategic options for the geographical scope of deployment, the order in which different routes/corridors should be built using ERTMS/ETCS, and the time and speed of deployment. The recommendations shall also cover the types of management tools that are appropriate to ensure coordination between train equipment and infrastructure, so that the transition to the new technological platform can be as smooth as possible. The railway works are now planning the construction of this signalling system on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. This is indicated as an experience stretch for the Railway Agency and the train operators, so that they can build up experience there before further development on other parts of the railway network. The plan is to start testing on the east line in 2014. Otherwise, I refer to the review of ERTMS in the 2011 State Budget. There's also a set of 140 million. kr for further planning of this signalling system. For the reasons I have now mentioned, I am forced to take care of myself before we go into serious action here – a warning of treatment in connection with the next national transport plan. I'm impatient. I want the trains that are today, in a route, and I want more trains in a route. I'm glad that the punctuality now goes up and hours with the delay down. I have now done well for why it is actually necessary to give high priority to expansion, but at the same time hurry slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2585	I didn't get it all the way to rhyme, I, that a boat is impatient and will hurry slowly. First of all, I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, and I can only agree very much on the problem description of the challenges we have today in recruiting a highly varying competence, and on signalling systems that are partly worn out and have lasted long enough. So I very much agree with the problem description. With regard to the solution, I also hear that the Council of State commends ERTMS as something that comes, and that has the qualities that we absolutely need within the signalling system in Norway. Then I think it is very strange when the problem description is as it is, and the solution is also reasonably obvious, that the Council of State is knowingly saying that colleagues in Sweden are running risk sports when they are betting on something that to those degrees is not finished and well enough developed in Europe, when they have decided to put this into practice on the Bothnia Railway, which was started last year. In terms of operational stability, the Council of State does not say that it is good enough, and that is the way to interpret it as a risk sport to invest in the European signalling system as ERTMS. Thus, it has been done in several European countries since 2003, and the Council of State also refers to version 3.0.0 coming. In my mind, it is likely that there will be successively new versions and improved versions of the signalling system that have been put into service in Europe. I hear the real reason is that you don't want to prioritize it because it's so expensive. In addition, reference is made to the fact that Europe has put it into use, and used it for seven, eight, nine years already, and despite this — that countries by country in Europe are beginning to use it — what has not been developed well enough. I wonder what is the alternative when the Council of State has a problem description that says that we don't get enough people to run these old facilities that we have, because there are so many of them, they're so different, and so the competence is not there. Then I wonder, can we really afford to wait? We don't want a new Mercury. The money we invest in the railway in the future must be forward-looking. We're going to build new lanes. Then it is also important that we use the new technology and the signalling system that is otherwise in Europe. The alternatives are not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2598	The interpellant and I'm really a few at one point: we don't want a new Mercury. That's the whole reason why we're going to go very carefully, so we're sure that the signal system that's being introduced in Norway, because the first one is being tested out on the east line, and the second one is being judged very carefully where it's going to be introduced. But before that, we have to gain all the experience that is necessary to be absolutely sure that we are doing what is right. Then I must be allowed to say that I understand that the representative of Ingerd Schou does not get everything to vote on, and that is because I have come to know the representative of Schou as – in the railway field – a representative who manufactures the solutions on the railways in Norway as very simple: it's just to pinch the fingers, then the train goes everywhere, and precisely, and here are people in a lot of ways. And at least if we use private solutions here, everything is completely okay in a very short time. So it's not like that. It was, for example. produced as if only Norway had problems last winter. It was not. It is true that there is both the maintenance and renewal work that we have now undertaken, and a significantly greater preparedness – which means more people and more equipment – that makes things better this winter, that the punctuality goes up and the delay hours go down. But it has our great omissions over the years. It's hard to take everything back. In Sweden, they have gone so far as to share responsibility with many, that when the snow came in the fall, they had to retrieve a snow cleaner from their railway museum, and they had to pick up a pensioner to run this snow cleaner. That didn't seem to me to be a good solution, and I think so: let's check the signal system very carefully. Hence, this well-used Latin expression: Festina Spring. But that doesn't mean we're waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2607	The representative Schou probably has good intentions with this interpellation, but then I think it's a little bad that the shape and tone in it is the way it is. The representative Schou spoke about the reorganisation focus that was under Bondevik II. It was possibly the only focus that Bondevik II had when it was about the railway, because they could not find room for money at least. It is tempting to repeat, for the nth time on this platform, what is a fact about the government's efforts for a better rail in the next few years – about the projects we have going on, about the double tracks in the West Corridor between Asker and Lysaker, and the Gevingås Tunnel, which is both ready for the fall, about the work on the Westfold Railway with the two double tracks there, about the work that is going on with new double tracks between Oslo and Ski, about the Eidanger link and Bergen-Fløen that will come, about the crossing tracks that are under construction on the Sørlandsbanen, Gjøvikbanen, Dovrebanen – not to talk about the great work on the renewal and maintenance of existing railway lines on the whole network, and the Oslo project in particular, of which we are already beginning to see the results. Punctuality is significantly better than it was before. Delay hours are halved compared to last winter. The contributing causes of delays of both the railway works and the NSB have been reduced from last year. This and more could have been tempting to spend time after hearing the representative Schou put on the tone. But that is the question of the extension of the deployment of ERTMS, which is the real theme of the interpellation, although it is also linked to the rest of the railway policy. As the Council of State was in, there is now work to put ERTMS in place as a signalling system in Norway, and the first route out – the pilot – is both my and the inter-pellant’s route: the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway. That work is going on, and it's going to be exciting to see what kind of experience we get out of it. The signalling system on the railway is old and needs to be replaced. ERTMS is the solution because it provides a common standard that we find in several countries, both within and outside Europe. But as the Council of State said in its statement: ERTMS has met its challenges — including on the Bothnia Line. Is there one thing that is absolutely clear to me, is that we now have to be sure that we know what we're doing, and that what we're getting, works optimally. We have our problems with today's signalling systems, but we also have poor experience trying to introduce new signalling systems. We have to make sure we don't get a new Mercury. It has been a ‘more’. I take it as a matter of course that you have now learned, and that what we are now going to do in the future gives us a new robust signalling system. That is why I agree with the Minister for Transport when she says we must hurry slowly. We need to replace the signalling system on the railway in the near future, and it needs to be planned. There is a great deal of work to do to replace the signalling system — and that, in addition to all the other major investment projects. 15 B.C.E. The implementation of ERTMS was estimated at kr in the current national transport plan. At the same time, we are impatient to set up a number of other investment projects on the railway. It will require politicians that we really want to give priority to the railways, and – I would add for myself – perhaps more priority to the railways at the expense of other transport projects in the years to come. There is now a KVU about the transition to a new signalling system, and I look forward to it. We need a plan for the phase-in of ERTMS. Finally, I would like to recall what an overall committee, on the initiative of the Labour Party, wrote in the budgetary position for 2011, that we are asking the Ministry to come back as quickly as possible with a plan for the transition to a new signalling system. For me, it is natural that this will happen at the latest in connection with the new National Transport Plan 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2628	When I saw the interpellation, I thought it was a very important interpellation – but perhaps for special interest. But after listening to the debate today, I no longer know if it's too particularly interested, because it sounds to a large extent like a traditional railway debate in the Stortinget, where some people are very critical of what's happening, and some people are trying to celebrate what you think happened, and what you're working on. I agree that it is good that some things happen with regard to the railway, but I should like to see some things happen a little faster. That things are going much better this year than last year – yes, there is no big bomb either, it should be just a few when we know what results you had last year, and after all the promises of improvement. But I think this with the signalling systems is a very important discussion, because everyone knows that the signalling system we now have is bad. That's why I think it's important to now make an active effort to set up a new signalling system. I actually agree with the Council of States that we should be impatient, and we should work to get it done quickly, but it's not that long since we implemented, at least the first stage of, an emergency network that we saw we had many major challenges to put in place, despite many other countries having introduced it before we introduced it in Norway. So I think it's important to make sure that some of the child diseases and some of the challenges you're facing are actually closed down before you start running the signalling systems across the country, on the whole network. But I'm just as excited as I realized that both the Council of State and Ingerd Schou have, to start and make sure that something happens – legs are impatient after getting started. But the challenge – I want to challenge the Council of States a little bit about what she has been a little bit into, but was a little unclear about – is that there is relatively little money inside the national transport plan to expand the ERTMS system in Norway. Now we've heard that the cost picture is somewhere between 15 and 20 billion. NOK, and there's a lot of money. I think – and I very much agree with what Mr Schou said – that when we first do that, we should do it properly and massively when we get started, so that we can build this out in an efficient and rational way. In Denmark, it has been said that there is a desire to have some positive – not least economic – effects by expanding very rapidly and continuously. I think it's important to have all these relationships with you, and I think, as I said, that this is a very good debate. As far as I have registered, the railway manager has said that the progress you now have is the fastest progress you can have. Then I hope and assume that the Council of State follows closely – and sits on the back of the railway director – so that you are sure that this is done as soon as possible, with the pilot project that is on the east line. I think this might be a very good system, but I think it's important to make sure that you do the right thing now, so that you don't misinvest, as we've done a lot of times before. And as many people have said, the old Merkur system does not want one more time. Then I think it's important that you do this in a proper and proper way. I look forward to the further debate. I also look forward to the KVU coming, so that you can see what progress you have. Getting a system that will really work is important for safety, and not least for the flexibility of our network, so that punctuality gets even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2641	I always thought it was very good that Stortinget discussed trains. It is good that the representative Schou addresses problem settings related to trains. But I know a taste that one doesn't necessarily want to drive the railway forward, it's more that one wants to reveal that the government doesn't have enough money for the railway. That's what's the real agenda. I think that's a little stupid. Then I have to take the lesson that I often have to take when the cigar leadership gets too high for the old government party – and not least for the old government councils, who did then a put in government, to cut off the tracks to the railway. One had railway runs of 1.2 billion. When Schou was thrown out of the government office. With the civil government, there wasn't much talk about signalling systems, then it was about trying to save the railways. So the railroad really got a lift when we finally got to throw Schou and Right out of government. Then there was more money for the railway, then there was more effort to get people to travel by rail – but there are many challenges. Governments were talking about what we spend money on, $140 million. kr for planning, but we want to use more, of course. But to challenge the interpellant a little bit: I see that when a builds new sections, one has to enter and think of a new signal system because the old one has to be phased out anyway, and we don't have people to keep it up. But what are the distances that Schou sees for itself to be rapidly expanding with this system? If you want to ignore the fact that we're going to have a new national transport plan, should you ignore the fact that a thing cancels out intercity, should you ignore the fact that a thing works out a high-speed train? Where are the money items that are clearly available to the Right? You need some space to use this system. What the government has said, and that we follow up by 140 million. kr, is that we should now try it out in the neighborhood of Schou and see if this works. What else does the interpellant want? For that's the experience, that one doesn't quite know where one wants to go, but one has an opportunity to criticize the government – it was an occasion for this case too. I mean, if we discuss trains in general, and I'm very happy that we've managed to lift trains out of the dead water one was in in 2005, when Right ruled the country. Now we have managed to get more money, but far from it – very far from it, absolutely. If we are to make investments in trains, as we see globally – European, Chinese and American, which are also coming now – it is clear that there is a whole other money we need to get a proper railway. SV has pointed out innumerable times the discrimination to which the railway is exposed. In spite of the resistance of the progress piece, asphalt will be rolled out every day on the motorways. And the plane has a lot of revenues – tax-free: 25 pst. of Avinor’s income comes from tax-free — and they have taxes. They have their own income. That's the same thing with the ports. All of them have incentives and concrete money for investment. The train depends on one thing: it's Sigbjørn Johnsen and the state budget. I think we have to look for funding solutions for the train, which has a more long-term impact than an annual budget. We've started with it on Oslo-Ski, which we're now going to build, and which is perhaps one of the areas on which a new signalling system is thinking. But I think the railway needs a changed form of funding, assuming that there is far too little money being invested on the railway. It is good that the interpellant travels the train debate, but preferably I hope that when people take up interviews, they will also be constructive and make recordings of solutions. So now I'm waiting in excitement for Schou's solutions to the problems she was pointing at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2658	There is an important debate between the interpellant of Schou that has traveled. I think that's very nice. But I totally disagree with the argument that the interpellant has led, with the background of its interpellation. I had not even thought that I would go in and say so much about what has been done by this government, but I can't help saying that there has been a big uplift for both road and rail since this government took over in 2005. I just want to point out that the Railway Agency has increased its allocation by nearly 70 pst. from 2005. It's significant. Now a lot happens on the railway side in these times, and then together we can be impatient after doing more, but it's a formidable change that's happened. It is right to ensure a more environmentally friendly society and to ease the pressure on hard-traffic sections by building rail. I have pointed out in previous debates in Stortinget that we need more people with signal skills, after many left the shot with the final package under Bondevik II. That being said, I am concerned that we are going to build a much more modern signalling system around the country. Therefore, I think it is very interesting that the Eastfold Railway on the east line is now being tested out of what is there in relation to ERTMS, and that the railway works and the train companies have the opportunity to build up competence in relation to that system. If this works well now, we imagine that it should be rolled out on a large scale around the country. Not new Mercury – I fully agree with the representative Schou on that. That's exactly why we're going to take the time to get this really tested, to see that it works well, not least because we've seen that it's not all that is equally easily connected to ERTMS either around Europe. No more Mercury – I can say that for many reasons. We have a northern runway that is heavily affected by agreements made with Mercury, which means that crossing tracks are not used, which are badly needed to strengthen the freight capacity on the track. So we're going to be slow, as one here said. I think that the representative Schou is unnecessarily negative in the debate so far. I challenge the representative of Schou to join in and be satisfied that as much as it does on the railway side in those times. Then we can work together to strengthen the work ahead, so that the railway gets even more focus in the years to come. I am very happy that the railway has so much focus around these times. There are many demands in line, there are many projects in the national transport plan, and there are wishes around the investigation of new routes. It should promise good for the railway in the years to come and for the new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2669	Let me immediately say that I enjoy all the good things that affect the railway, and all the good developments that happen on the railway. You usually have to listen very carefully, especially when you want to talk about anything other than signalling systems. To put it that way, signalling systems are about safety. It's about safety for those who travel on the railway, those who have their work on the railway, and those who are around the railway. The starting point is to ensure that the train arrives, but also to avoid large and small-scale accidents. People are going to work, people's working hours are worth something. When the Council of State says that she has learned to know the undersigned in the railway debate, I don't think so. Railways have been neglected for decades. I'm the first one to admit it. So should the Council of State, because it's not the Right that has ruled most of the decades. I'm the first to admit that this is going to take time, but you have to want to railway, you have to double the track, the intercity triangle, you have to want big maintenance funds, and you want new financial instruments too. My concern is that new sections should, of course, have new signalling systems and what is otherwise good in Europe. But in the government budget, it is pointed out that there is a need to replace, precisely from the problem description that the Council of State initially had, and that I fully share with the Council of State. For the recruitment is difficult, today's old signalling systems are worn down and there are still gaps. Then it is not only about new plants, but also about replacing them. I see that we agree on the problem description, and we also agree on the solutions. My small question to the Council of State was whether the Council of State could expect to provide something that we think is valid and fine, as they try out in Europe, as they have had a seven-eight years already, and as Sweden has put it into practice. The safety of the railway and the accessibility of all travellers is enough to make you enjoy every single day of winter where this has worked, but I think the problem description is also shared by many out there who don't think it's fast enough to get a better accessibility and regularity and a greater capacity and quality within the railway. I fully believe that these are the same intentions of the government as they are in the opposition. We just disagree on the instruments – and that is not a small thing – and on the pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2684	It has our nearly 70 pst. increase in the budget since this government took over. Nearer 70 pst. increase in the permissions of the Railway Agency has produced results. Life on the platform has been easier. They're rewriting articles in the Evening Post, so they come across the street to us and tell us. It has to do with more people and more equipment, and it also has to do with better information when the train is delayed. But I want life on board to be better, because I want the train to be on a route. The last Bondevik II, in their last budget, was to cut the rail budget. It gives you a slightly different starting point. Now we provide KVUs with information on the challenges in metropolitan areas. There is one group in which Oslo and Akershus are involved, which especially addresses the challenges in the Oslo area. We have intercity finishing and high-speed finishing. We draw on experience from other countries when it comes to funding — all of this in addition to checking ERTMS, a new signalling system, as best we can. It provides a better basis than we have today for the priorities to be addressed in the Single European Act in 2013. Then there's a question of insurance. What I tried to say, but which would not be quite clear, was that the system that has now been tried out in some European countries has been a problem when it comes to operational stability. The current version of ERTMS is not completely complete when it relates to the functionality we need in Norway. The new version that is now being developed meets the Norwegian needs to a greater extent, and this version is scheduled to be fully specified at the turn of 2012/2013 and ready for delivery in 2015. In this area, we can have high ambitions and believe that we can carry on, but we actually have to stick to the realities and the professional environments that work out this, if the new cigarette plant is to provide security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2694	So the debate is on case No. 14 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2700	The size now goes to voting. Before we go to voting, the President needs to find out if we are decision-making in the Chamber. To figure that out, we're simply going to vote where all the votes are. If everyone is able to vote for it, we're trying to vote for it. You can also vote against it, it's registered – just to check out how many of us we are. So if everyone votes now, we're going to figure that out. Has everyone given a voice? So let's end -- 90. And everyone was able to vote in favour? It's not bad. Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2806	Case No. 3, the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2814	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2824	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 4-9, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4-9 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that in the event of serious adverse health incidents, dependants are granted party rights.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that healthcare companies change non-conformity systems so that family members and patients can also report non-conformity of treatment through the same system as employees.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider granting the right to an auxiliary lawyer to relatives in the event of serious adverse health incidents.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the design of medicinal product packaging is required in order to avoid as far as possible mis-medication and mis-dosing.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a roll-out notice with a view to improving and further developing the responsibilities of health surveillance and the management of adverse health incidents.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the practice of prosecution where possible criminal offences are committed in the health sector, so that the police investigate matters on an independent basis to a far greater extent and not necessarily after consultation with the Health Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2876	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a testing scheme with a ‘hazard commission’ for the health sector on the basis of a model from the accident commission Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that affected patients/ dependants are well informed about adverse events in which consequences and complaints/replacement options are highlighted and that this is adequately documented.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to build up special police competence in investigating matters in the health sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2919	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an offer of psychiatric ambulance services according to the model of the Health West, in all the counties of the country, as soon as it can be practically implemented.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:163 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2944	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to properly promote a case for the establishment of an online national health portal. The case shall include objectives with the portal, the main content and the drive for establishment.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2967	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e2975	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an administrative validity of 15 years for the light driving licence categories AM, A1, A2, A, B, B1 and BE, and not 10 years as the government proposes in Prop. 52 L [[2010-2011]] In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal will be submitted to a subsequent meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3036	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3046	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3054	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 is included in the configuration page 3, the proposals No. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for changes in road standards by reducing the requirement for day-to-day traffic so that important road safety measures such as middle parts, wide centre marking and 3- or 4-field roads become applicable on more projects than today in the construction of new roads or the improvement of existing roads.’ The right has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3075	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The size consents to the deployment of E6 on the Møllnes-Kvenvik-Home Air route in Alta municipality of Finnmark as explained in Prop. 53 S [[2010-2011]] Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The size assumes that the new European road is being built with a mid pulley and so that a call-out vehicle can pass. State financing of the additional costs is included in the final age of the State budget for 2011.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3112	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the deployment of E18 on the Gulli-Langåker route as explained in Prop. 56 S [[2010-2011]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3145	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 is included in the configuration page 4, proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The majority agrees to the development of a new E39 between Astad and Knutset in the municipality of Gämnes in More and Romesdal as explained in Prop. [[2010-2011]] 57 S Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size assumes that the new European road is being built with a mid pulley and so that a call-out vehicle can pass. State financing of the additional costs is included in the final age of the State budget for 2011.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3180	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-10.ana.ud1027e3211	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
