ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e61	The representative Sverre Myrli, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative Anna Ljunggren on study leave from 2 May to 11 May from the Workers' Group on study leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen from 2 May to 11 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and the following alternates shall be invited to meet in Stortinget: For the county of Nordland: Knut Petter Torgersen and Fredrik Sletbak For the county of Troms: Martin Henriksen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e102	Knut Petter Torgersen, Fredrik Sletbakk and Martin Henriksen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e111	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e125	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e134	We are now considering the cost framework for the project rv. 70 The beaches of More and Romesdal. The Transport Committee shall encourage a unanimous vote proposing that the ‘Standing agrees with the project’. 70 Growing beaches in More and Romesdal are being implemented with a cost framework of 945 million. crowns’.» The project includes the construction of a road of about 9 km, including a tunnel of about 9 km. 7.6 km in the municipality of Sunndal in More and Romesdal. The project will provide a race-proof path on the racially dangerous route between the Sunndalsøra and Uppøl. The breeding beaches have been considered to be the most racially dangerous route in More and Romesdal. It is therefore important to start the project as soon as possible. An external quality assurance system has been implemented which has provided a management framework for the project of 880 million. NOK and a cost framework of 945 million. kr, level 2011. It was set up for the start of the project in the spring of 2011 and the new road is expected to open up for traffic at the turn of the year 2013–2014. We often say when we treat the road project that this is a joyous day in a village, in a city or for community. But rarely is it more in its place to use these words than now. It must be – and is – a joyous day in the municipality of Sunndal in More and Romesdal when the Stortinget gives its consent to the allocation, and the project can be started. A little search on the Internet pages of NRK Møre and Romsdal shows the following about the challenges this route has posed in recent years: 11 September 2006: ‘Ras on the Rising Beach of the Riksvegen between Sunndalsøra and Ålvundeid was suspended for several hours after a race Sunday morning. Several large stones of the solution from the mountain side and fall on the road.» On 24 August 2008, the NRK Moore and Romsdal may notify: ‘Steinskreed on the Beach of Breeding. Two cars were hit by rock masses in the Dwelling Beach. A person is under the care of an ambulance staff.’;» 5 June 2009: ‘30 metres wide stony. There's been a stone's throw on the Uphill Beach in Sunndal – Big stones, informs the police." 17 June 2009: «Big on Dwelling Beach. A 100 - foot - wide breed now barriers highway 70 on the Sunndal Uppälsstrand. [[...]] Stone blocks large as cars.’» Rv. So 70 is the main road between Sunndalsøra and Kristiansund and has a lot of local traffic in the municipality of Sunndal. Rv. 70 is also the way that connects Trendelag and Kristiansund via Oppdal. This road, which is by date the most rascal road in More and Romesdal and, according to the State Road Service, the most rascal in the whole region in the middle, is also the school route for a number of kids. Now we're gonna make sure these kids get a racist way to go when they're going to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e183	This is really a day of joy. Before the weekend, the flags were lifted in the municipality of Sunndal, not only because we started up again a temporarily closed aluminium plant, but also because the government has set up and the Stortinge today allocates a billion to this incredibly important project. It's important for more people than those who live in Sunndal. It's important for the whole region. We're totally dependent on having a 24-hour road to work. I'd like to say a little bit more about the feelings that have been associated with this work. There has been a hugely wide-ranging local mobilisation of parents, school students, businesses, prominent cultural personalities, etc. really have engaged. It's no wonder you get engaged when you hear that families actually choose to drive in two cars – mother and father in each of their cars with the kids in each of their cars – so you should avoid the whole family being wiped out if there comes a race and takes one car. The same assessment has also been made in the case of school transport. You send your school kids on two buses to avoid a whole generation going on if the school bus is hit. This is a powerful impression. Now in the future, people in this region will not be able to think about it being dangerous to drive that route. It's time for jam, because it's been like this since the distance was opened. Small tunnels have made sure that the snow race has not come across the road, but they have never sheltered from all the rock jumps that go all year round. I have to say that it means a lot to me personally to be allowed to stand here on the platform today and to agree to deal with this matter. Because even though we've been working a long time to get a long tunnel on the Uppölstranda, things have gone incredibly fast in recent years. And it's like this in the world that when there's more races coming together, and you get a lot of attention in the media, it also keeps going on projects. That's the way it is. Because it has happened that the breeding beaches were actually the last on the county's priority list in More and Rome's valley, and now, just a year and a half after the great races went, the Storting grants a billion. I know that I am just being moved by this brand day. Finally, I would say that rv. 70 is an extremely important artery in our region. As the rapporteur said so well, it is the main link between Kristiansund, Sunndalsøra and Oppdal up to E6 and the railway. But even though we're getting this long tunnel in place, we also have to enjoy all the other positives that have happened along rv. 70, e.g. with the renovation of the Freifjord tunnel, which brings us out to Kristiansund. It is now underway – and completed in the next year – a section with tunnel and new road between Kristiansund and Tingvoll, Øydegard–Bronneset. But then we still have a bottleneck left that really bothers us, and it's between Meisingset and Tingvoll. There are now teleshifts so bad that the ambulance chooses to drive a detour to get to the hospital. I am very pleased with the local commitment shown by the rapporteur around Rv. 70, and they're now working to find a way to speed up that project. You're very, very interested in setting the distance that is now left on rv. 70, emphatically on the agenda when we start rolling the NTP. So today it's really a happy day in our area, and the flags, they're up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e200	You might not be able to take the floor on a matter where the committee agrees. But as a representative of More and Romesdal, it is absolutely impossible to sit still and not take the floor on such an important matter as there has been so much focus on, so much commitment from both the local population, local politicians and state politicians, and not least from here on the Stortinget, that we have this matter for consideration today. The expansion adopted here today will mean too many. Unfortunately, we have had tragic accidents on this route, which is also part of the rear carpet and the reason why we are now getting a significantly safer road in place. In More and Romesdal we are, unfortunately, too accustomed to rascal roads and poor prosperity. We have a big lag to take again. Race on the roads costs society and business a lot of resources, and the uncertainty is going on, as we heard in previous speeches, both for drivers and the population, those who travel on these routes. Securing raspberry roads is a sensible social economy, and it is a major stress factor and psychological burden for those who have to travel daily in raspberry areas. The state has an obligation to sort this out. The Christian People's Party has given priority to racial protection in its alternative budget precisely because the situation is so acute, and I expect that there will be a significant increase in racial protection in the next national transport plan, so that we can secure far more roads, among other things. in More and Romesdal. Rapid and great man-made climate change is one of the greatest societal threats we face today. With the expected climate change, there is good reason to believe that the race challenge is increasing. Natural and man-made climate change creates warmer, wetter and wilder weather. Temperature increases, more rainfall and more extreme weather mean that in the future Norway can have more races than we thought before, other types of race and race in new places. There is little reason to doubt that climate change creates the need for re-monitoring and increased knowledge of racial prevention. Racing monitoring and protection is one of several important and necessary climate adaptation measures. A happy day, yes! In More and Romesdal we get a significantly safer and more robust road in 2013 or 2014, which is much more secure against race. This is forward-looking and absolutely necessary. I want to praise the local forces that have stood on and got this done, which means that the Storting can now adopt this expansion – yes, actually earlier than originally planned. I also want to give the government a flower for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e211	I care about all those who are happy today. I myself am very pleased with the wide support of Stortinget for the project rv. 70 Growing beaches in More and Romesdal are being implemented with a cost framework of 945 million. kr. An old, racially dangerous road with a poor appearance is now replaced by a race-proof and modern road. The work will be started in 2011 and will hopefully be opened for traffic in the year 2013/2014. Rv. 70 between Sunndalsørea and Ålvundeid is part of the tribal road from Oppdal to Kristiansund, in connection with the northern parts of the North Moravia and South Trondelag and E39. In addition, the way to Sunndalsøra is from the villages of Ålvundeid and Ålvundfjord and the school and work path for the inhabitants of the municipality of Sunndal. Rv. 70 The river has a long history from the road was built in the 1920s. The existing road runs along the Sunndalsfjord under Grøvelnebba between Sunndalsøra and Uppøl in the municipality of Sunndal. The road has been rascaled for all the years since it was built. Three tunnels and one raspberry have the road. The stretch between Sunndalsøra and Uppøl is today considered to be the most racially dangerous route in Central Norway. There's a risk of race all year long, in the form of rock jumping, snowfall and fall of ice, all over six kilometers of distance. Several large stone jumps took place on the track, which we have heard about here, in 2006 and 2007, which led to the implementation of security measures on the route. The district council in More and Romesdal agreed to prioritize racial protection of the route. However, the racial protection measures implemented in 2006 and 2007 were not enough to prevent the serious race from happening both in August 2008 and June 2009. At that time, Statens vägvesen saw itself forced to close the road until relatively extensive security measures on the route were implemented. At that time, there was also boat transport on the route – until the road could be opened for general traffic in the autumn of 2009. When the road was reopened, a ban was imposed on the transport of school elephants by bus. This is a ban that will apply until the new road is opened for traffic. There is also a prohibition that tells us how racially dangerous this road is. The road does not have a good enough standard for today's road standards. One tunnel has a clear height of only 3.9 metres. Another tunnel is so narrow that big running gear has a lot of problems when they meet. The curve is also not good enough, according to today's standard. This project is a good example of the impact of a race-oriented road on society, on business and on the population, both in terms of the cost of keeping the road open to traffic and in terms of the cost of goods and services not being delivered at the proper time, and in terms of the uncertainty and insecurity that results from the use of the road in everyday life. This is precisely why the government is implementing its historical initiative on racial protection of the Norwegian road network. What the project covers is already thoroughly done. Of course, a project that turns out to be 43 pst is not. more expensive than originally planned, is implemented as quickly as it's going to be here, but that's going to be it. We have maintained that the project will be carried out with state full funding and as quickly as possible. And the cost frame is 945 million. kr. Let me take advantage of the opportunity to thank Stortinget for the quick handling of the matter. Let me also congratulate the people of the municipality of Sunndal and the road users of Rv. 70 with the start of the project. Let me also say: that's how a person gets a little freezing on his back when one sits and listens to Susanne Bratli refer from the newspaper reviews from when the last race went. It is really what inspires — literally — to clear the roads and make sure that more accessible, more modern, and racially safe roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e239	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e242	It is very good that the government with full state funding is gripping one of the most razed road sections we have. The road that is now to be a safe road has been shamefully unsafe for many years. And it's good that the government increases the rate of racial protection. However, there is reason to stress that the need is far greater than the resources currently deployed in the national transport plan. Although there has been an increase, many feel insecure. The only thing in fact, except to boast of the government with these introductory remarks and to say that the Advance Party is involved in the Flaglifting, is to stress that the cause making is quite minimalistic. That's a very scarce mention of the project. And it refers to three other documents, where there's also pretty little mention of the project. Although we are unison in the enthusiasm, I ask that we get a little more complementary case-making, both on traffic dimensioning and on traffic safety measures, of all the projects that come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e251	I've noticed the rose from the Progress Party and the desire they're making here. And let me say, it's unusual to make a case that can fit on one side, and that's for 1 billion. kr. But then there's not any project either. There is a project that is a very big deal to start as fast as possible. So I would also say that the annual traffic in 2010 on this road section was 2 010 vehicles. In the opening year, it's going to be 2,300. The 20th anniversary of the opening year is estimated to be 3000. I want to mark myself in retrospect what else was said about the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e262	On the right, the government supports this project, but we feel that ways we thought were safe, but it's not. We have pointed out on several occasions that this is important for further work, and we also asked for an action plan on road safety in the 2009 budget, which was followed up by the government in the spring. That's good. So we don't support the BI professor who said it wouldn't be cost equivalent to building racial protection projects in District Norway. I want to ask the Council of State something. With regard to this action plan presented by the State Road Administration, which has not been in Stortinget, could the Council of State believe that such a plan should also have been dealt with in the Stortinget? Now we see that projects are growing bigger and bigger, and the National Racial Protection Group is now asking for another 1 billion. kr per year. So this is raising quite major challenges for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e269	I am mainly busy realising as many projects as possible of those in today's national transport plan. Let me remind you that the action plan developed by the State Road Administration is also well mentioned in the national transport plan, so it is not that road safety is detached from what the Stortinget otherwise operates. When it comes to big projects, they come to the Storting, as they do here. In this case and otherwise, the projects are also mentioned in the State budget year after year. It was also the Dwelling Beach. I don't see it as expedient to realize as much racial protection as possible, now to start a comprehensive process with an action plan – which we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e279	I join the congratulations of the people of Sunndal and also the good words the government gets to deal with this matter. One of the reasons why the Christian People's Party has our positive also for the government's commitment to racial protection is that it is in line with what one has promised in the National Transport Plan for this period. But as also the representative Halleraker said: Behova is so much bigger. As we now also approach the treatment of a new national transport plan, my challenge to the Council of State is: does the Council of State need a greater increase in the next national transport plan? A signal can already be given that this will be a theme that the government will actually give even greater priority to – also because there is now a lot of work to be done, there is a big project, and it could be a good time to get this kind of signal on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e286	Yes, it was a natural follow-up for me in my short reply to Halleraker just to point out in the spring of 2013, so I thank you for the ratio to that now. I see it quite clearly so that race protection needs to be highlighted even more. But let me also say that I was present at a meeting in More and Romesdal, where it was said from the county that More and Romesdal are now getting so much for racial protection during this four-year period that it would have taken the previous government 50 years to get to. I'm not going to owe the previous government – I'm not going to rush it – but I'm just going to say that it tells something that when it comes to the need that's now lifted up and up, we've followed it up to the point and dot by 1 billion. kr, which was considered unrealistic a short time ago. And one should not ignore the fact that the number is increasing in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e293	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e296	The representative Torve made a good point as to how people in the area have felt it. I myself have been at a meeting there right after one of the races, and experienced the commitment that was there to get something done with the Raising Beach. And as the council also says, it's been a long story, it's been a big challenge, and it's been for a long time. I'm very glad that the proposition finally comes, because it's been a long time since you became familiar with and aware of the problems there. But it's very good that it comes, and that's why I end up whole-hearted about all those people who point out that you've raised the flag and now I'm very happy that the case is coming. I also think it is very good that it is treated quickly in Stortinget, so that you start working on it and get this situation fixed, so that all those who use the road can get proper and good roads. But I'm still a little worried about the road standard and the challenges with the road standard in the future in time. I think it is good that things can be done, even if there are much higher costs – 43 pst. is much higher than what was supposed to be initially. But fortunately, that's not what has made it new. Then I heard that the Council of State was busy talking to the previous government in 50 years. Now I don't really need to defend the previous government, but I think in a day like this, it might not be what you should spend time on. It should also be welcomed that it is a unanimous and clear committee that fully supports this. And for a FrP, it's with pleasure that I record that it also happens with full government funding, although this is a little bit unclear in the proposition. But it's very clear from the Council of State's side from the pulpit here today. So this is very good. I also think you should be able to do things quickly – you should be able to act and show that you are actually dealing with this, given the concern that very many people who have used this way have felt for a long time. Therefore, it is gratifying that you now get the matter sorted out and get started, and that hopefully you can open it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e307	I actually thought that we had completed this short debate on a matter we agree on, but once again this Council of State keeps its message from this pulpit and has to talk about a government that went off six years ago, I have to say that it's getting pretty pathetic, in order to maybe use a non-parliamentary expression. She doesn't talk about governments before that government. Maybe they had even less for racial protection -- what do I know? Probably they did. But what I know is that the parties that sat in that government, each and every financial year afterwards, have had racial security as a priority task in their budgets. I think we should now maybe look a little bit ahead. It was also my question to the Council of State in the reply, which she answered very poorly. My question was whether it was not time for an action plan that Stortinget also committed itself to, not just getting individual projects in the order of one billion when appropriate to the Council of State. That's what this is all about. Now we have also received a wish from a national racial protection group on the table, who would like to see the need for two billion a year – not one. But the rise up to one billion was huge for the whole Biggest, and then we experience that climate change and a lot of other things makes that need double, if that's right. I have no reason to suspect that it is right, but I registered that the same Council of State at a racial security conference where she was also present, said: I cannot promise two billion. Then I say that it can be good to have an action plan that the Storting commits to, so that the Storting will at least have the opportunity to balance the projects against each other, not only that it does so according to the government's discretion and the wishes of the Council of State. It was my wish, to get a binding action plan, which I understand the government does not want to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e318	The President agrees with Mr Halleraker that ‘patetic’ is not among the most glittering parliamentary expressions – especially if it is used for a person who is somewhat worse than if it is used for a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e321	I'm a little surprised by the reaction from Halleraker. It's because in my article I didn't say anything about the previous government in the line exchange – I didn't owe the previous government for this. Now I have the opportunity to emphasize even more clearly that I am particularly pleased with the observation that is now on racial protection, and the broad understanding that it is to ensure the most thorough-going of our roads. We won't go back that many years until the understanding wasn't so big. It shows with all clarity the increase on the permissions. Then, a few years ago, the National Racial Protection Group came with the need for one billion. There were probably several people who commented that they were unreasonablely unrealistic. We didn't do that from the Center Party, but there were probably several others who did. But that billion has been good, acceptable and broad policy. That's what made it possible to secure as many times as we've done in recent years. But as we carry out the project after the project, we need to raise our eyes on the future. It's quite right that I can't promise two billion in the next period. I can't do that now either. But what I can promise Halleraker is, first of all, that he will have the same possibility that he has now had, to evaluate the budget in 2012 and 2013. He will be given the opportunity to engage in racial protection and the plans that had to come, because we have seen work on a new national transport plan going on, and racial protection will be an important theme in the bigotry message that is about to arrive in two years' time. There are no more than two years left – spring 2013. And then I'll have to ask Halleraker that he doesn't make it as if the government here comes drawing with projects that nobody knows anything about and after owning the "good feeling". It is precisely this flexibility that has now given the opportunity to produce the Raising Beach, which was thus late in the period, because the Raising Beach has now been considered to be the most razed stretch in the whole of Middle Norway – so on the list and realized and started in 2011. Let's now rejoice over that very thing all of us!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox This indicates that we can rejoice together and move on to case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3792]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e348	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e357	I would like to begin by commending the proposers for putting on the agenda the need to improve train provision in the East, which includes the sections Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer, as well as a new link to Hönefoss and upgrading the railway towards Stockholm. At the same time, proposers also put on the agenda and draw attention to the need for modernisation measures within today's planning system. commuters, travelers, and businesses can sign that there is a great need. The Committee has examined the matter thoroughly. We have pointed out that it is important that travellers receive a train offer that is marked by safety, regularity and quality for their daily journeys, and thus continues to use the train as a means of arrival. The potential for improvement is great. It is necessary to plan more comprehensively and with better planning tools. Models that show profitability and that also have an impact on society as a whole must be made visible, not only within the individual transport project. It's about social development in general – where we're going to live, where we're going to work, where we're going to live our lives, while at the same time ensuring that business can use pathways to transport goods. The intercity triangle constitutes the hub in the development and development of Norwegian railways. The barriers in this area are propagating to other parts of the country. I would also like to stress the importance of the fact that the investigation work in the precisely intercity triangle is closely coordinated with the ongoing high-speed investigation and would also point out that Stortinget has provided guidance on increasing high-speed standards to at least 250 km/h on the developments in the triangle. It is the responsibility of the state to ensure that the population has a good network of roads, railways, quays and airports. But it's not necessarily the state that has to stand for the project alone. There are many ways to finance infrastructure. In some contexts it would make sense to choose one type; in others it would be wise to choose another. From the Right, it is important to point out that we want to open up new models: project funding, public private cooperation – with which we have much experience in Norway – and other forms that will provide more rapid, more continuous and cheaper rail. The intercity triangle is the backbone of the rail offer in the East. The core network investigation carried out by the Railway Agency in the context of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010 to 2019 clearly points to the large maturity of most of the rail network in Norway. The investigation at that time pointed to a need for investment of between 80 and 100 billion. kr to reach an acceptable level and with an acceptable standard. It is fine with the increased appropriations made on the railway side in recent years, but this is small compared to the high demand on the rail network in Norway, and especially in the intercity triangle Skien, Halden and Lillehammer. If the railway is also to have a future – and that is to be the case – it is important that the government and the railway sector expand their horizons and adopt new ways of planning, organising and financing the railway. The state of today’s rail in the eastern region is not good enough to provide a satisfactory travel offer. It must be that people's experience that their working hours are worth something also reflects in that priority. It is necessary to consider a fundamental new element in the railway sector with regard to the financing of large development projects, such as double tracks throughout the intercity triangle, including, inter alia, the financing of large development projects. cooperation between public and private actors in terms of funding, development, design, and broadly new forms of funding. All major railway structures on the regional network must be prepared for a maximum speed of 250 km/h. It is necessary to draw up a separate plan for the development of double tracks throughout the intercity triangle, and it is necessary to do so comprehensively, continuously and with better planning tools than today. I refer to the suggestions that have been made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e383	When the setting is concerned, it is automatically recorded. Other proposers have to address their proposals during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e388	The proposal by the representative of the Left concerns the main and most busy routes in Norway. The intentions of the proposal are broad political consensus. That's what we call the intercity triangle, we find most train travelers today. That's where the population growth will be greatest, and that's where the potential for even more travelers is present. At the same time, effective and good train running on these routes is essential for large parts of the rest of the train traffic, not least long-distance train traffic. Today, more than 9 million passengers travel annually by train on these routes. The feasibility study of the Railway Agency shows that this can increase to 20 million passengers per year, with modern double tracks throughout the route. 35-40 pst. by the potential new travellers would otherwise drive a car. Development in the intercity triangle will provide better visibility, more reliability, more and faster take-offs, and will be a major environmental benefit. This is why the Workers' Party is pleased that there is now a concept selection investigation of expansion in the intercity triangle. There is little doubt that the need and opportunities are there. The draft selection examination must result in a development plan that is time-consuming for the expansion of the intercity triangle. We meet and expect a follow-up to it when the transport plan is revised in 2013. So it's not like we're just waiting for 2013. Today there are already expansions in the triangle. The whole new double track Asker – Lysaker is ready for the fall, and Barkåker – Tønsberg on the Vestfoldbahnen. Work is in progress with the Holm–Holmestrand–Nykirke parcel, and the gigantic project with a new double track Oslo–Ski is also going on. Eidanger-Railway and Eidsvoll-Hamar will follow. There's a lot of expansion going on today, and it'll be even more in the future. We must have modern railways throughout the intercity triangle. Then we probably can't help but do things differently than they've been done. We need more comprehensive development of sections, and we need to ensure the rational progress of projects, as we are now doing with Oslo-Ski, a coherent project with our own project management, our own budget line to ensure good progress, and the regulatory plan is partly done with state regulation. This is requested in the draft representative. The point is that there is a long way to go today. So I'm sure this can be done in several ways. The Labour Party said at its national meeting less than a month ago that we want project funding with our own project organisation and public ownership – a bit like at Oslo–Ski, but for several of the larger projects. Hopefully this way of thinking about it will also make it more attractive for foreign contractors with railway competence to come here to contribute. The railway manager has such a goal, and we share it. The intercity strategy in place is to be revised in the roll-out of the national transport plan, but changes have already been made to it, on which the representative of Schou was involved. There are indications of an increase in speed standard. The intercity investigation must be closely related to the high-speed investigation. The Urban Analysis has carried out a major study of the transport prospects of the major urban areas, called ‘Public Transport, Road Development or Chaos’. With the population growth facing urban areas, we need to have a capacity increase in the transport system. So the question that quickly comes up is, how are we going to solve it? The responses in the report all point in one direction, both economic, spatial and not least environmental considerations, all argue that this increase should take place with public transport. To take it economically: a trend scenario, where we continue to distribute the means of transport as today, will require investments of 273 billion. For the next 20 years. A car scenario, in which all traffic growth occurs in car use, requires investments of 292 billion. kr, whereas a collective scenario, where growth is taken with public transport and bicycles, will only require 142 billion. kr in investments according to the report for Urban Analysis. While the car scenario will increase greenhouse gas emissions by 20 p.p., the collective scenario will increase emissions marginally. This is a very exciting report that clearly shows which way we should go. Intercity development may be part of this, but this must be related to the rest of the collective system. The proposers and the government parties share the view of further expansion in the intercity triangle. Much is going on, more than when the Left ruled the Department of Transportation, and more has to do in the years that come. Today's government parties will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e416	It was nice to hear the statement to the President-in-Office, and it was nice to hear the contribution to the representative, Kernli. But it sounds more like a great party talk, and when you wake up the next day, it is that none of those who have been up and talking hot for the development of the intercity train come up with a single concrete proposal in this case. I think maybe I can bring the Christian People's Party too, because they'll probably also talk about how important it is to do something about the intercity triangle, but they don't have a single proposal. The left, on the other hand, has at least some suggestions in the matter, which might be able to contribute to the expansion of the intercity triangle much faster than what is happening today. And the Progress Party has clear and concrete proposals on how to achieve a much faster expansion than what is being discussed today. Intercity is a very important part of the total infrastructure provision in the East and is in fact the backbone of the rail offer in the East. The challenge is that it is very worn out and that on a number of sections it consists of single-track railway. As long as the railway is some places only single track, there will be places where you have to wait a long time for the meeting train. Of course, this leads to unnecessary delays for all those who are going to arrive, while at the same time contributing to the time it takes to arrive, is far longer than what it necessarily needs to be, because of the stops. As an example of an old and poorly maintained route, I can draw the distance between Larvik and Porsgrund, where trains are now all the way down to 20 and 30 km/h. Of course, this means that you spend much longer time from Porsgrund to Larvik by train than you do with a car, yes, even you can ride from the train between Larvik and Porsgrund. This was just one example, but you know that there are also many other places where there is a sore need, where you need huge upgrades and upgrades and new lanes to meet the competition from the other modes of transport. However, I would point out that there have been some expansions already, and there are several projects you are doing, but at the rate you are currently doing, it will probably go beyond 30 years before you have developed the intercity triangle Halden–Lillehammer–Skien as the double-track railway. The Progress Party believes this is far too late, because we see that population growth is increasing strongly both in the capital area and in the surrounding area, where the railways will be an important part of the collective infrastructure. That is why we have proposed increasing the appropriations for the railway by 60 billion. kr in the next 10 years beyond the government framework. This means that you would already have started the Eidanger thoroughfare, that you had been much longer planning Oslo–Ski. In the context of the treatment of the national transport plan, we were also the only party that proposed to deploy new double tracks all the way to Halden, while the other parties would only expand Oslo-Ski. An extension of double tracks to Halden would have meant that trains could be driven for 200 km/h up to the Swedish border. In addition, we also want to speed up projects that are still pending and are ready to start. The Progress Party has previously proposed the use of new tools to ensure faster progress than the one it has today. We have proposed that the Railway Agency be converted into an undertaking, which is given the opportunity to raise loans to support the development of major railway projects. Furthermore, we have proposed the establishment of an infrastructure fund, where part of the return is to be allocated to the development of both road and rail infrastructure, in order to support important projects that contribute to the strengthening of rail competitiveness by increasing the average speed of the lines, and also by removing some bottlenecks and creating a properly double-tracked railway on the intercity triangle. In order to support the development, we also believe that state regulation should be used to speed up regulatory work than it does today and to help ensure that the development can be started much faster than we are doing today. I would therefore like to bring up the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, which I hope the parties who say they are busy building up the intercity triangle faster, actually join in and support about. For it is proposals that will really mean a much faster progress than what is in the government's proposal for a national transport plan or the other parties' alternative proposals for a national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e431	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e434	This is certainly the internal file of Norwegian railway operations. Along the route Oslo-Skien, Oslo-Halden and Oslo-Lillehammer actually cage 90 pst. by NSB’s customers. It's a region that has growth, and it's going to experience a formidable growth in the future. Trains must be one of the main priorities to solve the transport challenge. Nor is there any doubt that, in a labour market trend, trains will be extraordinarily important, precisely because we are expanding the working regions. We make it possible to stay in Lillehammer, but work in Oslo, or work in Oslo and work in Lillehammer, because the train is better and better suited as a workplace – either early in the morning or in the afternoon – one can reply by e-mail and be directly logged in. That's why I think one of the main challenges when it comes to this work is getting a goal. This debate has so far shown great willingness to bet on the intercity triangle, but what we need is a goal for when this work is to be done. What time should the intercity triangle in Norway be clear? There is no one today who can give a good answer to, and I think that is a defeat for the whole Storting. When we have followed the Norwegian railway system for the last few years in the crisis situation they have had, we can see just that: a mass collapse could give a common signal at the next national transport plan to when the intercity triangle in Norway should be ready. The Christian People's Party has put a national meeting behind it. We have suggested that a good year could be 2023, which is the end of the next national transport plan. The most important thing is not whether this is 2023, 2022 or 2025, but I think it's very important that we gather about a common time for this. The progress game indicates that some of the games are not on this proposal. Then I want to remember what the Progress Party said in its comments about Norwegian rail transport a few years ago. Then they put in the wording that Norway is not suitable for train transport. Now we have no objection in the Christian People's Party. It is so great that the Progress Party also wants to support Norwegian rail transport. But there should be realism in what they propose. Therefore, I think it is very realistic if we can get a total collapse at the next national transport plan that says that the intercity triangle is the job number one for the Norwegian railway. And in order to give both the pressure and the potential for a bet on this, a bunch of big things have to become a few things about when this is going to be clear. Now the political debate has been going on for so many years on the intercity triangle, but we do not know when it will be over. It's going to have to be a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e443	First, thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough review, and thank you for cross-political support. What was said by the representative Gorm Kjernli here instead of that there is more rethinking now than when the Left sat in government, however, I am very uncertain about, not to say that I don't believe so much in it. The background to this proposal for a representative is that the Left is very impatient with the progress of the railway projects in the intercity triangle. The reason for this is all the reports that point to the expected significant population growth in urban areas in the coming years. This is especially true in Oslo and Akershus. With increasing population, there is also an increase in transport needs. Car traffic in urban areas contributes to major problems in the environment, which many have encountered – problems that will grow if measures are put in place to curb the growth of car use and increase the share of public transport. Increased commitment to public transport appears to be one of the most socially profitable and operational measures for improved prosperity, reduced emissions and a good urban environment, and will be important contributions to achieving the objectives of domestic greenhouse gas reduction as set out in the Climate Change Agreement. The Oslo area is the hub of the international railway network. Problems here reproduce in the country with a worse offer as a result. This is why the left for approx. a year ago, a selection of highly competent and solution-oriented transport people set up to look at what could be done to speed up railway development, especially in the intercity triangle. Instead of constantly shifting responsibility to the red-green government, we wanted to make constructive proposals. I guess it didn't go so well, unfortunately. I notice that several parties in the form of a note write that new ways of organising and financing railway investments have to be used. I also notice that in the form of a note, a separate plan for the development of double tracks in the intercity triangle is requested, without the same parties having gone into our proposal that is just about this. The majority of the Committee stresses the importance of close coordination of the investigation work in the intercity triangle with the ongoing high-speed investigation. This, of course, is wise, but can also contribute to the intercity triangle being pushed out in time. You could rather rephrase it and say that we build intercity trains now as quickly as possible, and that this could be the start of a high-speed network. I notice that the government parties are very pleased with the state of things. Then they should listen more to their own Prime Minister, who in the evening post on 18 April says he wants faster planning. He admits that the planning processes take too long – you have to build more holistically. That's exactly what the Left proposes. I have also noticed that the railway manager, Elisabeth Enger, went out to the railway station no. 2–2011 and said that she wanted to think in new ways, and that she is open to evaluating development companies that are responsible for expanding longer distances. This is in line with the wishes of the Left, and we look forward to more innovation from the railway director. And what about SV, who has for a number of years fixed the Ringerik tunnel? Why hasn't SV got more in these six years they've been in power? Why do SV members have to call me and ask me to be offensive in the fight for intercity trains and Ringerik tunnels? I notice that SV does not take the word in this important matter today. The last sentence of the letter from the Council of State may bring forth a little optimism. Governments write: ‘The government will return to any changes to the current funding regime for the roll-out of NTP 2014-2023.’» But it's urgent. As mentioned at the outset, the expected population growth is the background to this representative proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who are at least promoting one of our proposals further in the Committee. And then I take up the suggestions from the left that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e476	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e479	This government took over after a government with low ambitions, which was not met. We have increased the budget for the Railway Agency by nearly 70 pst. We have maintained and renewed far more than any plans would have to. It's getting better, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going to be better. But let me underline, I'm not happy – far from it. There's a lot to do here again. People travel more collectively than before – that’s good – it shows, among other things. travel examinations. Collective provision must be increased and the ability to travel by train strengthened. The government is putting on several fronts to step up efforts to improve and deploy the railway infrastructure. This applies to several large double-track constructions, which are either being built now or under planning. It also applies to important distribution operations carried out by the Railway Agency. When double-track trams Barkåker–Tønsberg is opened in 2011 and Holm–Holmestrand–Nykker will open in 2015/2016, e.g. stand still 15 km between Nykirke and Barkåker-Kobbervikdalen south of Drammen before we have a related double track between Oslo and Tønsberg. Lysaker – Sandvika will open in the fall. The impact of new double track between Oslo and Ski has just been sent to the audience. Double-track walkways between Eidsvoll and Hamar shall be built. Other projects are being planned. Owner's name is now KS2. Planned and ongoing projects will provide shorter travel time, increase capacity and thus improve passenger train provision. At the same time – and it is important to underline – double-track deployments will increase the operational stability of train provision on the routes. Now, when we're going to build a railway for the future, we actually have to take the time to put in place good and holistic plans. The big discussion of how to build up the intercity sections in the future comes when the ongoing work on the concept selection process is completed. I look forward to time-keeping and cost estimates in the spring of 2012 and treatment in connection with the new NTP in the spring of 2013. Thus, the next transport plan presented by the government in 2013 will hold important premises for the further rail operation in Norway. For the daily commuter, it is long to wait for the next NTP. Fortunately, a lot is happening that improves the situation right now. The Oslo project is particularly important for the many thousands who each day take the train to and from work. The intersection and necessary components are replaced and renewed along the densely traversed main lines towards Oslo, and the results are visible through fewer delays and settings. Now there is still a good deal of work to be done. That's what makes large parts of Oslo S and the tunnel between Oslo S and Skøyen close six weeks in the summer. Even if the Oslo area is the very hub of the Norwegian railway system, important maintenance is carried out over the entire network. Both at Dovrebanen, Bergensbanen and Sørlanden provide new crossing tracks with hope of increasing freight traffic. The representative proposal addresses a number of issues mainly related to the organisation, financing and planning of major infrastructure projects. The government's policy in these areas is firm until the next roll-out of the national transport plan. I look forward to a discussion in the spring of 2013. But let me say: in guideline 2 for the etats and Avinor's work on the next transport plan, the ministry has asked for recordings on all these themes. They are also natural to discuss in the working group that has been set up to look at the overarching challenges within the railway sector. Seeing the intercity expression for the high-speed rendering is, of course. Let me just underline in the end: we're doing what many parties have been talking about for many years. When improvements in this field take time, it's not because of everything that's happening now, but it's because of what hasn't happened before. But now we're on the right track -- there's going to be more railway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e506	It's interesting to listen to the Office of the Council of State. Yes, some things have happened that are good, but she says that we should take good time for investigation and review to get good and complete plans. Then I start to worry, because it's about spending time, and it'll take a long time before you get something in place. Then one of my questions to the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that 30 years before you have double tracks on the intercity triangle is too long? Doesn't the Council of State mean that you should have the ambition at least to halve that waiting time? Secondly, the Council of State said that organisation and funding are firm. Now, as far as I know, the Workers' Party has had a national meeting where they have decided to put project funding in place. Does that mean that the Council of State will not do anything about it until 2013 or 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e511	The answer to the first question is yes. I'm impatient. 30 years is so long that I can't really imagine it. What's my point is not to take time with the plans, and that's not what I said either. I said we have to take the time to make good and holistic plans. I think we've seen some examples lately that this having holistic plans is actually very important in order to realize the project faster. So for organization and funding. For this four-year period, there may not be any hope of the major changes, but the decisions taken in 2013 have both the Prime Minister and I previously pointed against – and that applies to both planning, organisation and funding. But we have to figure out the consequences there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e518	I hear the council say she'll think carefully about it, and it's to be planned thoroughly. But the planning hasn't started today, has it? This isn't new grip, is it? It sounds to me as if the Council of State is trying to bore the water. So the government has been sitting for six years – in 2013 it's eight years. To put it that way, I hear that the Council of State is occasionally busy with the time that was. She doesn't want to talk about it, but she does it anyway -- it's a well-known technique. But it can't be bad polite – in the generational perspective – to inherit a worn-out railway on one track! So my question becomes quite specific: when can I expect the travellers and businesses to have double tracks to the EU, to Skien and to Lillehammer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e523	I'm going to assure the representative Schou that what's really nice is to be responsible for the railroad at a time when there's money, because money gives some possibilities. It is also very nice to be responsible for the railway at a time when there is such a broad political agreement that the railway should be strengthened, and where important planning work is actually taking place. It is quite right that the representative Schou says: the plan work has not begun today. It's on the contrary. It's a long line of competent people and planning intercity, doing a high-speed finishing and finishing of other paths. The deadline is 1 February 2012. It's because we're also going to have a nice period next year, that is, in 2012, by going through and discussing these plans. Then comes the big debates in Spring 2013. I like this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e528	I want to remind the Council of State that this hall also knows history. We also know that what got the government to bet on the railway was a financial crisis. And it's not so impressive to come up with that there's actually new plans of government coming along after running for six years. According to the current national transport plan, it will be 58 pst. coverage of double tracks on the lines we talk about. Does the Council not see the need for full double-track coverage, and does it not need a numbering when that target is to be reached, when we reach the next national transport plan? We've been waiting so long for the intercity triangle. Is it not now important to send a signal to the whole railway sector that there will be a target for when this is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e533	The answer is yes. Of course, I see the need, and I mean absolutely – as I also said in my speech – that in the spring of 2013, in the debate that we are going to have on both timing and what this will cost, it is absolutely crucial to get it in place. We can't continue with this wishful thinking, with all the suggestions to pull this out in time for 2042, and I don't know what the second year is. It's absolutely crucial to get a statement out of it now. That's why we have it – an explanation of an intercity strategy that makes it possible to decide on both time and costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e538	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e541	I had not intended to speak in the debate, but I understood that the representative Borghild Tenden told a story that SVs called the Left and worried about the railway operation. Then I expect the representative Tenden to start by telling and explaining what happened to the railway in the two periods when the Left put in government – by the way, I thought that all the SVs were a little up-to-date on this, so I'm a little surprised that they called the representative Tenden. But there may be some lack of knowledge in SV as well, which I doubt. Now the Left suggests that you improve the Stockholm connection. Yes, what was the Left doing in government? Dei lay down – Left with Skogsholm in the head – the train to Stockholm, heia train! No, to make suggestions about it when you're in opposition, and to ask the troubling, I think I'm much needed. So if they call the representative again, I ask them to be so kind as to call me, I will update them in history – but now I think most of them are up to date. What happened to the Left in the government was just a down-priority of the train. Among other things, they cooperated with the Progress Party on the budgets, and the Progress Party was against the train. They saw the train as a socialist, collective project and cut the train runs at the time when the Left was in government. However, the Left chose to cooperate with the Progress Party on the budget of the train. So I'd like to think one should start looking at itself a little bit in the cards before a demanded answer from SV. It is clear that the representative would have seen that the licenses for the train were 50 pst. by the voices, would be at an entirely different level than today. It's obvious. But we're happy that we've managed to get rid of the left hand level of the train runs, because it was totally miserable. Now we're at least three, four times taller than when the left was in position. There is a great deal going on at the time of train projects, on which several speakers have spoken, not least the Council of State and the representative of the Labour Party, Kernli, which means that we can take back some of the omissions that have been in government for many years. Now we can start correcting the damage that the left did for the railway, when they were in position. I also welcome the fact that the Labour Party at its national meeting has now taken offensive decisions on the railways, not least linked to funding. This will allow us to gain more permissions over the train, thereby increasing the speed of expansion. Then, on behalf of SV, and probably also the other government parties, I want to ask the Left to cooperate to increase the licenses, so that we can really get together to get the train moving faster, get more people to take the train and fewer people to drive a car. That's some of the common goals we have. When it comes to the Swedish bet, it's a little silly that we've now got a civil government over there that doesn't want to bet on the train like the red-green ones put up in their election campaign. It seems that we have problems getting to the good cooperation we have had with the Swedes in the past, in order to get better contact with Sweden. There is a reason to be on a layer to increase the bet and bet more on the train in Norway - absolutely. I am very pleased that when the Left, Right and Christian People's Party came out of government, they became more interested in the train, and they also have other budgets than what they had when they had power. I'm very happy that the same parties are on, and I support that we now have to have 250 km plus on all the sections, as the case-speaker was on, and that we are now delivering a high-speed arrangement that is going to take the Norwegian team a lot of steps forward. Left, Christian People's Party and Right are now out of government and can cooperate with an offensive government on railway policy. This should be the starting point for further work on strengthening the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e560	The intercity triangle is important. It is important for the East, but it is also important for the whole country, for us to have the opportunity to have traffic – and offensive freight traffic – through Oslo, which is a hub. We have to bring that with us. Then I want to remind you that there is a lot going on in the railway sector, like the Council of State, among other things. has been the subject of a series of projects in the intercity triangle. Many projects are now being completed in the autumn and beyond of next year. We're actually going to enjoy that. There was a need for maintenance, there was a need for expansion – and there is a potential for expansion that has accumulated over very many years. So I'm looking forward, like the Council of State, to all of the projects that we're both going to complete and start up. So it's been mentioned a number of things that I want to take a little walk in. To plan more comprehensively, we are in complete agreement. That is what we are going to address in the new guidelines for the national transport plan that we are going to adopt in 2013. It has also been said very clearly from the Council of State and the Central Party that we want more project funding. That is why I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has also taken this kind of decision at its national meeting. This means that together we can ‘travel’ very offensively to have a number of projects funded in the future. Then there has been a focus on slowing down the growth of car traffic, as the representative Tenden said. Then it might be tempting to ask how you intend to do it. One way, of course, is to invest offensively in the railways, but if we're going to bring down car traffic, we're going to have to resort to some other grips. What does she want to contribute? Collective traffic is becoming central. Public transport must be central both in the city and in the countryside, because it is important that people drive less themselves but can travel with good public solutions. Then we have to find the measures that are needed to ensure that it is offensive and positive to travel with that type of transport. And the rolling of the National Transport Plan is what we're doing. There are intercity sections that become important. Other sections are also important, and organisation and funding forms will also be the subject there. Then I am a little surprised at the zeal in the previous case and in some other matters after having new plans. You want plans, but here you have a plan, like a national transport plan, no then you really want to ignore it and have extraordinary measures. It'll be a little weird for me. If you want a whole bet, if you want to see a whole in what we're doing, we also have to put it in a context. That's why I think it's wise that we take the time until the roll-out of the transport plan, which is what we're doing, to put in place both the intercity project and the other measures that have been announced throughout the transport sector. So there's no doubt that there's a big boost in the transport plan that we're now two years into. That's it. And the previous one that was then adopted, by the previous government, was overfilled by the sitting government. Now let's not forget that. So I think we should finally remind ourselves that when the Council of State says that it's a good idea to spend a good amount of time planning, it's to make sure that we don't end up in a situation where there's a mess, and that you end up being a truck because you have such a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e579	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e583	I join the Christian People's Party leader Knut Arild Hareide's description that we are talking here about the «inside passenger» within the Norwegian railway. But when I took the word, it's also to point out that there's actually an external file. For the whole Eastern region, it depends on us having a good rail service. I regularly take the train from Lillehammer, which is the intercity train's terminal station. From Lillehammer to e.g. Bjorli, Skåk, Grotli or Lom, all of whom are part of my county, it's another two and a half hours, maybe closer to three, if one goes to Skåk, to drive by car. But for this area, the contact you have with Oslo is just as important. With regard to the whole social development of the eastern region, economic development, the success criterion is No. one that we make Oslo a resource for the rest of the Eastern region, that not the Eastern region is what we've sometimes called an Oslo shadow. If we're going to be able to get to that dynamics, there must be communication veins that work frequently and well. And then the railway is a key into the future, in relation to all that Oslo's congestion on the car's side is going to be about. When we talk about an overall grip for this large geographical area, I also want to mention the Gjøvik track and the possible connection of Gjøvikbanen to the Dovreban. It is about finding a good solution for an area where there are also many people who represent important parts of the industry – the Raufoss area is perhaps the most important industrial area in the whole of the East – and making the frequent dynamics between Oslo and the districts work in a good way. I think it's great that there's so much consensus in this room about this, but let's now remember this whole thing when we're going to work towards the national transport plan. Let's find some temporal goals that make us get pressure in the expansion, because it's actually urgent. Let's find the grips that are going to be, also through alternative ways of financing the railway, so that we can get what else could become the Oslo shadow, to be an area that grows on the resources Oslo represents, whether you travel one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e594	When we now confide in each other in what we think of the railway, it might be good to remember that in the previous transport plan, the rail and road planning frameworks were greatly increased by today's government parties and the Progress Party. At that time the Christian People's Party was a little restrained. But it's changed. At the same time, I should like to take the opportunity to congratulate Mr Hareide on the leadership of the Christian People's Party, and to remind you that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a significant community of faith in many key areas of Norwegian policy, including this, also on transport and rail. We have the faith community that we think it can go a lot faster. We have the faith community that we actually think it should be possible to set up a plan that might have been completed before 2025, and not least that it is possible to use new financial instruments if you want. Then I need to remind you that the investment budget for the Railway Agency in the current year – if I do not remember faults – is approx. 4 B.C.E. kr. When you know that it's far ahead of completing the intercity expansion, as we know it today, with double tracks, there's a lot of money needed. When we also know that the Railway Agency’s perspective statement towards 2040, which came in April, points out that the intercity triangle can be expanded to benefit both Kongsberg, Kongsvinger, Gjøvik and Hønefoss with double tracks, there is a need for significant funding beyond the 4 billion annuals. kr. And when, in addition, you raise the uncertainty about when you're done with high-speed investigation without clear funding, the uncertainty increases. At least I think it's right to say that it feels pretty unclear to those who use the train. When I then hear the Council of State talk about the fact that it is good to have responsibility for the railway at a time when there is money, I think it is very different for those who use the train, those who still have to stand and wait, but perhaps first and foremost for all the users who are uncertain about when there is a significant improvement, when the double track in the intercity triangle will really be in place for the users, whether or not it will be used for a whole new railway concept, and, if so, whether or not you can use the same financial tool on high-speed trains, if you want to build it, if you can use that tool on other types of railway, today's railway and, for that matter, also on the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e605	I notice that the Council of State does not answer questions about when you can expect double tracks in the intercity triangle. I also notice that the Council of State refers to the government's large-scale initiative on the railways as formidable, unlike the one they – excuse me for the expression – had fish that were in the last bourgeois government. And the big bet makes me look forward to getting a double-track in the intercity triangle in 30 years. The large-scale investment means that my train journey from Ashim to Oslo today takes five minutes longer than it did in 1975. And with 30 years' horizon, we're building railroads with old solutions, with old technology, because both time and technology and development are going to go away. Ten years. I can draw attention to how you built the railway to Bergen a little over 100 years ago, and how many years it took. For the Right, the intercity triangle is our first priority. We have put forward an alternative transport plan. We refer to how we want to prioritise and how we want to double-track the entire intercity triangle. This is the backbone, and I experience that travelers, commuters and businesses are not taken seriously when we do not get a binding plan after almost eight years – in two years, in 2013 – with today's government. We want new forms of funding, we want a new planning system, we want to reform the planning system. We have a It would give a doubling of the maintenance promise, only on the railway. And we have proposed new organisational models for both the NSB and the railway, and we even believe that getting competition on the track can take out some gains in terms of regularity, quality and commitment. There are a lot of great staff out there who are busy doing the railway well, and who do it with the challenges that are there every day. I started this day with a text message from a traveler on what is probably in this context the right to cry within the railway – the eastern line. He said that of the 40 minutes the train would take, it has been in 37. He pays the full price, he doesn't get a quality that's worth the price. Nor can you sit on your daily commuter trip to the capital. This is with shame not to report sustainably for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e614	Yes, then I got an SV into the hall, and that's good, because I miss a more offensive attitude from that party. What Langeland's representative said was by no means a surprise. We've been on the committee together four years before, and what he said now, I've heard sometimes. Yes, more money is being spent on the railways now. All governments have done that, and we have more money to spend, including on the railways. That's why the Left also spends more money on rail and public transport, and in our alternative budget, we spend 1.2 billion. kr more than SV in government is on rail and collective action. In this proposal, we also come up with concrete proposals on how to speed up progress in the intercity triangle. Janne Sjelmo Nordås challenged me on what the left will do to reduce car use. Locally, we have been a very offensive perpetrator and initiator of Oslopackakt 3, which is a significant collective effort. Former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm was a strong driver of the Citybanen in Bergen. Former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm also introduced the now successful reward scheme and was upgraded to Gjøvikbanen, which we heard about here instead. In addition, the Left in Oslo has been the driver of the rolling pavement, as it is called. I could keep going, but I'm stopping here, and I'm looking forward to concrete proposals coming in the rolling of the NTP. Then I would like to thank you for a good and fresh debate – it will probably not be the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e625	A brief participation in the summary of this debate: Let me also start by congratulating Mr Hareide on the leadership of the Christian People's Party. I hope he uses it to make sure that the train gets the licenses, even when one has the power – not only when one is out of power. That's what we're talking about here, and that's what we want to talk about when it's left, that now, when you're out of government, you have more money for trains. But what do they mean, when there are ‘air billions’, as the Left, Christian People’s Party and Right call the proposal adopted in the National Transport Plan in 2004, subsidiaryly supported by the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the SV? Then the Christian People's Party, Left and Right said that there are air billions, there's no way to get this done. So the red-green government, with SV at its head, has made sure that the train has actually got its triple, quadruple runs. For me, a nice timeable they could be compared to what the Left had. I haven't been able to get through that. But I would love to be out of government and pay 50 billion. kr for the train – in the year. That would be quite unproblematic. But that's not the way an operation works. Whenever a person has power, a person must be careful to use power. And a little line, in the closing phase, to the case spokesman, who held a good first post when it comes to the importance of the intercity project. But I have to say that I'm smiling a little bit in the beard I don't have, when a person talks about the train going a lot later than before. But I chased me, when Schou was the social minister, it went at exactly the same pace as it is now, and I saw nothing to the effect that the Right and the Social Minister caught up with that problem by increasing the path to the train. But it's clear that when you're out of government, things are easier. Finally, that's how Skogsholm did a lot of good things. The reward scheme is SV very much for, and it has us extra and triple and quadruple. That's very good. We are also very pleased with the city track in Bergen. We are also pleased with much of the collective effort in Oslo, despite the fact that there is no SV-driven. But the left does not get away from the fact that when it comes to the train to Stockholm, it was Skogsholm who said: We don't want anything to do with the Swedish anymore. They're allowed to drive if they're to come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e634	The President must point out that the concept of 'hunting me' is obviously not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e637	Let me say at the bottom of this debate that I am slipping over the joint commitment that is in the Storting to strengthen the railway. So I think there's got to be some understanding that there's a need for good plans to get things done. Let me then just say that of the work that has been started, in addition to the concepts that are already mentioned, there is a project of our own, where we look at experiences from other countries with other types of funding. It is also a distribution that assesses the cost-benefit ratio with which we operate today. So I thought it was a bit excessive faith on a state level. But I'm flexible to use it when it's necessary, and it turned out that at Oslo-Ski, to keep that process going, there was agreement with the municipalities on the partial use of a government plan. So that's where we moved on quickly. But normally, if there are no special blocking elements, government and municipal plans actually go as fast, or just as late, as they are. That means that anyway, there's a need to look at the way we plan to get the planning time to go faster. The big difference between now and before we have to be allowed to rejoice, and that's that now it's actually being built the railroad. Then competence is also a blocking element at times. I'm not going to embroider it beyond saying that I'm happy that both the Railway Agency itself is doing something there to develop people where it's necessary, and for the commitment that we have to acquire international competence, which we can come back to in another context here in the Stortinget. I think I'm well-known, both from different newspapers and in other ways. But that's the case, there are increasing numbers of international competences of different kinds who participated in both maintenance and renewal, and in planning and construction of more Norwegian railways. So sometimes we say about people who belong small, a little nonchalant and humorous that they belong to what they want to right. If there is no one who has come to realize that the implementation of the intercity strategy has been completed on 1 February 2012: The big debate in Stortinget will be held in spring 2013 [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e650	The representative Hoksrud accused me of giving a party speech. To the representative of Hoksrud, I can only say that as a good social democrat, I had the big party day yesterday. Today it is seen a little more the day after. I can assure you that I am not in the back, but I am more motivated than ever. Then I don't have the same need as the representative Sortevik for the proposal he had for Knut Arild Hareide – possibly inspired by Friday's events in England, what do I know? But the representative Hareide said that the Christian People's Party national meeting had suggested 2023. Both the Christian People's Party and the Right have been up here and complained about their need that we still haven't fixed double-track expansion in the intercity triangle. But can the Right come with a promise? If the Right is determined, when shall the double trace of the intercity triangle be clear? Can Knut Arild Hareide say that if the Christian People's Party decides – I have registered that the representative Hareide does not have a prime minister in his stomach – the intercity expansion will be completed in 2023? Or is it just the opposition's attempt to focus on the government parties instead? We've said that the intercity triangle needs to be expanded. We have the ambition of tying up this expansion when we roll the National Transport Plan, with which the Council of State has also concluded its contribution, and now it is fully focused on the double-track development that, while we have this debate, is going on in the intercity triangle. Then we're talking about the newfounding of the Bondevik II government. It wasn't that much innovation. We were with the transport committee in New Zealand and saw the results of a misguided policy there. New Public Management was already on its way back in Europe and other parts of the world when Bondevik II found out that it was a good idea to use New Public Management's governance as a guide in Norway. We know what the result was: we lost a lot of skilled labour at the railway station. It's possible it was innovation. There was a new idea that had been tried out, and that had been shown to fail, and then you came up to the summit in Norway. You still see all of the results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e661	It doesn't seem that Gorm Kjernli has brought the essence into my article. I said that I believe that all of Norway’s railways – after we have discussed the intercity triangle for so many years – are waiting for the Stortinget to agree on a date when we’re going to get this out. I thought it was positive to the right of the Council's last post now, where she just said that that's what we're going to do when we now deal with the next national transport plan. Then it's our shared responsibility to be with and ensure it. When we look at how the Norwegian railway has been doing in the last few years, I think what can really give this a lift is that we land on a date when the intercity triangle is going to be ready. If we follow the plan today, we have 58 pst. double track coverage in 2020. This means that we need a strong effort to achieve – let us say – in 2025, which can be a good year. Christian People's Party has had a national meeting. We have an opinion from there said 2023, but I believe the most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that we can get a united consensus on that precisely when we deal with the National Transport Plan in spring 2013. So I would also say that I think it's the promises that have mainly been in focus when we've been debating the railway today. It is clear that the renewal of the Norwegian railway system is quite necessary, and that getting more for each of the crowns we have entered into the Norwegian railway system is unusually important. Then I think a renewal is absolutely necessary. I therefore think it is very good that the national meeting of the Labour Party has opened up for project funding and opportunities to link it. Of course, the Christian People's Party is positive about it, but we would also be willing to have Public Private Cooperation within this area. We believe that the railway should have the same possibility of renewal as the road sector and other transport sectors. We want to lift the railway, and then we want to give the railway sector the same possibilities as other modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e672	The representative Borghild Tende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e675	With this proposal from the Left, we wanted to meet the government with concrete and forward-looking proposals. Instead, it became – as it often happens – a debate on the past. I'm very sorry about that. We're not going to get any further if we're going to hold on like that in all the debates that deal with this very important topic. We had hoped, through the proposal from the left, that we would be able to look forward to what we can do in this area. It's called the inner fillet. It's a huge population growth. We have to take this into account, and then we have to get a little bit more speed on things than what we see now, when you just boast about how much money you spend in each of the travel budgets. You have to have concrete plans, and you just have to work a little faster than what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e681	Yes, it was a party day yesterday for all Norwegian workers, but I have to say, after listening to the representative Gorm Kjernli's other comments, that I felt that he had not come out of the rush yet, and that at least he had no concrete suggestion for when to finish the double-track in the intercity triangle. After listening to the debate, where the representative Hareide says that in 2020 we have 58 pst. double tracks on the intercity triangle in the East, I expect the government is satisfied that you have 58 pst. double tracks on the intercity triangle in 2020 – for it is one year after the national transport plan for that period has been completed. I think it's quite special when the Council of State and the Red-Green representatives of this pulpit all the time say that now you have to work, we have to have plans, and we're going to discuss this or make a proposal, maybe in 2012, or at least the Stortinge is going to deal with it in 2013. Plans are something we really have enough of. We've made a lot of plans on the challenges we're facing on the railway network. We had the Stemnet investigation, which was finished when it came to the railway, before we adopted the national transport plan we have, and which the government is constantly claiming to follow up. A new core network survey was recently presented to show what needs and challenges the various agencies will face in the future. Then I'm a little happy that the Council of State says that she believes that 30 years is too long. I think it would have been good if we had really had a visionary Minister of Transport saying that it's a goal that we have to be done in at least 15 years. But I feel that you will not be willing to decide anything. I understand that for a government council it may often be difficult to set a date – but there must be some ambitions! The challenge is that the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right say they're busy with it, and I think the representative Schou had a good post. But you don't tell me how to finance it! In addition, in all this discussion, the same batches, together with the government parties, will have high-speed trains going between the four and five largest cities in the country. We know what costs will result in the creation of a high-speed network. We're talking about 350-500 billion. kr, and the railway budget for investments is therefore this year in excess of approx. 4 B.C.E. kr. Maybe we should stick our finger in the ground and start looking at those challenges, when we know it'll cost somewhere between 100 and 150 billion. to set up a modern and efficient railway network on the railway we have today? It might be an ambition that we should bet on fulfilling at less than 20, maybe 15, years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e694	In conclusion, I would like to say: Think to be so loved, so contentious, so much debated – and so little priority. With regard to the train debates we have in this room, I think it's worth noting that everyone wants trains – everyone wants train development – but we disagree about the means. We disagree on the planning systems, and we disagree on new forms of organisation. We disagree on new forms of funding – some ideological reasons, and I regret that. I wish we had agreed on that as well. If the government had wanted to, the government could have come to this big thing and heard a unanimous majority say that over a decade, we have double tracks in place throughout the intercity triangle. It is important for social planning. It's important for people to feel that working hours are worth something. It's important to build the country and make our roads safe, and for most of the heavy transport to go by rail and not on the road and get to the continent, so that business can compete. Much at this debate that we have at regular intervals about trains, underlines one thing, and that is that we need a lift. I hope we don't get a debate about what has been, but about the future. Despite the fact that it has been eight years in 2013, I hope that there will be binding plans, and that the opposition in this room can beat itself a little on the chest and say that it has actually helped us to press forward. Because, as I said, it's not bad to inherit a worn-out railway on a single track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e703	The representative, Hoksrud, stressed the meaning of multiple games. Then it strikes me: yes, here's a lot of talk, about the railway. But while a talker, it's also done work. Because someone has a special responsibility for it. It's all the time, every day, important maintenance, important renewal. A builder, and a plan for a new path. With the common commitment that is now in this room – not just to talk, but also to do more – it promises very well for the debate that has to come at a later time, and that relates to the timing of these important intercity distances, which means a lot to the Austland and to people who live there, but which also means a lot to the rest of the country. So the government is going to invite you to a decision, with a time fixing, in the spring of 2013. There will not be a debate on time-keeping based on visualisation, but based on a statement to be completed on 1 February 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e710	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3792]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e726	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to 3 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e735	To draw a parallel to the previous debate: it is our responsibility as big-time politicians to contribute to the process we are discussing in this matter, not to be sidetracked, but to be brought all the way to the station. We have great ambitions. It has been a long time and has worked hard for many years with the plans for a new National Museum of the West Railway Site in Oslo, which will include the National Gallery, the Art Industry Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art. There is a lot of interest and debate on this issue. We're supposed to be happy about that. We need a debate on our most important institutions. Society is constantly changing. People's habits change. This is why museums must also be able to rethink their dissemination, and constantly look for ways to make themselves attractive and now new groups. Today, we make ambitious demands on what a museum should be and what a museum should do, not least in terms of accessibility. Museums shall not only display objects but also develop and disseminate knowledge about people’s understanding and interaction with their surroundings. In this, there is great professional freedom and at the same time challenges for the museums. An example of this has been seen in the new exhibition at the National Gallery, entitled ‘Life’s Dance. The collection from antiquity to 1950» – an art journey from antiquity to modernism. About the exhibition writes Aftenpost's reviewer: ‘The exhibition area of the National Gallery is drastically restricted by the fact that the upper floor is still closed and the first floor is reserved for museum shops and temporary exhibitions. Therefore, the wish to extend the time perspective while not hanging the images too closely has a narrow framework.» It's just this that makes it urgent to find a solution. I think, for example: It's very sad at 90 pst. of the national gallery collections are stored. There are major challenges both in climatic conditions and in fire and theft safety. This is also the background to many years of working for a better solution for our national heritage. Our art treasures deserve better than what they get today, and we as people deserve better. The question of a new national museum has been the subject of wide debate several times also in Stortinget. We have pointed that out in our remarks, and the majority believe that the intentions of the proposal have been sufficiently respected. The question of future use of the building stock at the national gallery is important, and we are given ample opportunity to discuss this in the future, on a proposal from the government. When it was decided that a new opera would be built in Bjørvika, there was also a heated debate. The progress party was probably the strongest opponent of the plans – and how wrong they were! Today, we have a new and fantastic construction that is well known all over the world. It has contributed to enormous urban development and national pride. Everyone who visits the opera is being rescued, and not least the interest in the opera has increased. We have seen similar examples of this in other countries, for example. in Bilbao, which was once a rather disillusioned town of shipyards and industry, with high unemployment and gloomy prospects. Today Bilbao stands out with enthusiasm, optimism and pride, and it is primarily the Guggenheim Museum that has made Bilbao a popular destination. In the future, there will be a new national museum in Oslo – a lighthouse and a tourist magnet, a building that ensures our art treasures, and that gives good flexibility to reach out to more and more, and that will give us greater pride as a nation. Then in this work we need the museum champions over the museum guards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e764	The fact that we are going to build on the West Railway is not being discussed today, and whether there is a need for a new building on the West Railway is not being discussed either. That's the size and need of the building we're discussing, and what we're going to do with the National Gallery premises. We, who are the guardians of the National Gallery, are attaching our last hope to treatment today. Then the time has come for adjustments, which I was just about to make. It can happen as simply as the Minister of Culture may say that the paintings in gold frames, for example. shall remain in the National Gallery premises. There are no more than 40,000 to 50,000 people seeking contemporary art in Norway today. It's far fewer than in other countries. But it is not contemporary art’s need for new buildings that is disputed. We think it is right to build on the West Railway, but how great and how great it should be, and what it should contain, I think we should discuss. The national gallery is popular. It's the oldest and most visited museum in the country. The national gallery is also a success without being co-located with other museums. It has more visitors, in actual figures, than similar museums both in Copenhagen and in Stockholm. Not so many people are looking for contemporary art, and the reason for this is probably to a large extent that Munch also hangs in the National Gallery. So the basic idea is that those who go and see Munch will also see contemporary art. You should be able to discuss that and ask an open question about it. I refer to the great foreign. The other Nordic capitals, Finland, Sweden, England, Germany, have recently restored their old museums for the older national art, and they show new collections in newly renovated buildings. Mona Lisa in Louvre – the old is also the last scream, I understand in art museum experts. No one is ashamed that Oslo lacks great beauty, but many worry about the historical line that was gone, that is, the cultural heritage, and about a country that is irresistibly arbitrary in the management of its own history. I think the use of the Tullin loop for something other than a parking space and a grey asphalt park would make the National Gallery something more than it is today. Not least, it would have passed as a museum. What formal decisions have been taken in this case to move the National Gallery? A bureaucratic decision? At least we haven't had the big discussions here in Stortinget. Is there a democratic decision anywhere to empty the National Gallery? It is good to know that political decisions can be reversed, especially after the City Council announced what Oslo wants to use its empty cultural buildings for. It was mentioned in the reading room of the Cultural History Museum, you want a high school, you want more kindergartens. What will the government fill the old premises of the National Gallery? We have to get an answer to that today. While the government experiences the situation as a cabal — they call it a ‘museum cabinet’ — others see that the identity of the capital is at stake. Moving cultural institutions to new buildings at the sea edge is hardly in accordance with the fact that Karl Johan's gate is the city's backbone. Oslo becomes a poorer city of culture if the National Gallery and the Museum of Art move into a common building on the Western Railway. After a lifetime and two-three architectural competitions, the cards are thrown, and the cabal is laid, but far from loose, as I see it. Back is the Tullin onion – as I said at the outset – dumped, broken and gray. A wool cloud hovers over the Tullin Loop and the National Gallery, which is about to be emptied of content. The future is uncertain. With large words and apparently agreement about the large displacement planes, after many years right around the corner – now something has to be done with the Tullin onion, the grey space that I was in. The tulle can be transformed into a lush green lung, preferably with a small sculpture park. And what's wrong with the National Gallery? The main argument for moving the National Gallery is that there is such a bad indoor climate there. Then I want to remind the president that there has been a museum there for 100 years, and that has contained the same images. I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e785	The representative Ib Thomsen then addressed the proposal he referred to. The President would also draw attention to the fact that he has 60 years of residence in Oslo, so it's an advantage for the President that there's no way to repeat the statements, to put it like this!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e790	We have now discussed the National Museum on a number of occasions – albeit perhaps in a bit of a half-weekly context. The right starting point and position at this crossroad are in and out the same as before, and it's that the government has to endure criticism of this process. We experienced the process associated with – what to say – creative meetings between Mr. Lae, the time mayor, and the then Councillor, Giske, as leading this process into a difficult path that raised some unresolved questions related to both the site of the Western Railway and not least the building mass that is today made up of the National Museum. We would have wanted this somewhat different, but we also have to realize that there is a process going forward. There have been many years of work and large investments both in architectural competitions and related investigations that will now have to add up to a rematch, as some imagine, just lead us into a new, long-term postponement, and that will bring considerable additional costs. This is not a realistic way forward for the National Museum, which absolutely needs a new framework for its activities, and which needs a promise to be the institution a national museum should be in a country like ours. So we want to help look forward, even though we weren't so happy about the way that went here. Then I have to say that when the representative Stokkan-Grande used the expression that it was important not to put this matter on a siding, the picture was falling close, compared to the fact that it is the siding it is now on the western runway. Then we're going to hope that it'll be a happy end-station. But I would also like to say that I hope that the old building mass of the West Railway, when the draft is to be adapted, and the obvious disadvantage that the railway station is – because I will insist that it is – is at least not made worse than necessary in the process further. I also hope that the last word may not have been said in relation to any of the building mass that is there, if in an adaptation of what is to come, it is necessary to look at the extent of the old building mass. Then Oslo has many constructive thoughts around Tullinløkka, that there is a need for a green spot and not a grey asphalt spot, as the Progress Party pointed out. I hope that there will be good contact between the Council of State, the Ministry and the Municipality of Oslo in finding solutions for that area, which means that we do not have to wait for many years now, with a place that is not presentable. There it must be possible to find a temporary solution that makes that area green – it cannot cost the whole world. In addition, by this crossroads, the Right has a proposal to start work on an answer to how to deal with the old building mass, and in particular the old building of the National Gallery. I would also like to remind you that there are other old buildings that are relevant to the National Museum, but that building is particularly important. Obviously, it's not any building that opens up for any use. Our starting point is that it would be natural to continue that building as part of the National Museum, at the National Museum's disposal and alternate use, depending on how the museum itself will find a professionally good solution to the use of this house as a museum area. It is a proposal we have made earlier, and we will point out that this will have to be until you are able to come up with something that is better. But it's hard to see what it should be. But, as I said, if you're going to be a little dissatisfied with what's been going on, it's important to bring this case into what's going to be, in the most positive way possible. It will right try to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e805	What's happy about a new building is that people will have the opportunity to experience far more than before of the art we have here in the country. As has been mentioned earlier in many of the debates, which rarely appear, is 90 pst. of the collections of our national art taxes in the basement of the National Gallery. They're in bad climatic conditions. That means we're afraid they're going to mush. In addition, we have professional reports showing that the fire safety and theft safety of the national gallery building are today under pari, or poor. That's why this is a question of art availability for people, of whether we as people are going to have access to what are our art taxes here in the country, and it's also a question of how we take care of those art taxes and our cultural heritage. Nevertheless, there are several considerations that need to be taken into account in this case. The national gallery building is, as others have been, a tax in itself. It is a protected building, and it must be preserved in the form and context it is built in. SV in Oslo believes that there should still be art there, and I believe so too. It is a good and important input, which I hope the Minister of Culture will take with him in the further reading. It would be interesting to see that older art genres can get to their right in a building where they can be shown in the context in which they were made, and it might be interesting to show contemporary art there – what do I know? It is museum-disciplinary, art-disciplinary and dissemination-disciplinary that must be the basis for this. So finally, I want us to take that perspective into consideration in further matters that art must be available throughout Oslo, in all parts of the city. Oslo shall be an attractive city to live in, and there shall be an attractive city to visit. But, as I said, what's joyous is that we're now going to see a lot of the art taxes that have been hidden from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e814	For a long time, the government has made it clear that a new national museum will be set up at the West Railway Station in Oslo. The debate on this issue has shown that there is a very great commitment to the National Museum, and in particular there are many opinions relating to the location and use of the building. This matter has also been discussed in the Stortinget earlier, so I want to say that the intention of the proposal is respected. Then it's important to look ahead and discuss content. In this way the representative of the Right was very constructive in this debate. The national museum wears with unsatisfactory building conditions. It concerns both safety and climate. Today's premises are too small. The consequence is that too much of the art is too little available to the audience. This is a national discussion and not just an Oslo debate. But when the focus is about localization as much as it does, more than how we get the most out of the art, it becomes a very big Oslo debate. A national museum is responsible for taking good care of the art and getting the most out of the art both for the inhabitants of Oslo and for travellers from all over the country and abroad. I think that when people from all over the country travel to Oslo to look at our national taxes, they are more concerned about seeing as much as possible in good and adapted premises and of how this art is preserved than of where in the city and in what kind of building the art is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e825	The main task of the National Museum is to disseminate knowledge and manage the most important visual art collections we have in our country. The management of responsibility for the National Museum therefore obliges us to be able to raise our eyes and to think holistically and in the long term, and that, as the authorities, we take the necessary steps in time to ensure that this administration is carried out in a consistent manner and with the resources and material conditions required by such a formidable task. The rapporteur has now explained his commitment to the matter, and that is all right. We understand that you have great views that this is going to be very good, and I hope it is. But now the debate today and the one that has gone before is not really about whether this can be very good or not. The issue in question concerns the process towards a new national museum and the process towards any new use of what is currently the National Gallery. Neither is the process, as you know, immaterial to the result. For a process of such a large national commitment, good overall assessments and broad political anchoring are required. Thus, there is a considerable political footing to be done by a government to ensure that the great ambitions and visions of such a project actually succeed. Therefore, the government must also bear the criticism that has been made in the past and that is repeated today, in terms of the process, because it both weakens the quality assurance itself in the project and creates – what to say – a different kind of attention than such a project had deserved. So far, the process of setting up a new building for the National Museum has been marked by unrest and noise, which has overshadowed the enthusiasm that the Advocate General commendably expressed. I had, as it is well known, wanted a different and broader political process both behind the establishment of a new building for the National Museum and in dealing with the question of the fate of the National Gallery. Then there is – again – the attitude we are discussing today, that the government parties have a different view of it. The Council's letter of reply to the Committee also makes that very clear. I wanted to and believe that the project had deserved a much more open attitude to the opposition's many questions in the matter. Then we recognize that there won't be a reality so far in the process, and we have to deal with that. We want to look forward, but I hope that the majority will take into account the challenges and the seriousness of the challenges posed by the opposition that are coming here, in order to succeed in what is the main task of the National Museum, namely to disseminate knowledge and manage the visual art collections we have in the country. It's a formidable task. It requires a broad public debate to succeed, and it requires broad political anchoring. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 2, from the right, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e838	I have to say that this debate really makes me a little familiar, both as a history teacher and as a politician. But I realize that Norway is a very young nation. According to European standards, we are a very young nation, and it bears the mark of this debate. Building a nation, building a capital, which we suddenly became a little over 100 years ago, was a huge and laborious job. There was a lot we missed in Oslo when Oslo became a capital. We lacked, among other things, a national gallery. We needed a proper town hall. We lacked a lot of key institutions that allowed us to call ourselves a capital in a European country. Privates built the National Theatre, and we saw that many helped to get things done. When the town hall was finished for approx. 50 years ago, the last stone in the nation building was said to be in place. Now all the key institutions that made Norway a state and Oslo a capital were in place. The European countries we compare with have had such key institutions in impending times. Then you have respect for the fact that the key institutions also play a role in telling a country's history and in telling a capital's history. And that's what we're really talking about today. We're talking about a key building in Norway's national construction, a key building in the communication of Norway as a nation, a key building in building Oslo as a capital. And then I realize that the Center Party thinks it's going to be a little bit of Oslo-centered. But this is about having a capital. It has always worn out this hall a little bit that Oslo is, but now it's an irrevocable fact that this is the country's capital. That means that some key functions in the state, in society, in culture, formation and history building are actually located in this city. One of them is the National Gallery. It was a great boost for a lopsided nation like Norway to build the National Gallery. It was a fantastic big lift. There was an important key institution in the construction of the country. Now we're about to erase it and say it wasn't important. And that's when I wonder: if you compare with any other European country, who would do anything like that? No one disagrees that we need a new national museum. No one disagrees that we need new construction for warehouses, that the indoor climate is tiring for those who work there. There's no one at all doubting it. The question is whether this important building block in Norway as a nation will continue to play a role in the dissemination of art. I think it's going to be strange to say that it's just the gold frame that's going to be there. I think it could be very exciting to mix contemporary art and old art. But it is the professionals who are the best people to assess – I have full confidence that our professionals are the best people to assess it. What's important here is that we take care of this part. This is like saying that the Storting is too small, now we're moving out of it and building a new house, and then we don't care about the old big building that's down on Karl Johan. This house has been too small, but we have found other solutions to it. This is as if the King and Queen had said that this castle is too small, now we're building a new castle somewhere else, and then we don't care about the old one, because the old one is too small, and it has an irrelevant role in this particular thing. This is not a discussion about building a new national museum. This is also not a discussion about whether to just hang things with gold frames anywhere, and something with other frames in other places. This is a question of whether to take care of an important part of the nation’s construction in Norway. As an old history teacher, I believe that the lines should be taken care of in order to take care of the new. Then this house, which has played such an important role in Norwegian history, Norwegian national construction and the capital Oslo, should actually have that role. So it's like this case is actually discussed many times in Stortinget. It's not because the government wants to have support for the case, but because some of us have tried steadily and thoughtfully to promise that big, important national action is not something to be done in enclosed spaces within a government that incidentally has a majority right now. It is about the fact that large national compromises are actually built through large national debates and not with fix faxes in the back. I would like to inform you that the Left too will vote in favour of the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e865	While the previous representative said that she was listed as a history teacher, I would like to inform you that I am acquitted as a historian of the discussion about the National Museum. For me, it is primarily about contemporary art and the importance of historical art for social development. I want it to get bigger. That's why I want to build a larger construction that can give art the place it should have in Norwegian society. I also have to say that there is a fundamental disagreement that it is almost a principle that all the old institutions should remain in their buildings. It is not the case that there is a red thread in the policies of all European countries. Many times it is good to take care of old buildings. Sometimes we can give them a new function. Among other things, we need to do this. with the old Norwegian Bank building, which the Museum of Contemporary Art holds today. I don't want to say that it was further successful to show the contemporary art in this historic building. I think we can give it a new function. The old University Library today houses the National Library. We have absolutely reason to believe that we can find a good application of the old building. So there's someone here today who almost wants me to make a final decision on what we're going to use the old National Gallery for. It is difficult for me to receive criticism both because today I do not have a fix fax clear answer as to what the old National Gallery will be used for, while I am criticized for not having a sufficient process with regard to the decision on a new National Museum on the Western Railway. I want a broad discussion about this. I notice that the Municipality of Oslo has strong opinions about what the area around it will be used for – the park has been mentioned. Others have been busy showing art in the old National Gallery; others want to show sculptures. I think this is an important discussion, but I don't want to conclude at this point. Concluding, making a quick answer, would be the opposite of having an open round on this question. I also have to say that I am glad that there is a big discussion about these questions. It shows that cultural policy is important in Norwegian context, but I want us to find a solution. The issue of space shortages in the National Gallery has been up since the 1970s. That we do not ensure our national taxes well enough, that we do not have enough fire safety, that we do not have enough theft insurance, that we do not have enough air conditioning, has been important, and therefore I would like to stress that it is important to arrive at a decision on the matter. Then I record that the Right and Christian People's Party criticizes the government for the process we had of this in advance of the 2009 elections. We announced in the 2009 budget proposal – in the autumn of 2008 – that we wanted a co-location on the Western runway. At the time, this was dealt with in Stortinget. We then informed Stortinget, through the revised national budget in 2009, and during the examination of a Document No. Eight proposals, on what was our attitude to the further process. I record that the Right and Christian People's Party wanted the government to present a big message in this context. The government didn't, but then they supported the process. Initially, the process was critical in the spring of 2009, but after that, it has been suggested that the Storting should get this case up to final assessment in 2012–2013 and promote it as a construction case. I also have a desire to present to Stortinget a matter of what we are going to use the old National Gallery for. But in advance, we need to have a process. In advance, we need to have a process with the Municipality of Oslo, in advance, we need to have a process with those who have different interests related to what this building will be used for. There has already been a seminar in Statsbyggen on how many different attitudes and views have emerged, and that has been important. There, among others, Representatives from the Swedish National Property Agency on how to get new functions in old protective buildings in Sweden. What seems to be a bad idea is to build a smaller national museum on the West Railway. I think there is a need for a new building that can give contemporary art and historical art the place in Norway's cultural policy that it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e887	The claim that the building does not meet the requirements of the museum's indoor climate, and therefore that art is being damaged, is a claim made by the gallery's former chief conservator from 1957 to 1999, which should have knowledge of this. Then my question is, what is the indoor climate? Nor has any damage to the indoor climate been detected, either on buildings or on art in the last 100 years. There should be art there, say some representatives from the government parties. But that's exactly why you move, because you're concerned about art and the indoor climate. Can the Council of State say something about it and explain why it's so important? And then I'm going to do another one: what's the construction going to be used for? Is it a reading room, is it hotel beds near Karl Johan, or is it a snobbed, exclusive shopping gallery called the National Gallery? Art can't be there, because it's such a bad indoor climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e894	I've never at any time said that the building is unsuitable for art. Some have wanted to establish sculptures there. Originally, the building was to house sculptures. I have not at any time, or on a principle, rejected that there shall be art there. What I'm saying is that our national taxes, which require the very best treatment related to climate action, theft protection and fire protection, are not suitable for being in this building if we're to take care of them for the future. But I also notice that the Progress Party has had different positions on this matter. When the matter was up for the first time, the Progress Party said that they did not want any work on a new national museum. Now I realize that it's kind of an intermediate point, where you want in both bag and bag: both a building on the west track and to take care of the old museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e901	I listened carefully to the statements of the Council of State on what I perceive to be signals that one looks forward to a matter for the Stortinget linked to the old building mass, perhaps with particular emphasis on the National Gallery, the old building. It is important that such a case also carries some of the signals that Stortinget has made, perhaps especially in the perspective that the representative Skei Grande drew up in his post. It is also important to get a certain width in this case, and that it is a matter that does not come as any line in a revised national budget or in a state budget. There must be a type of case that is either a message or something that – what to say – opens up a separate debate on this topic, which we can then do in a certain width. I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate a little on what she has thought about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e908	There are several historic buildings in Oslo that can be used for other purposes. One is the old Norwegian Bank building where the Museum of Contemporary Art is today. I'll think it's equally interesting for Stortinget to discuss this built, perhaps future use of it. The same is true of the Historical Museum, which is also an amazing beauty building and little discussion about. It may also be interesting to draw the Storting into this discussion, just as the old National Gallery may also be interesting in such a context. In terms of time pressure in this case, we do not have it. We expect a relocation from the old National Gallery 2016–2017. Then we must have a refurbishment, so that I will not promise any quick matter to the Storting from the government at this time. We have plenty of time to get a proper process, including with the Municipality of Oslo, on how to use this and other buildings in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e915	There are new and pleasant paces from the Council of State that she will bring a case to the Stortinget about the use of the old National Gallery. What I think is a little interesting in that context is that building a new national museum has been a petition or maybe two main sentences – hardly a section – in a state budget, while deciding what to do with the old building is going to be a matter of its own. I think that's fine. What I'm really asking is, what the government has really been afraid of would come out if, with its own big message, it actually decided to reorganize the museum sector in Oslo so much. What has been the fear that this debate would involve? Why would it be so very scary to let the Storting get involved in dealing with a matter properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e922	I would like to stress that I have not at any time promised a separate message to the Stortinget about the future National Gallery, but we will come back in an appropriate form with the future use of this and other buildings in the capital. The criticism we received from the opposition in the autumn of 2007, including from the Left, was as follows: After many postponements and, to some extent, awkward conditions in existing building masses, it is obvious that starting up building conditions is of great importance to the further development of institutions. So at that time, the Left expressed great concern that the work was too slow. Then we signaled the fall of 2008 in which direction we went. And as far as I can see, the Left did not want to promote any alternative to what was the government's position at the time when there was a co-location on the West Railway. Then finally there was a matter for the Stortinget in the revised spring 2009. So the left-hand side went against this. So we have chosen to explain to Stortinget in all possible ways in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e931	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e936	I have understood it so that I forgot to promote the proposal that the Right has raised in the matter, and I am promoting it. Having said that, I would like to accompany it with a comment on the line change. I think it is positive that we are now receiving signals that the use of the National Gallery is working constructively. The way this is described by the Council of State, I also think that you are on a track that I feel is positive, and as I hope we will be able to meet, so that we may be able to bring this whole matter into a slightly different and more constructive track than it has been so far. So I was a little surprised that the Council of State thought we had such a good time. We're talking about a pretty big building. We're talking about a not insignificant project. It's going to cost a lot of money to do it in, whether it's for one purpose or another. We know that this is going to cancel out in time. That time perspective is not such a very pleasant perspective for Oslo. We can risk that while we plan here, the standing space will be empty. There will be no pleasant sight, and it will not contribute to a smaller bill when the building is finally to be repaired – and it will. I might have wanted the Council of State to be a little more specific about this matter of time perspective. It's clear that agreeing to push this out indefinitely is a little long – to say it like that. At the same time, I understand that the Council of State does not want to promise a matter for Christmas or for a specific date. But I had hoped that the Storting should have had a little clearer points of view on how we can now imagine a process further, which could involve the actors in a good way. And the actors are, in particular, the Municipality of Oslo. I fully agree with the Council of State that in Oslo there is a bit of a cabal of old building mass. It is an advantage to see this in context. But it must not mean that this goes into infinity. I would encourage the Council of State to perhaps give a little signal, a little depression: what this can mean, and what kind of time perspective we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e947	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e951	I just have to repeat that I asked a question in the reply that was about what one was afraid that the debate would contribute. I noticed that I did not receive an answer. But since, according to the Rules of Procedure, the President is not yet allowed to point out that the Council of State did not respond, I must use my opportunity to do so. I also hope that the President will soon have that authority in the Rules of Procedure. The second point is the same thing as the Olemic Thommes. This is a building that is centrally located in our capital. But it's not just a building – it's actually like the state has occupied several quarters in this area, for which it is now very uncertain what to use for. If the council has all the world's time to figure it out, there's a curse over Tullin onions, which can last in the lives of many governments if we don't get any clarification about it. So I hope this is a process where you don't take longer than you have to. But I also hope that the Storting may – in all respect, President – be allowed to discuss it as well, because it is very important that this is a matter that the Storting should not be allowed to be with and discuss or have meaning about before the government concluded. So it's like this, as the Council of State referred to me in its reply, that the Left has all along thought that there has been a hurry to clarify the challenges of the National Gallery both in terms of climate, employment and storage. What we've been critical of is the process. I believe that the process is not really worthy of Parliament. The party now standing here has actually been involved in introducing parliamentaryism, and that means having 'go' in this Chamber for the things you're doing, at least don't try to deny a debate in Parliament. Secondly, I think it's important that you care about the capital, which you operate in, and have a good dialogue and run good processes, but that you also have some opinions about where to bring this capital. When the state manages to occupy such a large part of the city centre by other decisions, it must at least have a desire to make progress on what to use the two quarters for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e960	There has been a lot of discussion about this matter. I think this discussion is interesting. It is difficult to accuse me and the government of not wanting to discuss this matter. What we have been dealing with in this matter when it comes to presenting it to the Storting is quite common procedures, which were presented by the Bondevik II government in the 2005 budget proposal. It states that the impact assessment, plan and design contest and pre-projects will be carried out before the Storting will be presented with the necessary decision-making bases. And that's where we're in the process. The size will bring this matter to final treatment, but then we have to do our job in advance, with all the pre-projecting and impact investigations that Stortinget requires. We'll do the same thing. No, we don't have all the world's time on the National Gallery, but I don't want to commit to any kind of timetable at the moment. It'll be unfortunate, even considering those we're going to cooperate with. There are, as the representative Olemic Thommessen was in, a lot of buildings there are talking about in the Oslo Centre. But that we're going to involve the Storting in this work is on the clean, and I've taken the signal that you don't want this building to be empty for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e969	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e972	It's more of a fact-finding. When pushing the Bondevik administration ahead of decisions, we need to provide a little factual information that the whole process was linked to a development on the Tullin onions. In fact, a decision was taken in this case that led to the purchase of the next quarter. In fact, many institutions today find it difficult to relate to state buildings, which have bought up their premises, without knowing what prospects they have in the same premises where they have been operating for many, many years. So saying that it's the decision on space planning that's the final decision in the Storting is, of course, conditional on a completely different site, but with the preservation of the old museum as part of the new museum, that's a completely different assumption. This cannot be undisputed here from the pulpit. That was a completely different condition for the decision in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e981	I'm just taking the floor to comment on proposal No. 2, from the Right, as I think is a good proposal, and the answer from the Council of State, both in the reply from the Olemic Thommess and in the speech, was later held in the debate, where the Council of State explains that it is aimed at promoting a separate case for the Stortingen on this issue, i.e. on proposal No. 2, and come back with a debate around it. I would therefore ask the Right to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, as I consider that we agree on that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e986	The representative Olemic Thommess has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e989	I feel that this discussion is on a good track, which you can pass on. I have noticed that the Council of State will not give any time for when she will promote a case for the Storting on old building mass. But I have also noticed that she says she does not have very good time. I expect us, for example. in relation to the State budget for the autumn, there will be a signal to indicate the kind of progress you want in such a matter. If, for example, the Council of State: I propose that the Right’s proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e996	The President is probably a little excited about how the representative Olemic Thommess decided to express it after the statements of the Council of State, considering that speaking time is over – but a little nod might help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e999	I can confirm that the government in an appropriate form wants to return to Stortinget regarding this matter and other construction matters. But I can't make any promises at this point in time. It will also be natural to discuss this matter with the Municipality of Oslo before any signals are made in the State budget. We have often been criticized for providing such signals in budgetary terms and not in our own matters, so I can't promise that we will come back with a timetable for this in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1004	Can the President then see it so that proposal No. 2, from the Right, is converted? Hope, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1009	I have listened to the end of the debate with great interest. Like the Right and Left, the signatories have also noticed a positive attitude from the Council of State, in the form of wanting a good process and wanting to involve the Stortinget. In the past, we have expressed some frustration over the processes associated with what we are discussing. That is why we have wanted a signal of progress already in connection with the budget for the autumn. On the basis of the signals that have come, the Christian People's Party and the Right choose to let the proposal stand and allow the vote over it. But we take with us the positive signals that have come, and look forward to the state council returning as soon as possible in terms of progress in the matter, and that we are given the opportunity to discuss the management of the National Gallery in the width that it deserves. I would also like to say at the end of the debate that I agree with the Council of State that there is no natural law that any historic building should exist, with the use it has always had. That is not necessarily the correct answer in managing the enormous values that the National Gallery and the National Museum are currently doing. The construction and use of the National Gallery is also a form of heritage, not only the art taxes that are presented. That's why, in itself, it's a question that has large dimensions, and that's not just about the management of the content itself. I have listened with interest to what the Council of State has said. I hope you've listened to the signals that have come out, what are the wishes of the opposition. Then we look excitedly forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1023	The President has taken the view that proposal No. 2 is going to be left standing, and it's going to be over when we get that far. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1041	The ban on professional boxing was adopted in 1981 and the proposal to lift this ban has been dealt with repeatedly in the Stortinget, last in connection with Innst. O. No 79 for 2006-2007. At each session of the Grand Duchy, there has been a broad majority against the lifting of the current ban. In the introduction of the ban on professional boxing in 1981, the main argument was the medical adverse effects on practitioners. That's the same argument today. In connection with the examination by Stortingen of Document No. 8:16 for 1997–1998, the Norwegian Sports Medical Association submitted a report on the medical adverse effects of boxing. The Norwegian Sports Medical Association concludes in its report that: ‘The report demonstrates that boxing has very adverse medical consequences. Norwegian Sports Medical Association therefore strongly opposes the lifting of the ban on professional boxing in Norway.’ In connection with the matter we are dealing with today, the Ministry of Culture has obtained an up-to-date professional assessment of the medical adverse effects. The report concludes as follows: ‘The potential consequences of boxing for the performer are not controversial in the medical environment. There is broad agreement on the position expressed in the World Medical Association opinion [[(...):]] We therefore believe that there have been no new arguments that suggest that the ban on professional boxing should be lifted, rather the opposite. Over the period 2000–06, 65 deaths were reported in the ring or directly related to boxing. This is the same number of deaths reported between 1970 and 1976. About 80 pst. of the deaths suffered by professional fighters. If the medical monitoring is much more stringent today than before, the serious health consequences of professional boxing cannot be eliminated by medical surveillance. Professional boxing is far more dangerous than amateur boxing. The risk of being killed in direct contact with boxing is approx. 35 times larger in professional boxing. The difference between professional boxing and amateur boxing is not least that amateur boxing uses head protection. The reluctance to use head protection in professional boxing is due, for example, to: the fear of losing audience appeal and profit. To believe that by lifting the ban in Norway we can impose professional boxing rules other than those in the world, we think it is naive. It is claimed that the damage in boxing is not more serious than in other sports. We think it's going to be a completely wrong comparison. The special thing about boxing is that the very purpose is to damage the opponent, while in other sports you do everything you can to prevent damage, and punish both negligent and deliberate damage. The goal of pro boxing is to put the opponent so strong against his head that he falls unconsciously over the end and does not manage to get up in ten seconds. Two completely new reports, from Germany in 2010 and the United Kingdom in 2008, show that there is a high risk of brain damage by prof boxing. An overwhelming amount of data in both of these new reports shows that pro-boking causes significant and serious injuries to participants and increases the risk with the length of the career, the number of strokes and the number of lost battles. It is not possible to train to withstand head injuries, nor is it possible for brain damage to heal in the same way as for example. a muscle damage. We believe that the medical reports are so unambiguous and serious in their conclusion that there are no new arguments for lifting the ban on professional boxing. We see that the World Medical Association is working for a ban on professional boxing, and that Norway's sports association is not committed to lifting the ban on professional boxing. Therefore, the government parties in good companies with sport and a large international medical environment are when we now oppose professional boxing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1071	This is not a new issue we are discussing. As the chairman of the committee mentioned in his statement, Stortinget has regularly debated this more or less for 30 years. 30 years is long, so it's been a long time since the ban came – and 30 years are especially long in sports. I think you should think about what was the starting point in 1981. In 1981 there was a quite large and broad debate throughout the sports movement on this with the commercialization and Americanization of sports, in other words this by getting professional sportsmen who were to make money on their sport. It was a debate that really fell within most of the sports when it came to top sportsmen. You were supposed to be an amateur -- that was kind of what was the starting point. Today, the situation is quite different. The world has moved on, and today it is professional sportsmen who are top athletes, and the world has moved on in most areas. In the case of professional boxing, Norway is in the company of North Korea and Cuba, which are the two countries that prohibit professional boxing. And it's probably hardly medically justified in North Korea and Cuba. Norway is probably the only country with a so-called medical justification for it. Professional boxing is a risk sport. There are many other sports that are also, which have a much higher injury rate than pro boxing. You have riding, you have everything to do with air sports, you have alpine – or those who drive down a hill more or less on one ski or on a level – you have motorsports, and you have a number of other sports. In football, there's damage, not to mention all of the damage that's happening in the wide and mass world that's not being reported, that's what's happening to the practitioners that's further down the system. Only this weekend have you been able to read in the newspaper about several sportsmen who have suffered serious injuries and who are not engaged in professional boxing – Torstein Horgmo, snowboarder, and Lars Løkken Østli, ice hockey player. I also want to mention Tor Trondsen, who is a football player, and who has become a football invalid and has so much damage due to football playing. So damage occurs. But it's not that pro boxing is the sport where most injuries or deaths occur, so there's really no medical reason to ban this sport. If you're using this kind of argument, there's a lot of other ideas that should be banned before pro boxing. Should you end up with risk-free sports, you're probably just left with chess and snooker. There are two interesting sportsmen – and the World Cup in snooker takes place these days in Sheffield, you can see that at Eurosport, if you want – where there are not many injuries. I can't quite understand the argument you have against professional boxing, because it's respectfully not to report professionally when it comes to medical matters. Nor can I understand why professional boxing is the only sport to get a personal medical assessment, as the majority and the Council of State, in their notification, suggests. Why don't you make the kind of assessments for other sportsmen, as I mentioned, who have injuries and a much higher injury rate? I don't think – in conclusion – that if you open up for professional boxing in Norway, it's going to be a new folk sport. There's nothing to suggest it. I think you can look at the numbers that apply to the countries that we have up here in the north. Finally, I would like to address the proposal behind the vote by the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1090	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1093	Despite the ban on professional boxing, Norway has raised large names in boxing that have claimed to be international. Cecilia Brekkhus, Ole Klemetsen and Steffen Tangstad are the names of recent and current dates that show it. The Ministry of Culture’s assessment is that the updated professional assessment of the adverse effects provides a basis for maintaining the ban on professional boxing in Norway. In Europe, only Norway has such a ban. Europe has a more stringent licensing system than the rest of the world, and there has been no death in professional boxing in Europe since 1985. Professional boxing is a branch of the Olympic Games, to which Norwegian practitioners can qualify. In addition, Norwegian exercisers engaged in boxing, support, training, medical follow-up and assistance to prevent the use of the Topportidrettszentrum are provided. The Norwegian Sports Association has, through its hearing response, pointed to aspects of the international integrity of sport, which contradict the lifting of the ban on professional boxing. Uneven match between opponents, i.e. a struggle between a strong and a weak opponent is contrary to the fair-play principle of sport. This concern shares the right. The Norwegian Boxing Association, as the one responsible for sport, considers that the lifting of the ban on professional boxing must be conditional on the establishment of its own professional committee under the Norwegian Boxing Association, which is responsible for licences, the approval of practitioners, the approval of battles to prevent uneven matching and other tasks which naturally fall within such a committee. This will improve the medical follow-up of practitioners, improve anti-doping activities and bring sport under the fair-play principle. Liability and its implementation must be the responsibility of sport itself. Under these conditions, which sport itself has come up with, the Right wishes to support the proposal to lift the ban on professional boxing in Norway. One point is that if the intention of the government is to protect the health of the cans through the ban, it is pointless to allow them to participate in foreign matches and even allow a support device around them in Norway, which should therefore help them to participate in other countries. The most important thing for the Right, however, is a fundamental entry point on the integrity of sport. There's a lot to do before we, as legislators, should intervene in what seems to be the free sporting sphere. On many crossroads, when this has been discussed, the right has fallen to the point that the reasons are simply not good enough to override the integrity of the sport as a movement. It's also true that if not everyone likes professional boxing, it shouldn't be that you don't like one thing, be synonymous with banning it too. We believe briefly that the arguments put forward are not heavy enough to maintain the ban further. As far as I remember, the Right is on the proposal that the Progress Party has advanced, so I expect it to be advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1112	This may have been promoted, even though the representative of Korsberg referred to it as the proposal of the Progress Party. But as far as the President can see from the vote, the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal of the minority – so it is properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1115	The government parties stand united in this matter, and the representative Gjul has explained our views well. So I'm not going to keep any long posts here, but I wanted to comment on some of the statements made by the minority. Firstly, there is the argument that all countries around the world have legalized boxing, except Cuba, North Korea and Norway – a false claim, because there is also a ban on Iceland, which is a country we might like to compare more with than North Korea and Cuba. In addition, I would like to add that Sweden had a ban from 1970 to 2006. It was the bourgeois government that lifted the ban in Sweden, but they have quite strict conditions, a system with approval from battle to battle in terms of licensing, so that the fact that the representative Korsberg specifically insinuates that this is a Norwegian debate and Norwegian rigour is not correct. This is a big, global debate about boxing and about professional boxing and the dangers of it. I want to add what the representative Gjul said, that the World Medical Association recommends that countries ban boxing. We're going to take that seriously. Secondly, there is the argument that other types of sports, such as jumping, which was up in a radio debate the other day, are equally dangerous. For the representative of Korsberg, there may not be any difference between a head injury and a cross-band damage, but for most others, there is a high risk of having a head injury rather than getting a bone injury, for example. And then there's a fundamental difference between whether sport is designed to harm an opponent or whether the damage to sports comes as a result of an accident. I believe that the opposition in this debate debats the resistance of the medical field, that is to say debats the evidence that professional boxing is dangerous, potentially lethal and can cause long-term brain damage, and that is the purpose of the sport. I also want to quote the doctor Lehmann, who writes in the previous issue of Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association: ‘An overwhelming amount of data shows that, in particular, professional boxing is associated with extensive, serious injuries and that the risk increases with the length of the career, the number of strikes and the number of lost matches. The dynamics of the head layers are explained and, on the basis of professional criteria, there are similarities between knockout and concussion.» The message from the medical environment here is very clear. So I want to add: it was mentioned here from the representative Thommess, I think, that professional boxing is a branch of the Olympic games. It also doesn't lead to correctness. Professional boxing is not an OL branch. However, amateur boxing is part of the Olympic Games program. The toughest girl in the mountain, Cecilia Brekkhus, is a professional boxer, and according to mountain newspapers she also knocks out traditional sex roles. It is a knockout I as a feminist will support, but I am not willing to sacrifice the skulls of others – that it comes with the purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1135	Norway has had a ban on professional boxing since 1981. The main argument for this introduction was the risk of adverse medical effects. Even with strict medical supervision, it is not excluded that professional boxing can have serious adverse health consequences. Another important principle difference that distinguishes professional boxing from other sports activities is that a central part of boxing is just getting a blow to the head region. Concern for the adverse medical effects was again confirmed by the Ministry of Culture in the light of recent assessments. So there are no new, relevant arguments in this case. It is with the reason that we in the Center Party still want to maintain the ban on professional boxing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1144	There is raised doubt that there are health challenges and risks related to professional boxing. The 1998 report of the Norwegian Sports Medical Association – the pages are up-to-date – states: ‘Complete monitoring of the relationship between boxing and chronic traumatic brain damage will require large prospective studies following a boxing population for 20-30 years. However, a major systematic review of literature in the field from 2009 has concluded that there is sufficient evidence that there is a link between professional boxing and the development of chronic traumatic brain damage.’ The conclusions seem to be indisputable in this way. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party, together with members of other opposition parties, shows that Europe has a more stringent licensing system than the rest of the world, and that there has been no death in Europe in professional boxing since 1985. This does not mean that there has been no damage, but nevertheless there is a significant difference between professional boxing in Europe and that in other parts of the world, in this way. The setting indicates that boxing has an element of ethical dilemmas in itself, related to the purpose of the sport. I don't think those who are serious about this sport will join the representative Gjul's description of the sport. But it also recognizes the Christian People's Party that professional boxing has elements in it that we don't necessarily want to make. It may be said that other sportsmen are also sporty, but I understand – with reference to the hearing – that the Sports Association has problems with its relationship with professional boxing based on it, and based on the rules of play they want for sport, and the values they base on. However, the Sports Association and the Storting have slightly different roles, and what we in this room are responsible for is whether an activity has so many negative consequences that it actually justifies a ban. It's a completely different question than what kind of relationship the Sports Association itself wants to have for professional boxing. On the basis of that assessment, the Christian People's Party has reached a different conclusion from the previous one. There are many dilemmas about boxing — ethical dilemmas and health risks — but it is adult people that we also allow in other areas to put ourselves at risk. It concerns adult people who voluntarily participate in an activity that does not harm a third person, but only those who want to enter that activity themselves. The same is true of a lot of other activities that are not banned here in the country – without me going too far into examples of it. That is precisely what is, and should be, the principle of the liberal state: that we do not necessarily have to ban an activity because we do not like it. The Christian People's Party refers to the conditions referred from the minority in the setting, to how the activity should be organised if the prohibition is actually lifted. In the Christian People's Party, we assume that we have no desire to stimulate increased activity in professional boxing. But we recognize that this is a great international sport, that there are Norwegian practitioners who want to do it and who are already doing it. The toughest girl in the mountain was mentioned as one example here. It is perhaps time that Bergen's toughest girl was also allowed to live at home and do her activity in Bergen, when she has actually driven it so far that she gets razed as much as she actually stays in Norway for that activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1168	There are many funny and some sad prohibitions that have been taken up in this hall over the years. The funniest thing from recent times was that we were, for example, Forbidden roller coasters. There is no doubt that many people are injured on a roller coaster. Prohibiting it, as we did in this hall, might have been a little bit out of hand. So to be in principle, as I think we should be, in relation to things like what we have up here today. The fact that doctors believe that something is harmful, politicians should put their heart on, but it is not the case that the medical profession should have a monopoly on determining what is dangerous or not, and what is going to lead to direct bans. I think it's going to be a lot to find a doctor who finds both alcohol and smoke as very good health things that lead to better public health. I think you're going to have to struggle to find such a doctor. But that doesn't mean we're going to ban everything, sail if doctors say this is harmful to health. It's actually like that, for example. jumping in the parachute is not something you do because it is good for your health. But to intervene as a magnification, as a national power, and say that this is so bad that you actually want to ban it, then I think it must be pretty bad. Then it must also affect the freedom of others and the rights of others. That's why we've agreed to a smoking restriction on outdoors, but some of us have been very sceptical about any restriction on smoking, for example. in public places outside. These are the balances that we're always going to have here in this hall, and there are also balances that separate the parties. So I realize that someone has ended up with the conclusion they've come to. For me as a liberal, I am pleased that we have the position we have today, namely that we are going to vote with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. For me as a liberal, we clearly distinguish between what we don't like and what we want to forbid. I have to say that I have not been to professional boxing competitions, but I have been to amateur boxing competitions. It may never be my favorite sport, either to watch or to vote to and experience the mood around, but it takes a lot for me to believe that the freedom of adults to exercise that sport is to be restricted by the Norwegian Parliament. It's obvious that this is not the funniest thing to do if you're going to have good health, but it's probably not some other sports we have at the top level either. So for me, this doesn't stand out so much from other top-level sports. For example, are you. Running, as our great woman Grete Waitz was for 40 years, I think maybe the knees have a big impact on the fact that you've been doing a sport for as long as you do. She did. You get injuries from doing sports at the top level, but that doesn't mean we're going to ban top athletes in different areas. What I think is perhaps the worst, is what I think is double-moral, where you're in favour of a ban in the country, but you're very much in order for these athletes to go abroad and practice it. You're in favour of a ban in the country, but it's not like you're arresting Cecilia Breedhus when she lands in Norway, to play a sport that we think should be banned. If we really thought it was a big crime that someone was doing this, it should have been a logical consequence that we should ban Norwegian citizens from exercising that sport. Intervention in the freedom of individual citizens to engage in sport is a major intervention in the freedom of individuals. Then I think we're going to enforce it consistently, and not have a double moral attitude that it's okay that they can do it, only they don't do it on Norwegian soil, and we'd like to encourage them to do it, only they don't do it on Norwegian soil. Based on this post, you might have realized that we're going to go to cancel this. I believe that this is a logical liberal thinking. There has been a process in my party for many years, and a great debate. But the counties have now had a round of county meetings, where it was clearly what it ends with. Well, it ends with a lifting of the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1185	I agree with those who say that it is a debate with fundamental elements, but it is also a debate in which we must take into account the advice of the medical expert. First, I just want to take the opportunity to clarify a couple of misunderstandings. Olemic Thommessen claims that professional boxing is the OL branch. It's not. However, amateur boxing is part of the Olympic Games programme. And then it's also claimed that Norwegian professionals get a follow-up from the Olympics. That's not true either. There is no systematic follow-up of Norwegian professionals from the Olympic Summit. However, some have been in for training and Cecilia Breckhus has been in for a few consultations at the nutrition department and similar at the health department. But the Olympic Summit Health Department is open to all if they have free capacity. Nor is it the case that this is the only sport – on which Korsberg was involved – subject to legal regulation. It is the law of organised combat activity that allows knockout, which was adopted on 15 June 2001. This one has its own approval title. It consists of three members, and the head of the denominator is a lawyer. This name has also approved amateur boxing, kick boxing, karate and tokwondo – this is among the sports approved in this topic. So this isn't the only sport that has an authorisation scheme or a law of its own. This law was adopted in 1981. The main argument at the time was the medical adverse effects. Then there were many times the processing of this law, and discussion about this in Stortinget. The basis for the assessment at that time was medical evaluation alone. Therefore, I would just like to stress that the government's attitude in this matter is not based on what kind of sport you like or dislike. There is a medical assessment on the basis of which this case is based. In 1998, the Ministry received a report from the Norwegian Sports Medical Association, and this was not an assessment that said anything about whether this was harmful or not. But it was an assessment where the Norwegian Sports Medical Association strongly opposed lifting the ban on professional boxing. We have now also reviewed the new professional expertise in this area, and it shows that there is no significant new knowledge. However, I would like to stress that for me this is not a matter of principle. If new facts emerge that are essential in this case, I believe that this is the basis for resuming this discussion. This prohibition is not a prohibition to be imposed if there are no medical reasons. That is why we must always have a discussion on this matter, and I see that there are also different assessments of whether the adverse effects are less in Europe than in some other countries. So yes, this position has a principle side, but it also has a very real side for me – whether there have been new medical facts that suggest that there is a basis for lifting the ban. We have to have a discussion about that all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1202	I am glad that the Council of State does not have it as a principle position to be against professional boxing, but that there are slightly different criteria that set the standard. One advantage that has been gained by allowing professional boxing in Norway is that Norway can then participate in setting the standard also for medical assessments and criteria. Equality has actually been an important principle in both sport and all other areas of society. It is important to treat the various sports in a non-discriminatory manner. As the government will present a sports report, I will only ask the Council of State whether medical evaluations will be included from the various sports sections of the upcoming sports announcement, just to ensure that all kinds of sports are treated in a non-discriminatory manner, and thereby whether the ban on professional boxing can be lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1209	A professional boxing assessment is not planned in the forthcoming sports report nor is a medical assessment of the adverse effects of all sports in Norway. But I still believe that we should have a continuous discussion about this. It is such that the medical basis is strong enough to maintain the ban. If that's not the case, we should change our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1214	I understand that we do not have the prospect of allowing professional boxing in our country. So the representative Skei Grande was in on this because there's going to be a paradox that we can allow someone to do it out there and not do it at home, and in that case, what should the penalty be against them. That's not my question, but my question is, what about the support device? Now I understand that the Council of State has done an investigation into what it has actually been about. But that would be interesting for example. The Boxing Association to get a clear answer from the Council of State on whether it is such that a support device for a professional boxer will not be allowed in Norway, i.e. that professionals, as we have mentioned, should not be able to seek medical assistance or other types of knowledge and support apparatus to support their sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1223	Not long ago I was present and launched that we provide VAT compensation for a plant for amateur boxers, so I would like to stress very strongly that through several arrangements over the Ministry of Culture's budget, over the tipping funds, we are financing amateur boxing facilities. It's professional boxing, it's a prohibition in Norway, and it's not the only area. On the contrary, this is in line with how we practice Norwegian law in all other areas, except a few, that what is done abroad is subject to foreign jurisdiction, while Norwegian legislators focus on what is happening in Norway. So if you drive for 200 km/h on the motorway in Germany, you will be punished for it when you get home to Norway. In Norway, Norwegian law applies, and in many areas it is allowed to comply with the law in another country without being punished for it in Norway. However, we need to have a constant discussion about how we also follow up medical professionals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1228	I have noted the comments of the Council of State on this matter with great interest, and in particular the last thing that was said about legislation and Norway versus abroad, I am pleased to take part in the forthcoming debates between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party on different regulations in the field of biotechnology, for example. It's going to be interesting. I'm glad that the Council of State has an open attitude to the principle of professional boxing. But when she comes to the conclusion, she refers very heavily to the medical advice given. That's all right. But does the Council of State not see that it is not the medically professional environments that are going to make the final, fundamental balances of what should be law and not the law of harmful activities? It's just a government and a big one's job to make final assessments of what's allowed in a free and open society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1235	Yes, it is right, as the representative says, that the legislators are going to make the final assessment. But in this case, I find it difficult to ignore the unique medical advice we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1240	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1245	A Norwegian football talent, Flamur Kastrati, was severely injured in a football match in Germany. He was unconscious for a quarter of an hour. The irony here is that he – although I think he has probably received good medical follow-up – could in practice get up and play the game the next day. So they cannot banish him – and he was unconscious a quarter of an hour! It has been mentioned that Norway, Cuba and North Korea — some of which have also recorded Iceland — are among the countries that prohibit pro-boxing. Then I just want to add that Iceland also has a ban on snuff. They believe that it is harmful to health and have done something about it. I don't know if that's a tip, but at least that's how they evaluated it in Iceland. I can't believe the government can still go against it. I thought there was something going on. The council has said that at least you have not closed the door completely, but you want to discuss it further. What about a test scheme? Let's try a couple of years. The fact that the government parties will vote against today is a little amazing when you're so open. I understand that there are several things that need to be put in place to allow professional boxing in Norway, such as that the medical follow-up of the boxes is good, and that the organisation must comply with NIF’s rules. Some have suggested that account should be taken of ‘fair play’, that boxers do not meet other boxers who differ greatly in strength and boxing skills, but that both have a real chance of winning. There is good evidence of injury in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. It is difficult to provide evidence for Norway when the practitioners are not subject to the Norwegian Boxing Association. We have eight professionals in Norway, but there is no mandate to follow them up. Is this a good taste to have in your mouth? Is this satisfactory for the government? Cecilia Brekhus, licensed in Germany, is followed up there. Andreas Evensen has the same situation in Finland. Is it not a bit of a point that Norway should follow up its own practitioners and have control over them? Had connected, as they themselves say, been allowed, they would have introduced a stricter medical follow-up than they have in the rest of the world. They have the competence, expertise and medical devices available to enable this. And where are the professionals treated today? They are treated in Norway, but they are not controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1256	I drew myself into a three-minute post as the Council of State did not respond to my question at all in line box. I did not ask for a reassessment of professional boxing in connection with the sports message, but simply for a medical assessment of injuries in other sports – it is within the field of horse racing, in the field of ballistics, skiing, etc. It might be interesting to hear whether the Council of State will make such assessments in the forthcoming sports announcement, or is professional boxing the only sport in which to have a medical assessment in Norway? It might be interesting if the Council of State can clarify it in its article. The representative Knutson Barstad referred to Iceland. It's probably right that Iceland also has a ban, but when I mentioned North Korea and Cuba, it was to please all the SV representatives in the Chamber who like to compare with those countries. And when Sweden then lifted its ban in 2006, it cannot be used to argue that they have a ban. They have had a ban, but they have removed it and have seen the possibility of exercising their sport in Norway. I told you in my first post that this isn't about a new folk sport. I guess most people have got an overview of how many professional boxers there are in the Nordic region -- that's a very small number -- and to make some medical assessments based on that, I think, is very difficult. Many have claimed that breaking out your opponents is the big point in the sport. Then they didn't understand the sport. It's not necessarily to hit the head that gives the largest counting. Body strokes are also a very good tool, and that's how you score for the blows you're doing. It's not necessarily the one who's beaten one in the ground, who's the winner of any fight. Most of the games go on time and are decided on points, i.e. that both boxes are on their feet at the end of the game. Then, too, the boundaries between the professional rules and the amateur rules are being cleared out, so from 1 November 2010, amateurs are allowed to box within professional rules. So it turns out that sport is changing, and that will also lead to reasonably twisted situations for those who are amateurs in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1267	I would like to stress that there is not only a law prohibiting professional boxing in Norway – we also have a law on organized combat activity that allows knockout. It's a Norwegian law. So it's not right, as the representative Korsberg says, that we only have one law on boxing. We are also allowed other martial arts that allow knockouts. Whether we are going to deal with damage in different sports areas in the Sports Communication, we have not taken a decision at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1291	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1300	The proposal for a representative we are discussing, on measures to ensure greater scope for action and predictability of children and young people, proposes that, in the view of the proposers, will strengthen the voluntary sector, and in particular the children’s and youth organisations. It is shown, among others: to a report from the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, LNU, showing that there is a lack of coordination in the field, increasing red tape and unstable funding of volunteering. I would like to pay great tribute to the Left for promoting an important proposal based on the input from the organisations themselves and for raising an important topic for debate for the Culture Committee and for the Storting. The Committee's approach shows that there is a complete consensus on the importance of children's and youth organisations – and that is good. The Committee agrees, however, with the concrete measures involved, and the majority, consisting of the Government Parties, proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party support the proposals referred to in the vote. In addition, we ask for an overall assessment of the conditions of children’s and youth organisations, including incentive schemes such as tax deductions, limits on payroll and employer’s liability. be taken into account. I still get, and increasingly I want to say, feedback that the organizations feel overwhelmed by the government. The personal experience of the free will that their peculiarity is not respected must be taken seriously. In this way, I am not satisfied with the development. Urgent action is needed to simplify and improve the framework conditions of voluntary organisations for children and young people. Then I see that, on the basis of the report from LNU, the Council of State has initiated a process, and we are pleased about that, but in the light of the situation, we are very impatient with the results. The matter is largely about the freedom of organisations to live out their peculiarities and to engage in the important purposes and activities that they have. A slight reflection in this way is that the Committee has recently come back from long trips in Vietnam and Cambodia. In Vietnam, the committee heard about how freedom of religion was violated every day by the regime there. It did not mean that it was forbidden to run religious societies in Vietnam, but it consisted in requirements for registration and formal and informal control, where one constantly knocked on doors, checked up and down in thought of what a drive was doing, and in practice carried out a very rigid management. Now it's not at all comparable to Norwegian conditions. Although there have also been isolated cases of abuse of the freedom of Norwegian organisations, this is not comparable to the situation in Norway. But when I returned to Norway, I experienced that the Evening Post wrote about religious communities that were thought to give unsustainable growth relationships to the young people who were part of the religious communities. Then the Children's Ombudsman pulled out and said that we are giving grants to these religious communities. The county, which has responsibility for the supervision of the grant schemes, must now use the grants as a basis for monitoring the activities of these organisations. Then he completed the reasoning by saying that the worst is those organisations that don't receive grants, because there's no control. I'm just using this example to point out a simple point, that freedom of organisation in a free and open democracy is never a question of either – or. It is a topic that must be the subject of daily debate, daily assessment and constant attention to ensure that organisations actually get to operate freely and independently. That is when the conditions of support, as many of the proposals now deal with, are a very important basis for ensuring that organisations actually operate for their purposes and are not governed by political projects. Here we have a way to go. It shows the setting. It shows the recordings of the organisations. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1321	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has taken up the suggestions that the minority are behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1324	Like the case rapporteur, I would also like to pay tribute to the Left in order to raise an important debate on the very pillar of Norwegian society, namely volunteering, and an important part of it – the conditions of children's and youth organisations. This is a theme that the red-green parties have also been and are deeply concerned about, and that the government has already done a lot in relation to. Children’s and youth organisations provide unique local recreational services. About 141 organisations with 16,000 local teams all over the country work every day to improve our community, to include both the inhabitants, those who move to the local environment, and also new citizens. They also offer good training in democracy. In short, in addition to their core activities, they are of great importance to our whole society. The number of members under the age of 26 has increased from around 280 000 to nearly 400000 in the period 2002–2011, and preliminary figures for 2011 show that growth continues. In preparation for this speech, I presented the 2011 LNU results report. It says something that is quite in sharp contrast to what is the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. The opposition parties believe that the conditions for non-governmental organisations have changed negatively in recent years. This is not true. It also points out LNU in its annual report, where they include: writes: ‘The 2011 results report states that children’s and young people’s voluntary activities in Norway are growing. New organisations have joined, and membership increases in many of the established organisations. Targeted work from the LNU and from the Governing Boards has created a more diverse and inclusive organisational landscape.» They continue to write: «Through this results report, LNU presents an image of a vital and growing part of the volunteering in Norway.» A stronger rejection of the claims from the opposition parties shall be sought for a long time. But we also see signs of concern. Many membership organisations, 56 p.m., report spending more time on application and reporting than before. Four out of ten experienced different support managers as less or less coordinated than before. That is why this proposal is a timely debate. This has already been taken into account by the government.The LNU refers to the fact that they have been invited by the Ministry of Culture to take part in a process aimed at identifying the various simplification measures in question, and has jointly defined what measures it may be and how to deal with them in order to red tape and simplify them. This is described as very positive on the part of LNU. That is why we, representing the red-green parties, believe that the intentions of the proposal are respected. It is an important debate. The government has already done a lot in relation to increased appropriations for these organisations, to red tape, to tax relief, and to ensure that volunteering has good conditions in the future — and more should be done through the measures referred to by the Council of State in its letter of reply. That is why we believe that the intentions have already been respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1349	The President initially referred to the debate, with three lines following the intervention by the Council of State. Having consulted the chairman of the Committee, the access which proposers should be able to have to participate in the lines of action, allows the President to propose that access to up to five lines of reply be opened after the intervention of the Council of State — and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1352	Norway is best at volunteering. Nordics are still on the verge of volunteering, and that has been the case in recent years. The University of Bergen is behind a study and has recently submitted a report. The report shows that the share of voluntary work has fallen from 58 pst. in 2004 to 48 pst. in 2009. On the other hand, the number of hours of voluntary work has increased from 113 000 yearly works to 115 000 annual works. But what's special is there's a class division here. An important finding of the survey is that volunteering is increasingly an area of resource strength, while low-income, low-educated and weakly linked to the labour market is often excluded. The weak respond in the survey that they do not do voluntary work because no one has asked them. While some teams, associations and non-governmental organisations struggle with volunteering, others feel that it is not that difficult. It's important to have a setup," says Sandefjord Roklubb. They don't have any trouble getting volunteers. It's important that we have a setup, so that everyone knows what to do, and that it's arranged for what we need volunteer work for. This means that the parents of the active young people in the club are willing to do so when needed. But it's hard to get volunteers in the spear. The young start in the speed shift as small, often at the same time in several teams and associations. When sport sets demands in relation to sports, they fall out of the woodpecker – that is, this is a challenge we should take into account. I would also like to point out that social development and general individualisation in society put pressure on the child and youth freedom sector. There is a need for continuous policy adaptation and renewal, and there is a responsibility – this in order to stimulate and facilitate growth and development in the sector. Conditions for non-governmental organisations in Norway have changed negatively in recent years, despite government promises of improved organisational framework conditions through coordination and simplification. Lack of understanding of the value and nature of volunteering makes it particularly difficult for voluntary work to continue. Organisations experience a lack of coordination, as has been the case in the past. They also experience an increasing red tape, some of which have existed in the past, and strong control of volunteering. We should look at this. In particular, the most hard hit are the low-resource organisations and local teams. It's quite natural — they don't have the big resources and don't have so many to play on, because they don't have the power to follow up the increasing amount of knowledge and reporting requirements. However, today's bureaucratic system is depleting organizations for time, money and resources. VAT compensation means that organisations do not drop VAT expenditure in full and that the scheme is, in substance, a support scheme that allows management and control of the objectives and functioning of recipient organisations. The organisation's own experience of not caring for their particular nature must be taken seriously. The Progress Party will have a system that is better organised for local volunteering and for local organisations. That is why we have put forward a number of proposals that address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1372	It's a nice set of suggestions we're discussing today. It is important that we keep the debate on the voluntary organisations going, so I see this as a good opportunity to cross over a number of things that we have been dealing with on other occasions as well. When it comes to the VAT problem, we've discussed it before, I almost get to say. I want by this crossroads to be careful just to repeat what is the Right starting point. It is that we want the VAT compensation system to be set up as easily as possible and that it should not have a roof, that is. that it is based on an estimate allocation. Another issue addressed in this context is the point of balance between project support and operational support to organisations. Over a quite long period of cultural life, we have taken the view that project support is a good arrangement, because it is concrete to deal with, and because it also contributes to a sense of security or almost a guarantee that the money actually goes to activity and not to the administration within the organisations. But in some crossroads you might want to see if this still applies. And after many years with a lot of emphasis on projects, I think it's time to look a little bit more at operating aid, not least in relation to small organisations, who have a pretty big job to do to run their national business, and to assist their sub-organisations, or membership organisations. I also believe that strengthening the operational support of perhaps the small organisations, in particular, could compensate for the bias that the grassroots percentage gives in the distribution between small and large organisations. Therefore, the right now chooses to support the part of the proposal aimed at strengthening operating aid. An important topic, which is also raised, is the proposal that we want a comprehensive review of national support schemes with a view to establishing a concrete coordination plan. Some of the opposition's criticism when the volunteer register was started was that it was not organised to make the register useful to the organisations. And not long after the volunteer register was started, we were clearly informed by the Ministry of Children and Family that they could not apply for the information contained in the register, but would, as before, relate to applications. An important step here must be to find one way, which is that there is one place to report to, and one place to get information. Once a voluntary organisation has included its information on the numbers of accounts, memberships and such matters in the voluntary register, it should be possible to provide a basis for the applications to be dealt with by the ministries. And we know that at least three departments will frequently be involved in the applications: the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. The Bondevik government started quite a lot of work on a general basis, which was about that grip: one way to knowledge, and one way to get information. That, I think, is a good starting point for further work on what is a very constructive and good proposal, namely to get a uniform grip on everything. So someone will notice that the right on this occasion doesn't want to do anything about the grass root. The grass root fraction has given a biased distribution, and it's not very good. On the other hand, it's now incorporated, and it would mean a pretty big intervention against large parts of volunteering if we were to remove it. We have therefore come to the conclusion that there is no reason for us to want to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1391	In a couple of contexts in public debate last year, I registered that the word ‘dugnad’ was used as a little old-fashioned word that had expired. Fortunately, this is not the case. The voluntary nature of Norway is strong, and in the international context Norway is characterised by extremely high levels of participation in teams, associations and voluntary activities of all kinds. I'm proud of that. The voluntary sector contributes very large values in society. My figures are a couple of years old, but are about 113,000 volunteer works and a turnover of 61 billion. kr. However, the most important contribution of the voluntary sector is not quantifiable. The main value lies in the organisations’ contribution to the quality of life through participation in good meeting places, inclusion, good growth and neighbourhoods, training, opinion formation and democratic construction. Therefore, it has been important for SV to invest in this sector, and the most central strategy of the SV and government's voluntary policy is to contribute to better framework conditions for the sector. During the period 2005–2010, the Ministry of Culture’s budget for volunteering has increased to 350 million. kr. We have strengthened the Free Fund scheme after the bourgeois cuts in it, we have introduced the VAT compensation scheme, which is the biggest effort to volunteer for the state budget. It shall be escalated up to 1,2 billion. kr – a significant lifting. When new schemes are introduced, there is always a risk that red tape will be added to the purchase. We have received clear messages from both the Swedish National Council for Children’s and Youth Organisations, LNU, and parts of Freedom Norway that this scheme has come about. I just want to stress that the fact that we're introducing the new system comes from the fact that we're betting. Then we've got some bureaucracy on the purchase. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Culture has started a process in terms of how the scheme can be simplified. In particular, in the case of children’s and young people’s freedom, simple systems are important so that organisations can operate with what they are going to do – not with form completion. I would also like to highlight what others have said, namely exemption from the audit obligation at regional organisation level of less than 5 million. kr in operating costs. Now we're going to use LNU and volunteering's own experience to make our good arrangements better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1404	The voluntary sector is one of the pillars of society. Children’s and youth organisations create commitment and are important leisure activities across the country, where children and young people can develop as people and become democratic citizens. Being active in children's and youth organisations is a very good school to go. There you get both freedom and authority to organize your own leisure culture. However, in order for children and young people to have time to use their involvement in activity and their own leisure interests, it is important that there is a good public environment. Therefore, we need to take seriously that the children's and youth organisations say that applications and reporting are perceived as very bureaucratic and heavy-duty, and that it steals a lot of time and commitment. At the same time, we must remember that bureaucracy and reporting often come together with new, good arrangements. Our job is to find a balance between the need for transparency and the need for simplification. That balance is not good enough today. Under this government, we've had a big investment and a lot of focus on the field of culture and volunteering. The opposition is impatient. But I want to inform you about, and repeat again, that we are dealing with many of the proposals that are mentioned. We've already started with what's being proposed. We're in the process of simplification and mapping. Work was now done in close cooperation with the Children’s and Youth Organisations through the National Council of the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations, and it was already announced in the budget that much of this was to be done. We're not in the target of everything we've started, for example. the introduction of the VAT compensation scheme. But this is how the government has now said that you should actively listen to the volunteers, and we have started with a lot of good changes to make the scheme more user-friendly. One example is that regional organisational units with less than 5 million. kr in operating costs are exempt from the audit obligation. This is an example of what I hope we will get a lot in the future, which will include both voluntary registers and the VAT compensation system. My goal in simplification is that the relationship between the voluntary sector and the public sector is to move towards simpler audit requirements, fewer documentation requirements, better information, better coordination, less paperwork and more activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1416	I used a lot of my life before I ended up in this house working on this particular theme. And when the Norwegian Children's and Youth Council, LNU, chose to present a report on what they perceived as a vulnerable volunteer, we see in the Left it was important to follow it up with concrete proposals in this room. I noticed that it was basically just the center party that shared our commitment. But I think it's very nice to have been boasted by the opposition for promoting the proposals, because there's an ideological distinction in this room in the view of how to support volunteering, and what volunteering you support. There has been a lot of talk about how important it is for children and young people to be involved in their everyday lives. I think it's one of the words that's been most abused by politicians in this field, because while we're talking about voluntary organisations like schools in democracy, we're also good at letting them be schools in bureaucracy. It is clear that voluntary work has had a few shots for the bow in the past, which has done enormous damage to the volunteer work. The big membership scandal was really such a shot for the bow. Therefore, it is important to keep the trend of positive development, as we see in the organisations. But I think it's quite tempting for the government to claim that the positive developments are due to the government, because what I think is to devalue all the jobs done in a lot of non-governmental organisations. Nor is it that everything is perceived as simple in relation to the policy that the government has taken. That's how I think the Central Party posts were liberatingly honest. For both simplification and red tape are needed in relation to voluntary activities. Thinking that we should govern all child and youth freedom through very bureaucratic arrangements, I think is ideologically wrong. There are also errors in relation to the results that everyone wants, namely more activity among children and young people. We want a greater transition to operating aid instead of project support, which we see as undermining a lot of volunteering. We also saw a betrayal of honesty at Gina Knutson Barstad when she said that the VAT compensation scheme has become very bureaucratic. And it has, in all modesty, become. Some grips are needed to make it easier. I think, in fact, that the Voluntary Register could have been a key to doing all these steps, if you had been willing to use the Voluntary Register for it and not let the Voluntary Register be enough of a register where you're going to use the Sanctuary Course to learn what's going on. I have spent many, many nights on gym flooring and poor bedrocks in learning 10–11–12–13-year-olds steering. This means that there are a lot of boring things you need to learn from 12 to 13 to 14 year-olds who need to be motivated to carry out organizational work. Its more such bureaucratic concepts that occupy the weekends, the less time it takes for organisations to train their trust-elects in what is really the purpose of organisations: activity and ideology. Then we lose a lot on the way. I'm very happy that the opposition is standing together behind almost all the suggestions we're promoting, but I want to take the freedom to promote another one, which is distributed in the hall, and it goes on the grass root. It got exactly the way we assumed it was going to be. It is the large organisations with a large advertising capacity that have the opportunity to get money through this system. In addition, the rarities are capable of mobilizing around this. We've seen a lot of such rarities. You won't get rid of that within today's system, but I think today's grassroots system works badly. That is why we have made a slightly different proposal than what has been before, so I hope that we can perhaps get more support for the proposal that is now on the table. The fight against bureaucracy and the fight against children and young people’s right to organise their own free activity, free from both adults and authorities’ decisions, is an important battle in this Chamber. That's why in the Left we're going to continue to make suggestions on how we can do life for those who use a lot of leisure saying on this, even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1437	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1440	We see increasing child and youth freedom, and we also see that there is more activity in the political youth organisations than we saw a few years ago. I think everyone should be careful about taking credit for it, and I think that the explanation for increasing youth policy activity may be that today's youth organisations are better off than the youth organisations were when I, the representative Håbreek and the representative Trine Skei Grande were. It's a big activity, it's a big political commitment, and I appreciate it. There are many prejudices in our society that youth is so little engaged. All figures show that it is wrong: youth is more involved. Then I'm also busy looking at how we can create simplification for the children's and youth organisations. But it is quite obvious that history is also about what the representative Skei Grande had to say, that at that time signed and the other two, as I mentioned before, were active in the political youth organisations, there were substantial revelations that money had not been spent in a manner that was sound. That requires a certain amount of control. We're still demanding a new type of control, and we're getting it on the news tonight. There is the representative of Skovholt Gitmark from the Right who wants more control related to the fact that there is an Eritrean youth organisation that is receiving herbal remedies. At that time, the desire to have a stronger control of children’s and young people’s freedom comes immediately. We have also seen others who want us to have strong control of the children’s and youth organisations. Some of this initiative came from some children’s and youth organisations themselves who wanted the State to take the State aid from those children’s and youth organisations that had a different view of homophilis than the majority have. I think we should be quite careful about providing support to youth organisations depending on whether we like them or not. This is where the state is going to keep a great distance. With regard to the aid granted from the Ministry of Culture budget, which is the Free Fund funds, there is very much operational support. Whether there should be project support or operational support is decided by the Free Fund organisations themselves. If the Frifond organisations want to distribute their funds through project support, I believe that we, too, by the Ministry of Culture, should be careful to instruct them in this area. However, the reason why there is some project support for children’s and youth organisations is linked, among other things. to the assistance projects carried out by part of the children’s and young people’s organisations. There I think it's important to be long-term, but here we also have to be careful all the time that the funds are used in a good way. Not all types of aid projects run by political parties, political youth organisations or other types of children’s and youth organisations should continue as they have always done. Here, we're constantly going to evaluate and see if this is going on in a proper way. But one thing is certain: the VAT compensation system that the government has put in place is essentially an unbureaucratic system. If we had had a full VAT refund system in place, which meant that the children’s and youth organisations were to start accounting for VAT and keep track of the different VAT rates in the different areas, we would have made much higher demands on the competence of the various child and youth organisations. That's why I just want to warn you very strongly about such a solution. Then there will be more, not less bureaucracy. After all, we have increased the funds of the children’s and youth organisations in recent years. We have done so over the budget of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, but we have also done so over the Free Fund. Free-funds have increased since 2005 by 45 million. kr. If we include the games, it represents a Free Fund scheme of 170 million. kr. We must keep on the watch to see if the arrangements we set up are good enough. For this reason, we have started cooperation with the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, LNU, with a view to simplifying support schemes and making it easier for those active in the activities of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1459	There will be a succession of up to five lines of responses, as adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1462	Volunteering says – and they experience the opposite of what the Minister of Culture is saying here – that they need to spend a lot of time, resources on documentation, applications and reporting, and they are frustrated by the total amount of work involved in administering to public authorities. The problem of motivating trustees to take on administrative tasks to run the business comes as a challenge. So it's a completely different reality from that of the Minister of Culture, with what she's saying here today. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Culture: what does she think the volunteer should do to meet these major challenges that they face in their daily work, and with which they come to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1469	The main option to avoid privatisation is to say no to the proposals of the Progress Party on...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1474	I didn't say anything about privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1479	The councils are responding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1482	The main children’s and youth organisations can do to avoid red tape is to say no to the proposals of the Progress Party on the need for all organisations to have VAT accounts in order to receive full VAT refund. It will be very, very devastating. Then they should also play into the cooperation we've been working on with LNU, how we can contribute to simplification. We have a dialogue about that all the time. But it's not like the voluntary organizations draw as negative a picture as the Progress Party here is concerned with drawing. We also see that children's and youth's freedom is increasing, it does not sink.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1489	Of course, I agree with the Council's reflections on control, but we need to distinguish between what are conditions and what is control in a more traditional accounting sense. Conditions relating to grants of a different nature should be very transparent. Of course, I fully agree with what she initially took, for example. in relation to homophilia/non-homophilia and the use of money. It was once done quite a lot of work that related to the fact that you can have one channel for information. If the Voluntary Register had been designed so that once the voluntary organisations had actually submitted their information on the number of members, the economy, the accounts, the whole thing, it could be sufficient for the departments to deal with it in the further application work, that is to say that you have one portal that informs about what you can apply for, one place to go, one place to provide information and one place to get information. Is there a way the Minister of Culture could imagine going?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1496	This is precisely what we are discussing with the children’s and youth organisations, and we will come up with concrete proposals to simplify the interaction between the children’s and youth organisations with the public linked to different grant schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1502	There are signals from the government parties in the debate, and far from the Council of State, that there are some challenges in this area, and I am pleased about that. The report from LNU, Vulnerable Volunteership, which is the starting point of the proposal that we are discussing here, provides massive evidence of the challenges that exist. Nevertheless, it is positive that the Council of State then refers to its letter of reply to the Committee and has launched a project aimed at achieving concrete proposals that will facilitate the interaction between the organisations for children and young people, etc. It is nice to have set that goal, and I understand that the process has become very extensive, with monitoring of support schemes etc. The simple question is then: Will the Council of State commit itself to, and actually deliver, results that provide simplification when this process has come to an end?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1511	That's what we need to discuss with LNU. It is not certain that we agree with the principle of volunteering in all areas. We also need from the authorities that the information we get is correct. So it's not certain that we agree on all the points, but we have a dialogue with a view to meeting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1516	Me and the Council of State have a story, as the Council of State said, about experiencing the so-called membership scandal. I was advised of gross fraud, but I sat here and saw Kjell Opseth go up to the pulpit and say I'm sorry. So it wasn't just the organisations' faults. There was also a need for political Norway to have its back free. I think it makes it easier to control the fewer rules you have, the fewer indicators you have, the simpler rules you have. So the simplification process that the Council of State is notifying us is very good to start with. Now, the Council of State wouldn't commit itself to it being a simplification. Then my question is whether the Council of State will commit itself to progress in order to achieve simplification. For that process the Council of State has started with LNU now: When does the Council of State expect it to be financed? When do we start to see some results of that process?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1525	We have a dialogue now, and then we'll come back with any changes when we're done with our cooperation with LNU on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1530	Can I take another line, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1535	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1538	Thank you. Is it the case that the Council of State does not intend to commit to simplification and does it not intend to commit to when simplification is to take place? Then I wonder: Why does the Council of State have this process at all if the objective is neither simplification nor a deadline?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1543	The goal of this process is a simplification, but I can't guarantee that everyone is satisfied with the solutions we come up with. I can't do that as a politician, and I'm assuming that the representative from the Left could never do that when her party was in position. But what I can guarantee is that in the years to come, we will be investing even more in volunteering. We have done so through this VAT compensation scheme, which is not very bureaucratic and at least much less bureaucratic than what is the opposition's alternative in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1548	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1551	I would like to refer initially to the assessments made by the representative Thommes from the Right in relation to the grass root fraction. The Christian People's Party has made the same assessments as the background for our vote on that matter. In this respect, the representative Stokkan-Grande referred to a report from the National Council for Children and Youth of Norway, which was thought to have strongly refuted the opposition's criticism. I will, with all due respect, call it a powerful intrusion. In the report that underlies the proposal we are now discussing, Vulnerable Volunteership, which came in the fall, says LNU in the summary chapter, on page 26: ‘LNU is deeply disappointed that the promises of coordination and red-green government declarations and voluntary notification have been broken. The LNU believes that the cultural promise cannot be said to be fullyimplemented without fulfilling the commitments of coordination and red tape from the Soria Moria Declarations and the Freedom of All.’ The report gives a very thorough record of chapter chapters of the conclusions reached, which form the basis for the proposals in the case. Among other things, there is an example from Nesodden Nature and Youth, which Andrea Åsvang started when she was 13. She says the following: ‘If we had to fill out a large form and record every time new members of the board were elected, it would be a little... negative attitude.’ Point by point, the report shows how the schemes are not designed to enable the children’s and youth organisations to function on the basis of their specific nature. Voluntary activities are not one of many sectors of society to be taken into account. Voluntaryness is the very society. Voluntaryness is what we all live in every day. The report has a very striking title: Vulnerable volunteering. That is precisely the vulnerability that politicians need to protect. Once again, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that, based on the clear evidence available, the Council of State must undertake that the outcome of the process, which has clearly become quite extensive, must be that some of these conclusions must at least be followed by the government. The result must be simplification, red tape and thus greater freedom for organisations to operate with what they are actually going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1572	I think the representative, Håbreek, was injured not to get what I said, when I brought my quotes from LNU's annual report for the previous year. The background to my opinion was the comment from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party where they claim that the conditions for non-governmental organisations in Norway have changed negatively in recent years. That is clearly a false claim. It also shows the results of LNU, which report growth in the number of organisations, growth in the number of members and high levels of optimism in the sector. We're happy to see that. Then I think it is timely to refer to what the organizations themselves say, when the opposition tries to paint an image that is completely black. Then there are some things in the opposition's proposal and in the original Left's proposal that I think show a commendable commitment. Organisations themselves point out that they spend more time on bureaucratic arrangements, reporting and application writing. That's something we've already seen. That's exactly why Anniken Huitfeldt has invited these organizations to cooperate, to do something about it. Because none of us are interested in or especially served by a situation that is perceived as bureaucratic. That is why I feel that what the opposition is proposing, and what the Left has proposed in its proposal, are proposals that have already been taken care of. So we don't have to sit and wait for the opposition to come forward with its proposals. Governments have already started that process. Then that process has to go its own way. But you have the intention of getting a less bureaucratic situation for the organizations, otherwise she would not have invited you to a meeting. Of course, we are all impatient — the Council of State too — after knowing what action it will be, so that we work hard to get ahead of that work. But to claim that it has changed negatively in recent years is, with respect to reporting, just customs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1582	That was in so far as a clarification was made by the representative Stokkan-Grande. But he mixes two relationships. When this Andrea of the Nesodden Nature and Youth or other organisations around the country are able to recruit new members, it is not necessarily the merit of the representative Stokkan-Grandes, other red-green representatives or the government. Whether the involvement in organisations increases, whether they succeed better and do a great job and more people want to be in the fight for the environment or for other good or for some bad purpose, it is actually their own profit. There is no evidence that the conditions have improved. Then I will acknowledge that there have also been positive initiatives by the government in terms of volunteering in the last few years – it should just be lacking. But what is pointed out in the report Vulnerable Voluntaryness is a step towards increased bureaucracy and increasing problems. There I see that we agree. That's good. Then we'll get it from there. We are clearly divided by voting, but then we have to put the greater hope in the process that the Council of State has set in motion. I accept that the goal of the process is actually simplification. But then it's like -- it shows a lot of experience from politics and from different sectors of the world -- that when governments want to get something, the bureaucrats work both better and faster if the Council of State is so clear that you set a deadline for when you're done and what you're going to deliver. With those words, I want the Council of State to be happy with the process, and I hope that the goal is achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1589	As I have been working on these codes for some years in my life, I have to say that sometimes politicians become so concerned with millimeters of justice that it becomes meter injustice. You get so busy measuring organizations against each other that you're not able to take the big grips. Sometimes you also have to be willing to lubricate the system if you're going to take the big grips, and I really want the Council of State to be happy to try to do something with these simplifications. It's a big job, and it's important that you don't draw so much into the millimetre injustices that can happen when we see that there are major problems in bureaucracy. Then I have to say to Stokkan-Grande: Young Left has tripled in recent years. It's not because of this government – or maybe it is? It is at least not because of this government's voluntary policy, but it is possible that other parts of this government's policy have led to the young left having tripled in a few years. But I think it is dangerous if we politicians are to take credit for what is now happening in many youth organisations. Because I think what's happening is a trend that's about young people being much more active and caring a lot more than what they've done in the past, and I think through our school system we're able to educate many people who want to be with and influence their lives and lives around them. I also believe that there are certain youth uprisings that have other outcomes today than during the youth uprisings of the 1970s, and that they also get a lot of resistance to the system in the way I think is good. But I don't think we politicians should take credit for that actually happening. Finally, to get back to the so-called membership scandal: I think maybe that's what's been cured a little bit now; the fear of writing up new members on the list, you'd be bomb-proof that all receipts were in the right pile before you dared to deliver the membership list, is about to drop the roof of the organizations. We the "old people" who were doing it have kind of died out. Under the membership scandal, one of the trustees in the SU said that if we were to follow all the rules, we would never have time to plan the armed revolution. That, of course, is an advantage too! But in fact, the legislation we have today is undermining a lot of the activity we have, and if we don't get a simplification, we won't be able to build on the growth we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1598	It is still good that something prevents armed revolution!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1601	I would like to stress that the youth organisations themselves have the credit for increasing activity. But the LNU results report, page 5, says: ‘The work done by the LNU and by the Governing Boards has created a more diverse and inclusive organisational landscape.’ This targeted work will continue in the simplification work for youth organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1611	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Case No. 6 and Case No. 7 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[Fotation, see page 3793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1640	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1649	The big thing is today dealing with two things that are very similar to each other, so that both, as I experience it, are constructive notions of what the Cave can be used for in the future. The cave has been the home of deserved artists since 1922, and there is a great deal of commitment about the future use of this building. Much of the exposure is aroused every time the Cave becomes free – so in this context as well. I think it's positive with this commitment. We have seen suggestions for alternative use of the building mass, but also many suggestions for who could be current residents now that the government has actually decided that it should still be an honorary home for deserved artists. But the Committee, minus the Advance Party, makes it clear that the management of future use of the Cave is the responsibility of the government. Both of these proposals contain the proposal to establish a Wergelandsmuseum in Grotten. In this context, I would like to remind you that today there is already a Wergelands exhibition at Eidsvoll, and that more new museums are currently being planned in Oslo, which we have also had examples of earlier today. I would also like to remind you that the Progress Party in its alternative state budget cuts the budget of the Ministry of Culture by 1 billion. kr. They give less money to national construction than any other party, but in this case they will impose a new one. It could have been interesting and tidy if the Progress Party was clear on where this money should come from. The government parties – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV – have agreed not to accept these proposals, both because we consider it the government's responsibility to deal with this issue and because the government has already decided that it should be the home of deserved artists. Now we're all meeting up with what the government's coming up with about who's going to be a new resident of the Cave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1662	Wergeland called himself the older brother of the Norwegian Constitution for good reason. New use of the Cave could play a central role in the 2014 Constitutional Jubilee. Here Wergeland wrote a number of works, and here he also wrote the history of the Constitution itself. Nothing could have been more in the spirit of Wergeland than that the Norwegian State, just in the constitutional year 2014, marked the cave as Wergeland's place and constitutional memory. The discussion of the future use of the Cave has gone in the media between the followers of the renewed use of the house as an honorary home for artists on the one hand, and those who want a memorial and dissemination site for Henrik Wergeland on the other. The cave is one of the most striking and best-preserved artists’ homes Norway owns. Wergeland himself designed the house and lived there shortly before his death in 1845. Here he wrote several of his main works, including: «Jewish» in 1842, «Jewish» in 1844 and «The History of Norway» in 1841–43, which continues to maintain its positions as a pioneer work. Few people have played a similar role as Wergeland for the establishment of a Norwegian national consciousness, both culturally and politically. Our country has barely fostered any major lyrics, and hardly any cultural personality with a wider spectrum. He was a historian, a publicist, a dramatist, a lyrical, and an unstoppable political activity in the battle for the realization of his democratic and humanitarian ideals. Wergeland was given a crucial role in the establishment of the Norwegian literature. Wergeland's thoughts and his extensive cultural efforts still have great topicality. His home should be made a place where it can be continued and further developed in the pact with the needs of new age. This can be done by the government making the Cave a place for active cultural work and active cultural dissemination. The site can partly act as a pure Wergeland memory and a place for the dissemination of the inheritance from Wergeland, in line with e.g. Ibsen Museum in Henrik Ibsensgate, Bjørnstar Bjørnson's Aulestad and Sigrid Undset's Bjerkebæk, and on the one hand it can serve as a work place for artists and cultural workers, authors and composers – thus combining this for the best of all, as is the case with other artists' homes, for example. Emma and Olav Duun's home in Holmestrand. A flexible management of the Cave will make the house an inspiration for creative activities of a different kind, without binding it up to the function of a single artist. We're talking here about binding the house for 20, 30, 40 years in time. New use of the Cave can contribute to activities, dissemination with broad popular appeals, in a similar way as we see has happened with the House of Literature. But in the Cave, the dissemination can be directed more directly towards the ideas that are central to Wergeland's extensive authorship, and linked them to matters of great topicality today. The cave can become a cultural center in Norway, while the house still honors the creative person who got it traveled and who lived there himself. In this way, we can carry on the inheritance from Wergeland in the best way possible. Then I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1679	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1682	I think it's great that we have an honorary home in Norway, an honorary home unlike a guest studio that you have a few years. This is a place where you get your life out. I think it's great that the name of Wergeland is attached to this honorary home. His name and those who have lived there later add alone to the fact that it really is an honor – it is truly a proof of favor – to be allowed to use this building as a dwelling. I believe that it is also an important function and an important value to bring forward. I believe that it bears a strong historical line, which emphasizes not least the work of Wergeland and the position of Wergeland in Norwegian cultural history. Then it is clear that the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in one form, and the Left in a slightly modified form, can at first sight have a narrowing effect. Opening the house, running a business there, is something that, as I said, at first sight could be thought to join. But when it's said, first of all, there's something about keeping the honorary home, which I've been up to in the first place. And secondly, the functions that you think you put there are quite well taken care of otherwise. There's no shortage of a place to sit and write in Oslo. And then the question is, what about Wergeland? Wergeland's house on Eidsvoll is not a traditional Wergeland museum – it is also called the Rikspolitische Zentrum. It's more of a place in line with Wergeland's ideas and what he stands for in our history. It's a center of thought and communication of political history. Now the facilities at Eidsvoll are consolidated with the People's Museum. It would be natural for the People’s Museum – or the consolidated unit – to bring together the signals that these proposals bear, and go through a little bit of how Wergeland, in a more historical-museal sense, is presented and made available to perhaps the younger age groups in particular. At Eidsvoll there are also development potentials beyond the exhibitions that are there today. Maybe you could just bring such a perspective into such a context. So I agree that it is the government's concern to find out who will be able to live in the cave, but I think it is also the right of the Stortinge to have the opportunity and the right to believe anything about the use of the building. So I think it is positive that we have received these proposals, and it is positive that we get this debate around them. It will be able to raise perspectives in the further work both in relation to the Cave of Honor and the position of Wergeland in – let's say – Museums-Norway or the way he is shown. But we also end up with the majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1695	I had really hoped for some more temperature in the debate, because I had a good Wergeland quotation – a come back, president: insults breed ‘only pearls in my heart’. Now I didn't get a chance to do it, but I did sneak to it anyway! Spooky side: The representative Stokkan-Grande has explained well the majority's views on this matter. There are several considerations to consider in such a question. One is, as the proposers are concerned, public access to cultural memories, as the Cave is. The second is, as other speakers have said, the conditions of the artists and the performance of the function that the Cave has had for nearly 100 years. I have also recorded in the public debate that there has been some scepticism about the possibilities of creating a museum that is related to how much space there is, and whether there is the possibility of rolling and having new exhibitions there, which is absolutely necessary if you want people to come back. Then you should have more than one theme. Otherwise, like the representative Thommessen, I think it's great to have an artist's home in Norway with a historical sus. It's also what Thomsen's representative was into, one of the best-preserved artists' homes in Norway, and so it's nice that it's used by writers and artists, who give a nice frame around it. Otherwise, I hope the Minister of Culture will bring with him recordings from people and fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1708	As the case's rapporteur explained, Grotten has been the state's home for artists since 1922. The discussion about the future use of the building has created a great deal of commitment, and there have been many suggestions as to who is suitable as a new resident, but also as to whether the cave should have a different use and function than it has had until today. The majority of the case believes that it is essentially the government's responsibility, and the Council of State recalls in its letter to the Committee that there is already a Wergeland exhibition at Eidsvoll, and that there are several new museums under planning in Oslo. In addition, it is a practical challenge that the Cave will be too small as a museum and that there is some protection. It is part of and prevents many provocative and good suggestions for alternative use of the building. On the basis of the information provided earlier by the Chair, but also in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, I support the assessment to the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1717	I do not have much to add to the rapporteur's excellent introduction and presentation of the majority's views. I also think it is great that we in Norway have a state-owned home for deserved artists. It is a tradition that is good and that should be respected. I also share the majority's view that it should be the responsibility of the government to take the final decision on who will receive that honor. Then there is also a responsibility for the government to ensure that that decision exactly respects that tradition, and ensures that the decision reflects the special and unique arrangement that this actually is. In this respect, I would just like to mention: there have been many creative proposals in the public debate about who deserves the credit. Tradition suggests that there is a creative artist living in the Cave, because just then the dwelling becomes an arena of creative art, and it helps to strengthen the value of such a tradition. If there is a purely performing artist who sleeps and eats there and has it as his home, but who travels out to practice his art, for example. in concert halls and other premises, that tradition also loses some of its value in my opinion. It is an element that should be included in the government’s assessment. I have other confidence that a thorough process will be carried out and that wise decisions will be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1726	If the Cave is still to be honoured, I do not doubt the government's right to decide who will live there. I have today doubted a lot about the government's right to do things outside of the Storting, but I'm not going to move into this here. The left disagrees that this should only be an honorary home. Not to be demeaned by the representative Thommessen, but a little bit of the reason why I think a lot of the argument that Olemic Thommessen made was a little old-fashioned. If you think that an established artist doesn't have a home and you think it's really nice to get one, I think the Council of State has a little less artists to choose from today than you had 50, 60 and 70 years ago. The artists who walk restlessly around Oslo streets and not seas have built their own home when they have achieved to become so familiar that they can actually be awarded an honorary home, I think it's very few of them. There's probably some, but it's a big challenge to find them. They don't get to live in the Cave either, because it's actually artists who are married – as our last Cave-dweller was – there, for example. The wife when the man disappears may leave the artist's home. This means that today's social structure, today's family structure, today's housing structure, etc. becomes a little old-fashioned institution, and it's quite demanding for the council to find someone who fits into it. If you're not going to have the kind of artists who actually have a slightly floating relationship with their own home, namely those who travel out to practice their art, then it's starting to be very limited who the council has to choose from. That's the main reason left has looked at other ways to use Wergeland's house. Wergeland represents an important tradition and values in the construction of Norway as a nation. When he said, "I'm nothing but a poet," he was wrong. He was an important ideologist both for Norway as a nation, for our constitution, for values that we declare as common. Yes, in my childhood he was a great animal protection ideologist. For me as a child, Wergeland was the one who saw that animals had a self-esteem. It was an important part of my political awakening as liberals and as a green politician. That's the values we think it's important to make a center for. We also want to connect it to the Constitutional Jubilee that we are facing. Thus, the Council of State has a unique opportunity to create a centre of what was Wergeland's values, Wergeland's poetry and the spirit of time that Wergeland stood for, which was extremely modern, which was extremely groundbreaking, and which can provide many opportunities for artists and academics in exactly the breakup associated with Wergeland's values. It has fallen out a word in the Left's proposal for a decision, but it's probably only we who vote for it, and since artists are also often academics now, it doesn't do much. The original proposal was that we wanted it as a place of work and residence for both academics and artists, but with the possibility of bringing in exciting people, as we have done, for example. in the free-town author system, where we give people, both researchers and performers, the opportunity to be able to perform by having this as a base while doing a job, while at the same time creating a center that can be a good partner to the House of Literature a little further up the street. That's the background for the Left's position. After hearing the Olemic Thommess, I want to quote Nicolai Wergeland – not the Wergeland we are talking about here – who said: "Missing not a mighty man his happiness. A gold-plated shoe may also be printed.’» Finding artists who are willing to leave everything for a few years in an honorary home, I think is a demanding task for the council, a task I would like to free her from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1746	Should the representative address his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1750	Yes, I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1755	That's it. Step Skei Grande has taken up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1758	I don't want to be ‘liberated’ from this task. Rather, I think it is an important responsibility for the government to find out who is going to live in this honorary home. After all, it has become part of the history of this building. This is where the story lies now – in that Wergeland has lived there, that Överland has lived there and had his workroom there and that Nordheim has had it. It's a little interesting in this debate that the two parties that believe that the National Museum should be what it was originally built for, forever, now in this discussion will jump on what has become this building's historical tradition, that it's an artist's home. I believe that we in Norway are good at making fun of many people – academics, good business people, sports clubs. But I believe that as a nation in very many contexts, we are far too little good at appreciating our foremost artists. This has gradually gained a tremendous symbolic significance, and sometimes we're going to afford to give the artists that recognition. The state gave Wenche Foss honorary pay. We have some people who are state fellows. Many have taken a distance from it and say that it breaks with some kind of similarity thinking, and that it has no function today, but I think we should be good at recognising the art of the highest class. I've been working on this decision for a while, and I'm not familiar with the description Trine Skei Grande gives of how difficult this is. Yes, it is difficult, because there are many good artists in Norway, but I am convinced that we find a worthy heir to the Cave. This is also a very small house, so to believe that there will be a large center, a kind of brother to the House of Literature, I mean to testify to rather low ambitions, because I think that the one who will live in this house will create art, or practice art, that will stand for generations. Wergeland's poetry did this, and Nordheim's compositions will contribute, and Arnulf Överland's poem has also contributed to this. I believe that we have a lot of centres for academics in Norway – they are enough of them – but we only have one apartment of honor. And I think it's absolutely right that we, as a young nation, take care of some traditions when it comes to recognising the art.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1776	There is no doubt that it is the responsibility of the government to decide what Cave is to be used for, but it may well never be wrong with a dialogue, a recording and a discussion around it. They are not random proposals from the Left, from the Advance Party, and many artists have made representations to the Council of State. I think even they've asked for a meeting with the Council of State to air their thoughts on this. What I feel now is that the Council of States is criticizing both the Left and the Advance Party and the various artists for being a little tense and creative. But let's get a dialogue, let's get into the discussion about what the house should contain. But I understand that the Council of State has locked itself up – this is what I'm going to decide, Basta!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1781	Since Arne Nordheim died, there has been a discussion in Norway about what we're going to use this home of honor for. There's been an open discussion, and I've got a lot of input. But at some point, I have to publish to Norway which way you work after, whether we want it to be a museum, whether we want it to be a kind of center for academics, or whether we want it to still be an honorary home. More than six months after Arne Nordheim left, I announced that it was the last government that worked for. After this, I have received many impressions about who should live there, and I stress that the government has made a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1786	This is just a little clarification, because I do support the Council's reflections on this. But then it was the representative Skei Grande, who claimed that spouses – widows or widowers – had to move out if the one assigned to the dwelling died. As I see it now, for example, it is Nordheim's widow who has found it natural to look for another place to live, and there must be a reason that will be possible to care for. I just want to ask the council if it's not a natural thing to bring up when you make an agreement. I assume that there will be an agreement with the person who is given this opportunity, and then one must be able to take – let's say – normal family considerations around such a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1793	There was a discussion about this in the run-up to the passing of Arnulf Upperland. The widow lived in the cave for years. An agreement was made with Nordheim when he moved into the cave, that if he went away before his wife, she would have a good opportunity to continue living there for a while, and then housing would be put at his disposal if he had no other dwelling. That is what is happening in this case. She has spent about a year moving out and has another dwelling that she wants to move into.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1798	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[Fotation, see page 3794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1808	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1832	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included in the vote, while proposals Nos. 5 and 6 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Four and five from the left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish its own project organisation for the implementation of the intercity project in the East, including the Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer sections, as well as a new link to Hönefoss and upgrading of the railway towards Stockholm.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the intercity project is given the opportunity to issue government-guaranteed bonds in the market’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1863	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a State loan scheme for infrastructure, and to present it to the State budget for 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1878	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1881	President! We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1886	Then we have received another message. We have been informed that the Left votes in favour of both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox But that's not true?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1891	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1896	Then we have to talk to our data a little bit -- it takes a little bit of time. The left will support proposal No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1901	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1906	That is when we vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for life-cycle centre prices to be used in the construction of large railway projects within the InterCity Triangle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1925	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the intercity project is implemented on the basis of a State regulatory plan.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1947	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case concerning the future use of the old building mass of the National Museum.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1977	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up and the proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall assessment of the maintenance of the National Gallery of Organisational Surveys as a point of view for our historical collections.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e1997	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to repeal the Law of 12 June 1981 No 68 on the prohibition of professional boxing I Law 12 June 1981 No 68 on the prohibition of professional boxing is repealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2036	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 6 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the left, which reads: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the grassroots regime and rather for the introduction of a scheme that takes greater account of the principle of latitude’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2066	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the national support schemes for children’s and young people’s organisations, in particular and the voluntary nature in general, and to draw up a concrete plan for coordination and simplification for non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that a greater part of the support to children’s and youth organisations is provided as operational support and not project support.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess further measures to simplify and red tape the VAT compensation system, and to ensure its satisfactory stepping up.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the Register of Freedoms based on the wishes of organisations, not the needs of the State, and to ensure full funding of the register.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to provide an overall assessment of the conditions of the child and youth freedom sector, including incentive schemes such as tax deductions, limits on payroll obligations and employer’s payroll obligations, etc. be taken into account.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2108	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate the work of establishing a museum in honor of Henrik Wergeland’s authorship and life in Grotten.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2135	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the establishment of a Wergeland Centre in Grotten before the anniversary of the Constitution in 2014. The Centre shall act both as a place of creation, active cultural dissemination and as a temporary place of work and residence for academics in the spirit of Henrik Wergeland.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2165	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate the work of establishing a museum in Grotten in honor of Henrik Wergeland’s authorship and life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-02.ana.ud2323e2269	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
