ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e51	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e54	I am delighted to promote a proposal by the representative of Olemic Thommess and myself for the amendment of the law on parental death.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e59	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e62	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Håbreek, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative on an obliging plan to ensure security of supply for electricity and to prevent future power crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regular manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e83	Recently, there has been a great deal of focus on the growing debt of Norwegian households, and that for good reason, and many express concern about this development. Today's lookup in the VG confirms this concern. Despite that, we borrow money as never before. Last November's figures show that Norwegian families are probably indebted to $2.1 billion. kr. Much of this debt is rooted in housing, but a large part of it is consumer debt – too much so, many say. Low interest rates and high levels of employment mean that most in Norway are able to manage their own personal economy according to the good old principle of by industry. Although most tackle their personal finances well, unfortunately we record a trend where more and more problems arise, and a good indicator of that is looking at the number of debt collection cases and the number of applications for debt regimes. According to figures provided by the FSA, debt collection companies in the first half of 2010 handled around 3.4 million cases, which are an increase of over 200,000 cases compared to the first half of 2009. At the same time, no less than 2.8 million new cases were brought in to the debt collection companies, or 15,485 cases every day. I repeat the number: 15,485 new things every day, a number that only reinforces the concern that many express. But it's important to realize that even though the number of debt collection cases is very high, most people make up for themselves. If we look at the number of applications for debt regimes from the tax authorities, it has increased by 24 pst. from the first half of 2009 to 2010. Here's the biggest increase in big cities, where there was an increase of 56 pst in Oslo. during the same period. For this reason, it is understandable that more and more people are unable to make up for themselves. What gives rise to additional concern is that debt and debt collection are increasing sharply among young people. The figures from the SSB confirm this development. The numbers show that we've had an increase of over 50 pst. in recent years, and that in addition negative comments have been recorded for a total of 1 billion. DKK in the age groups up to 34. It's serious. Today's young people are being subjected to a much greater purchasing pressure than when we grew up. We had our catalogues from which we ordered goods, but today's young people are subjected to buying pressures on many other and different arenas than what we did. We know the impact of advertising, whether we meet it in the shopping malls, on TV or in magazines. But the new thing is that the Internet brings «digital malls» with an infinite range of goods right into your home. Social media have product advertisements that are tailored to your user profile. Facebook is such an example, and on so-called pink blogs you are also exposed to product advertising. And when you log out of these services, you meet several ads that offer you to borrow cheap money so you can get funded the products you got offered on your PC. And if we take a walk at shops in the malls, we meet posters with the message "Buy now – pay in 3, 6 or 12 months". We have just been through a time when the money was really placed between our hands, and if we did not have money, it was solved by a very attractive offer of cheap money: «Lending up to $300,000 without a requirement for security and bailouts.» The last message is the part of the ad that will capture yours and my attention to contact the loan institution. This kind of ad, as I know, is not illegal, but it is possible to ask questions about the ethical and morals of this kind of marketing. And we know that many who are in a difficult debt situation often use such 'dreams' with the aim that old debt can then be paid with new credit card debt. I was contacted by a debt advisor in my home country who asked how it is possible for a person to receive 10–12 credits from different companies – of which two–three credits from the same company – of nearly 1 million. kr without ‘owning’. I'm asking the same question: how does it work? I do not have the answer, but I wish we could say that this should not be possible. And we've all been offered increased frames and new credit cards every day of the year. It's happening all the time. I think such a link between advertising and debt financing helps to form the purchasing press at an early age, creating the impression that money is an offering product on the same line as clothes, photos, etc. It must be allowed to point a finger at both credit card companies and credit institutions running such aggressive marketing as we record happening. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Consumer Ombudsman alerts a review of whether today's marketing is in line with the Marketing Act. In order to overcome this major problem, it needs to cooperate – from the public via our consumer organisations to banks and credit card companies. Then it's important to bring the most important actor, the borrower himself. A main message must be that they have a separate responsibility to understand their actions. But many people need enough help on the way, and then knowledge will be a central theme. Contributing to conscious and competent consumers is therefore an important objective of the government’s consumer policy. It is nice to record that some banks also contribute to a level of knowledge towards young people. I am aware that Nordea bank offers free teaching material to the schools, which I think is very good. It is not difficult to understand that being a slave to debt is problematic. Forced sale of dwellings, divorces and mental disorders is often a consequence of cold water. Debt problems are one of the main reasons why people come under the concept of poverty. And most of the time, the kids become the biggest losers when that happens. Then it is no longer a ‘only’ issue for the individual — it will eventually also be a social responsibility to help those involved out of such a difficult situation. Getting people out of a stressful debt situation is an important part of fighting poverty. One of many measures to combat poverty is, among other things: reducing the financial burdens associated with the enforcement of defaulted debt. The government has taken this seriously. The extension request fee has been greatly reduced in relation to the level imposed by the Right-Original Government of Bondevik. The same has happened in terms of reducing the costs for which the debtor may be liable in connection with debt collection. Both of these measures are important contributions to make everyday life easier for those in a difficult debt situation. We know that the municipalities under social law and the Debt Regulations Act are obliged to assist people who have debt problems. Unfortunately, studies carried out by the Consumer Council show that this offer does not work in much of the municipality of Norway. That should and should not be the case. The government has also strengthened the requirement of the Financial Contracts Act, such as: deals with the deterrent obligations of creditors towards borrowers. I would like to stress that this obligation not only relates to discouraging credit, but it is also an obligation to disclose the content and consequences of the credit agreement. In 2010, this obligation was further reinforced by the need to be able to demonstrate in writing. This measure may be particularly important to young borrowers. All of this is good prevention – the question is whether it is being properly practised. One might wonder how a credit company should be able to perform a «5 minute» credit rating or to grant a loan via SMS. It should be said here that our banks have a generally good credit rating, but you can probably ask questions about what we see some credit institutions and card companies practice in the market. The issue addressed by this interpellation is not a responsibility that should be borne by the individual borrower or by the public alone. As mentioned above, we should not relieve the individual borrower of responsibility, but I would like to be clear that credit institutions in general should bear a much greater share of the responsibility for defaulted loans, as a consequence of their partly aggressive selling and marketing methods. There are many measures that can be taken to try to mitigate these developments, and something needs to be done. I believe that further action on the collection or debt regime should be considered in order to limit the social and economic impact on society and the individual consumer. Furthermore, a look at how one can improve the ability of debtors and creditors to enter into an out-of-court debt agreement. More responsibility should be given to the financial industry in the form of the choice of selling methods and product information from the provider – and not least the awareness of ‘good business practices’ from the provider. From the public point of view, better provision should be made for the provision of correct and equal information to credit institutions. In this context, the Storting should look at the establishment of a common debt register. Many fear that this negative economic development that we see among young people can create long-term effects for a whole generation. It's serious. We all have a responsibility. And that responsibility has gradually become not only a heavy one should bear for them, but it has also gradually become a heavy one to bear for society in many areas. Something needs to be done to stop the galloping debt trend we record is happening among young adults — it cannot be allowed to continue. I have mentioned a few measures – there are probably many other good proposals. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e138	The government has the priority of reducing poverty. The most important thing we do to reduce and combat differences is that in Norway we have been able to keep unemployment low during a period of financial crisis and major challenges in the international economy. It's one of our greatest victors in recent times. Combating differences and reducing poverty are at the same time different measures in different areas to combat economic inequality. The government has reduced fees, provided a significant reduction in collection rates, strengthened consumer protection against debt problems and strengthened consumer protection. In recent years, there has been a significant focus on credit both at national and EU level. In order to strengthen consumer rights in this area, the Stortinget, on the initiative of the government, has made several legislative changes, by the spring of 2010 at the latest, in the implementation of the Consumer Credit Directive in Norwegian law. The legislative changes aim to prevent consumers from getting into debt problems they will not be able to deal with. In addition, it has been important for the government to ensure that the legislation is complied with in practice. Here, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Consumer Ombudsman have a key role to play. With regard to rules to prevent consumers from having problems repaying the debt, I would like to mention in particular the bank's deterrence obligation, which gives banks an obligation to advise customers not to take up credit if the financial situation of their customers so warrants. At the initiative of the government, the obligation to withdraw now also applies to the purchase of credit. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that we have been given a legal rating obligation and that there is also an explanation obligation when establishing credit agreements. In addition, I can mention that the information obligations of credit institutions towards the customer have been increased at all stages of the credit granting process. There is also a right of withdrawal in the case of credit agreements, which enables the consumer to withdraw from the contract without justification within 14 days. In my view, in the event of breach of creditors' obligations, there are also more adequate and satisfactory sanctions. Overall, in my view, we have a good credit framework, which goes a long way in protecting consumers when they conclude credit agreements. However, it must also be possible to impose certain requirements on the individual himself. The starting point must be that each individual has a separate responsibility to assess his/her financial situation and to assess whether he/she has a financial capacity to borrow. In this context, increased knowledge and training on economic conditions may be important. This is particularly true of young people, who usually have less experience in borrowing and what this entails. In this context, I mention that the Consumer Ombudsman has a project for 2011 that concerns the conclusion of contracts among young people over 18 years of age. As part of the government’s efforts to reduce poverty, the government has taken several initiatives to make it easier for people who end up in debt problems they cannot deal with. The government will, among other things, protect those persons from excessive charges for the enforcement of defaulted debts. With effect from January 2007, the Stortinget, on the initiative of the Government, decided to reduce the fee for outlays from 2.1 times the legal fee to 1.85 times the legal fee for outlays. These are significant reductions in the social charges imposed and increased under the right-hand-dominated Bondevik II government. Overall, this means a decrease in the fee revenue for the country of more than 230 million. kr. Furthermore, in 2010, the government has also provided for a significant reduction in the costs for which the debtor may be liable for the out-of-court recovery. For consumers, collection rates are reduced by between 20 and 50 pst, depending on the size of the claim. For example, for a claim of NOK 2500: the rate reduced from $1,220 to NOK 610. The Government has also decided that it will take 14 days longer before the collection agency can use the maximum rate for the claim. This gives the debtor some better time to settle without increasing the costs of recovery. Creditors are not free to market credit agreements. Firstly, the Financial Contracts Act requires creditors to provide certain information in any form of credit marketing. It shall include, inter alia: information on the effective interest rate, the credit cost, the total amount of credit and the duration of the credit agreement, together with a true and fair view of the essential aspects of the credit agreement. The comprehensive information requirements include, inter alia: in order to improve the ability of the consumer to compare and assess different credit offers. Furthermore, the general rules of the Marketing Act set limits on the marketing of credit agreements. The Consumer Ombudsman shall supervise the conformity of marketing with the legislation. In order to enable the consumer to make a well-considered decision, he should receive all relevant information concerning the credit agreement before the conclusion of the contract. Therefore, the requirements imposed on the creditor’s obligation to provide the customer with information prior to the conclusion of an agreement have been strengthened. Information shall be provided to the consumer, inter alia: on the total amount of credit, the maturity of the credit agreement, the nominal and effective interest rate and other costs incurred in the credit relationship. The obligation to provide information is closely related to the obligation of explanation and to the obligation to advise against it. After the introduction of rules on disclosure, the creditor has an obligation to explain the content of the contract to the consumer. The explanation must be given in such a way as to enable the consumer to assess whether the proposed contract is appropriate to his needs and economic situation. In the extension of the obligation to explain, there is no obligation to advise the creditor that he has an obligation to inform the consumer that the consumer should refrain from taking up the credit if his or her financial capacity so requires. We have had this obligation for a while, but in 2009 the obligation to withdraw was extended so that it now also applies in the case of credit purchases. Furthermore, in 2010 some changes were made to the provisions on deterrence with a view to making the obligation more effective. Following the amendments, the renunciation shall be given both in writing and, as far as possible, orally. In addition, the consumer shall confirm, by signature, that the creditor has dissuaded him or her from taking up the credit, where a credit agreement is concluded in spite of the advice given to him or her. The purpose of requiring the consumer's signature is to make clear to the consumer that in such a case, the credit absorption is carried out at its own risk. With regard to the practical functioning of the non-advisory obligation of Section 47 of the Financial Contracts Act, the Financial Supervisory Authority has carried out an informal investigation among a selection of loan institutions. The investigation indicated that there is little dissuadement from borrowing, but that in cases where there is doubt as to whether the consumer is able to bear the obligations, a refusal will be made. In 2010, we also received a law on the creditor's obligation to perform a consumer credit assessment before the conclusion of a credit agreement. The assessment shall be made on the basis of information provided by the consumer or from relevant databases. This ensures that the creditor is provided with an adequate basis for assessing whether the consumer is able to fulfil his obligations under the credit agreement. The credit assessment obligation thus has a close link with the non-advisory obligation. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, at the request of the Stortinget, has been asked to investigate the issue of the establishment of a central debt register. Recording debt could be a useful tool in the implementation of the rating obligation. The investigation has been under consultation and is now being followed up by the Ministry. In 2010, a provision on the right of withdrawal was introduced in the Financial Agreements Act. Within a period of 14 days, the consumer may exercise the right of withdrawal and withdraw from the contract without giving any justification. The creditor may initially not charge any expenses other than the amount of the credit with interest. In the case of credit purchases, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government, has chosen to retain the requirement for cash input. In cases where the cash price of the goods exceeds 20 pst. of the basic amount of popular fear, such as: often will be the case in the case of car purchases, 35 pst. the cash price of the goods is paid in cash. Such a requirement is intended to protect the consumer against unconsidered purchases and also to some extent to protect against pressure from an on-going seller offering to grant credit to finance the purchase. If creditors do not comply with the obligations imposed by law, there are several sanctions available under both the provisions of the Financial Contracts Act and the general contractual rules on nullity and auditing, including the Contracts Act, Section 36. This may include, inter alia: to relax the consumer's obligations under the contract. Furthermore, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Consumer Ombudsman have the power to impose remedies and to impose periodic penalty payments in the event of a breach of the rules of the Financial Contracts Act on credit agreements. Clean consumer loans, which are largely granted without security, are offered by both banks and financial corporations. For several years, financial supervision has been monitoring the volume of consumption loans in a range of banks and financial corporations. The annual growth rate was 2 pst. at the end of the second quarter of 2010, and only 0,3 pst. in the second quarter isolated. After a period of significant growth in consumer loans, growth has stopped and it may indicate that financial institutions and consumers have become more cautious. Overall, I believe that the legislation to protect the consumer in this area has been well and significantly developed over the last few years. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that financial institutions deal with legislation and that it is followed in practice. At the same time, the problems of repayment of credit seem to be increasing, particularly among younger borrowers. This takes the government seriously and therefore considers the debate that has taken place today to be very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e180	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good account, which, in my view, provides good and reassuring answers to many of the issues that I raised in my interpellation. It is always a difficult balance how far you can go in defining who is responsible when things go wrong — and also in the issues we address in this interview — especially because it concerns so many young people who are at the beginning of their adult life. It is therefore understandable to sympathise with those who have been in a difficult situation because of poor economic priorities. This should and should be the case – simply because it is important to give feedback that we care about those who are struggling, and that the public can help get them out of the trailer, which is a heavy debt burden. We all know that the path to poverty is very short in such situations. I think the Council of State gave a good account of what has been done and what can be done – among other things. the measures taken by the government to strengthen the law in this area, measures which can help to prevent poverty in those with a high debt burden. But despite the sympathy with the people involved, I believe it is important to be clear that the individual also has an independent responsibility for his economic actions. It can't be clarified many times enough. Without such an understanding, the path out of a debt situation will be very long and winding. Unfortunately, it turns out that such an understanding is far inside. Too many people get loans that the parties involved should know would worsen their situation. Often it happens because you feel compelled to buy away from inconveniences by replacing old credit card debts with new credit card debts. Despite the fact that credit institutions are legally imposed both on disclosure and on a non-advisory basis, we learn that some credit institutions do not always follow the law’s intention to do so. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State whether it might be appropriate to introduce a rule that banks and credit institutions themselves have to take the bill if they have lent money to people who obviously do not have the finances to serve their credits. Furthermore, I would like to ask the State Council to say something more about whether there are sanctions in the law when we register breaches of the creditor's obligations. Finally, I would like to raise once again the concern of the growing debt in which an excessive proportion of the population is located. It is particularly worrying that the proportion is increasing among the young population. Starting your adult life with a huge debt burden is very challenging, and we must all, on each of our arenas, seek to prevent that from happening. In this respect, I would like to conclude with another question to the Council of State: Does the government intend to take other measures to prevent a further increase in the debt of the population, and especially of young adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e201	This is an important interpellation, and the interpellant poses important follow-up questions, which I'll try to give some answers to. I believe that we already have a good code that goes a long way in protecting consumers from taking up more credit than they would be able to serve – especially through the bank's dismissal obligation, which I had in my post. The banks also have an obligation here to advise consumers not to take up credit which may be too burdensome for the consumer's economy. If the banks do not comply with this non-advisory obligation, there is no doubt that this could lead to a relaxation of the consumer’s obligations under the credit agreement. Then I would also like to remind you of the obligation that the creditor actually has to inform not only verbally, but in writing about the dissuadement and the obligation of the borrower to sign if he still wants to take up the loan. The second question concerned whether it might be appropriate to introduce other sanctions into the law in the event of a breach of the creditor’s obligations. We have enough, as I consider it, today satisfactory sanctions options – some statutory provisions of the Financial Contracts Act and otherwise in the general contract law rules and not least the contract law § 36. In the context of the implementation of the Consumer Credit Directive, this issue was addressed in depth, and it was then found that there was no need to introduce further sanctions in the Financial Contracts Act. The introduction of additional sanctioning rules could create ambiguities in relation to other legislation where no specific rules are in place. This could also lead to further confusion. But this area, I think it's important to pay attention. I believe that the focus on training, on knowledge – not least among young people – about what opportunities and not least temptations, new sales channels, new advertising campaigns and tempting offers entail, are important, and that it is important for us all to ensure that there is the best framework possible, but nevertheless taking into account that it must be the responsibility of each individual to take responsibility for his own economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e216	In 2009, 5.2 million new debt collection cases were established in Norway. One quarter of these cases concern young people under the age of 25. The numbers tell us about a frightening development. I would therefore also like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a very important debate, and also thank the Council of State for many good answers. It is worrying when more people are incurring debts that they cannot handle. In particular, young people, because they are more vulnerable in the financial market, have lower incomes and often more precarious jobs. But then I also want to stress that there is a difficult debate with important balances, because it is necessary to say that everyone is responsible for their own economy. That responsibility must be at the heart of it. We all have a responsibility for not spending more money than we have. Everyone also has a responsibility to make the right choices, but personal responsibility must be combined with policies that strengthen consumer rights and protect individuals from being exploited, often in a vulnerable situation. Although many of the players in the industry take responsibility and have established good practices, we do not know that parts of the industry are speculative in their pursuit of profit, aggressive marketing and offering loans without security or security, half-hour loans per SMS and completed applications. We've all experienced – at least I've experienced it several times – going down Karl Johan, where people run after you with credit cards, and they almost don't take no for a no. All of this in order to tempt someone to take up a loan that might be difficult to pay down, so that the interest rate rate starts and companies make a lot of money. I therefore look forward, like the interpellant, to the Consumer Council's review of marketing. There's a need for that. I can understand that the temptation can be great, especially for people who don't always understand the scope of what they're doing. It has therefore been important for the Working Party and the Red-Greens to strengthen consumer protection and rights. We have strengthened the deterrence obligation, introduced disclosure obligations, we have legalised credit rating and 14 days' right of withdrawal, and there is an obligation to, among others. to indicate the effective interest rate in all marketing of loan offers. Where the Bondevik II government introduced and increased the USI charge for outlays, the red-green government reduced the fee by 230 million. kr. It is one of several important measures to combat poverty. Many good laws have been introduced by the red-green government in the last year, but it doesn't help to be right if you don't get it right. This is why, among other things, the legal assistance message – which is now to be rolled out, on free legal assistance for more – is an important contribution to the rights of more people and the solution of the problems at an earlier stage. I also want to commend all the volunteers involved in debt advice in Juss-Buss, the Gate Jurist, the JURK and other organisations in this debate. As in all areas, prevention is the best and most effective measure. Here we really have a way to go. At the end of last year, today's businesses presented a survey that showed that only half of young people between the ages of 18 and 20 actually know what interest is. Then it goes without saying that consumer loans and credit can be a short-bought happiness. It underlines the importance of the obligation to explain and to advise against it, but also underlines the importance of, inter alia: the targeted campaigns of the Consumer Council. It underlines the importance of relevant mathematics education and the economics of higher education, but it is also important that young people get a good dose of reason from home. The programme 'Luxus case' says something about the importance of solving the problems before they become so large that they are unmanageable. Under the Social Services Act, municipalities have an obligation to provide economic advice and guidance and help to those who are struggling. In 2009, the Consumer Council carried out a survey that had a discouraging effect. Only 12 Norwegian municipalities offer good help in the sense that they have good information on their websites, respond quickly and offer counselling within two weeks. Half of the municipalities did not respond to the enquiry or give incomplete answers. That's not good enough. The local authorities cannot solve this problem alone, but with the increase in social assistance payments, it may also be a hint to local government politicians that investing in debt advice in the long term can save the municipality's expenses, and many people can also be saved for pressures, worries and problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e233	Debt crisis is a very big problem for anyone who comes up with it, and often with a life that is almost ruined as a result. It's loss for the creditor. The only people who might earn something from this are debt collection agencies that can be left with a win. The government has done a lot in this area, and I'm very happy about that. We have a very great responsibility to protect consumers from the credit and consumer pressure that we are now exposed to. There are a lot of people who have bought goods from the Internet through both raising unsecured debts and acting on the Internet, where it is also impossible to get who you bought from. If you have something to complain about, or you can't pay the bill, that means that people are in a completely different situation now than they did before. The arrangements we're going to make should be so that as much as possible can be settled separately. That's the goal of what we're working on -- not to relieve anyone of responsibility for their own actions, but to put both the creditor and the debtor in the responsible position, and when you get into that situation, have arrangements that allow the most of them to get out of it and settle for themselves. I am pleased with what has been said here before about assessing the marketing, because I think we should have had a ban on the marketing of unsecured debt. I know that there are problems with that in relation to EU law, but I am at least happy that we are going to go new rounds to see how we can ensure that this pushing and marketing of unsecured debt can be mitigated. The second is to go through how the creditor can have an increased liability for unsecured debt. I think that's very important, because a creditor can't give credit to someone who obviously can't accept it. That is why the obligation to discourage we have introduced is important. That's the whole reason why the government is now assessing a debt register, which I'm very happy to do, because there's an opportunity to handle this in a better way than we do today. There are also many other measures we can think about in the future, such as: to explicitly consider a ban on the resale of unsecured credit – today there are many creditors who avoid it cheaply, they sell it further – and it is a principle to which a broad majority subscribe. I'm probably more concerned about it, but in the case of unsecured debt, I think this needs to be reconsidered. The claim for a self-inkasso, where the fees are even lower than they are when you get this sent into the other system, is there, and that will mean that whoever gives such a credit will know that you have to collect the debts of the sea, and through it can be more restrained. So I need to say a little bit about the public sector as a creditor, because I've been working on these things for a lot of years. In very many cases, it is easier to bring private creditors on contracts that enable them to pay off their debts than in some cases in the public sector. It could be that, for example, are self-payments to healthcare and medicines that can burden themselves with a heavy debt burden that people do not cope with. It could be people who are already in an extremely difficult situation. There may also be completely different types of debt that people have for the public sector. But I think there's a great need to go through how the public sector deals with these issues, not to let people get away with paying for themselves, but to get payment plans that make them actually able to pay. Now, in these electricity billing times, it's the way that the power companies are also encouraged to enter into contracts where you split the bill over time, so that it actually makes it possible for people to settle separately. I think it's incredibly important that you have the most possible of these arrangements, because I think there's very good learning in it, and it's a lot of sense that it's like this. Then you can't ask people to pay with money they don't actually have. That's when people panic and again take on short-term debt, which makes things go completely wrong. I am very pleased that the government is now assessing new measures, and I believe that there is a need to continue working on new measures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e248	First, I want to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. I am pleased with the debate that has taken place, with good intentions and good sense of action that can be taken. Since the summer, the number of Norwegians with payment notes has increased by 26 000. There were 17,000 more than just one year ago. In total, over 200,000 Nordics have nearly 30 million. kr in unpaid claims. Five out of six of those who don't make up for themselves are men, and the average age is 41. This means that it is a challenge not only for young people, but for young people in particular, many of whom have been involved, because almost 19,000 young people under the age of 25 have now received a payment note. Often it may be that less money is involved, but so many young people start their lives with a note of payment is serious. There are 3,000 more young people under the age of 25 who are registered with a note than it was last year. This shows, of course, that the situation has worsened, as many have experienced. For the youngest, almost a thousand 19-year-olds have received comments. That's twice as many as just six months ago. It shows that it is an important theme, and I am therefore pleased that several people have been involved in the theme for a long time. For the Christian People's Party, we have taken several different initiatives here in Stortingen to prevent more people from falling into debt crisis, but also to come up with measures to help those who have become debt slaves. It's important to have a low-threshold, simple tool, because unfortunately, you can see that a lot of people spend too much time with the small amounts to start with. One sees that there are bills that start to accumulate, and then one doesn't really know what to do. Being able to get in early and prevent the development of a problem is one of the most important things you can do. For the Christian People's Party, it is also obvious that it is important to be able to break the vicious circle at the beginning, that one can see that those who have begun to have payment problems can get help and not get back into the vicious circle. Therefore, perhaps targeting young people, to whom the interpellant was in, is extra important, because one knows that when a port in such a circle, it may be difficult to get out of it. One may not know how serious it is to get payment notes. It's only when one tries to go to the bank and have a loan for a car or a house, that one sees that it's not as easy to get the loan as one would have. That's why I want to address a special issue with the Council of State, because the Christian People's Party has taken the initiative of a debt register, which the Stortinget actually adopted in 2007, a decision calling for a debt register to be implemented. The decision aims at a final assessment in 2008. As far as I can see, it's not leading. On the contrary, I have seen previous formulations from the department that say they will come back to it later. The last thing I've found is that it's coming in the spring of 2010. I can't see it either, but I take a little repetition that I have not been able to find it. But anyway, I want to ask the government to look at a debt register, because it's about getting a complete overview of what a loan has. If so, for example. loans with mortgages in the car, houses, etc. if stated, but in the case of those who have loans without mortgages, they must differ from the financial credit institutions depend on being able to rely on borrowers to provide the actual information. One knows that it's not always done. It is a personal responsibility to prevent one from getting such challenges that I am talking about today. But it is also a responsibility for us as politicians to be able to facilitate that the financial institutions – many of them actually want to do a job to prevent people from becoming debt slaves – can also have the overall overview, and thus might be easier to say no. So the challenge of just this is given. At the same time, I just want to thank Karin Andersen for taking up the problem with the public as a creditor. It is a serious concern that I share, which I am pleased that the government party is occupied with, and which I hope the Council of State will look at. I also hope that she will look at a web portal, that one can be more willing to use debt advice from voluntary organisations, which do a very important job. And then I am glad that several people have indicated that one should look at the marketing that the credit card companies operate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e265	I want to commend the representative Simensen for putting a very important issue on the agenda. It is serious when more and more young people and others with vulnerable economies end up with debt collection requirements and receive payment remarks. The consequences can be long-term and very profound for the individual. According to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Nordics lent almost 45 billion in total. kr for consumption, among others credit cards in 2009. It's been a five-fold since 1997. However, far from all this debt, it is problematic. For those using credit with wit — within the carrying capacity of their own economy — it is good that the credit cards, the credit purchases and the consumption loans are available. They are useful tools for payment in everyday life and can be good to have when you really need extra money quickly, and you have to finance something that is absolutely indispensable, for example. when the washing machine goes. Then credit is ok – if you know you can pay back. In other cases, the use of credit cards may also be a good idea. In some cases, improved consumer protection is actually the best argument for using this type of card. In particular, in the case of online commerce, it is advisable to pay with credit cards. The same applies to the purchase of holiday or air travel. It's not this debt that's the problem. It is only when the type of credit card and the type of loan are given to people who cannot repay the borrowed amounts that problems arise. For several years, financial supervision has been monitoring the volume of consumption loans in a range of banks and financial corporations. In recent years, there has been a strong growth. For 2010, the annual growth rate was 2 pst. at the end of the second quarter of 2010, but only 0,3 pst. if we see the second quarter isolated. In other words, after a period of significant growth in consumer loans in recent years, there is evidence that growth may have flattened out. This may indicate that both the borrowers and the borrowers have become more cautious. Let's hope so! Consumption loans represent a small proportion of the total debt in Norwegian households, about 2 pst. So mortgages are more a problem for those who assume such liabilities than for the social economy as such. But for those who end up in a credit-funded economic disaster, it is in any case serious. That is why a number of measures have also been taken to prevent people from incurring unmanageable amounts of debt, as explained by the Council of State. Firstly, the person granting credit today is required to actively advise the customer not to borrow or borrow when it is clear that the person does not have the financial capacity to carry a loan. The warning shall also be given orally, and the customer must sign that no advice has been given. It's important that this rule is followed up, because it's actually supposed to be targeting those who can't handle credit loans. Many young people are in this group. There are also strict rules on the marketing of credit agreements today. In addition, the Financial Supervisory Authority has established guidelines on sound lending practices for residential loans. The main requirements are in a thorough process, in particular for the assessment of the ability to pay, and the loan shall normally not exceed 90 pst. the value of the dwelling. Hopefully, these interventions will improve the debt situation and economic vulnerability — especially for young people. Still, we have challenges. According to the FSA, debt collection companies received over 2.8 million new cases during the first half of 2010. There is an increase of almost 67,000 cases, or 2.4 pst., compared to the first half of 2009. A significant number of new debt collection cases have not previously been reported by collecting societies as in the first half of 2010. Why does this happen? Maybe it's that way that there's an increased acceptance to 'live the good life' on credit? Maybe it's the aggressive marketing of financial corporations? Maybe the payment morality has actually changed? Some claim that — in particular — it has changed among young people. Around 14 000 people aged 20 to 24 are registered with payment notes. The combined requirements amount to about half a billion dollars. This means that both training young people themselves and the behaviour of financial companies must be more rigorous. There should probably be more financial management in school education, but here too we as parents have a responsibility. More people simply need to be better equipped to teach their children their basic private economy. And then we have to look at how we can help people out of this mess. Local authorities' responsibility for debt advice needs to be up and down, and we can assess new exciting measures such as: online debt advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e296	First of all, like others in the Chamber, I would like to thank the interpellant for an extremely important interpellant and a good debate so far. It is important both for the individuals involved – it is difficult to start life with a heavy debt burden, and for many people it ends with an accident – and it is important for society. We see that we are partly poorly prepared for our meeting with modern society, and we see that it can potentially create great class divisions in a modern society if we do not have the ability to maneuver in the waters in which we operate. For my grandparents, it was almost unthinkable to take up debt when you were going to buy something – these were children in the 1930s, young people during the war, and in the establishment phase during the reconstruction of the country. It was an attitude of the generation that was about making money before trading the goods you wanted. Often it could take many years to dream of improving standards of living and living before you could realize it. While for many of my peers, you're used to almost not reaching for anything, until it's in the living room. I heard that before the Christmas we just went through, there were a lot of kids who couldn't get on things they wanted in Christmas, because they're used to getting almost everything in their hands. It is a development in society that is formidable in relation to our attitudes, in relation to serving our own economy and serving debt. I think that the possibilities to do something about this in particular are about three tracks that everyone has really been up to. The first is what we can do on the part of society with laws, rules and obligations. As we heard from both the interpellant and the Council of State, it's done a lot. Maybe we've done so much that we're getting close to the limit of how far politics can go before we start to take away the individual responsibility for our own economy. But I think it's possible to do more in terms of the obligations of those companies that offer short-term happiness and easy access to money, especially in terms of marketing. A lot has been done in terms of the obligation to explain and to advise against it, but there is a reason why we have to deal with the various providers in public places. It's a very lucrative industry we're talking about, and it has to be regulated. The second is that we have to do more in terms of education about rights and the dangers that are lurking, and there I think maybe the school can be a arena where you can prepare the young more fully for the everyday life they will meet when they're going to take responsibility for their own economy entirely alone. But no matter what we do on the part of the state and society, there will always be unprofessional players in the industry, and there will always be people who can fall for the temptation. That is why I want it to focus more on the personal responsibility we actually have, and especially on the responsibility of parents. When many children today feel that they are almost pushed into the consumer hunt, partly by adults around them, what does their relationship with the economy do? What does it do with their relationship to actually affording to buy what they want? What does it do to us as a society that we still have a consumption growth and a desire for a consumption growth, and a consumer chase? I believe that one of the most important tasks adults and parents have is to protect children. Just as we protect our children from physical dangers in traffic, in the cityscape and elsewhere, it must become equally important in today's society and in the future to prepare children and young people for what can meet them in a modern world. So we can do a lot on the part of society to help people who have fallen asleep, but we really don't solve anything until we get a higher awareness among parents, among adults, in school and among the individual youths themselves. Only then can we counteract the trend we unfortunately see. I feel that this debate has been an important contribution to doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e315	I would first like to start by thanking everyone who has taken part in the debate. I think we've got a very good focus and a lot of good insights into the problem that lies in my interpellation. I want to start by commenting on some of the posts that have been. I can start with the last two – in terms of responsibility around the kitchen table: simply to discuss with our young people the problems young people face in the real world. We have all been through a life phase where we stood in the hands of the bank manager and asked thinly for loans, until today aggressive sellers meet both at Karl Johan, at the electrical store, at the furniture store or where they may be, who offer cards – not necessarily just one card, but you may be left with 10–15 cards in your pocket if you really accept all the offers. So this with attitudes, discussions and understanding of meeting an aggressive and partly material world is important to address. I also think that among the forums for that type of debate is perhaps around the kitchen table the most important place. Then more people have been concerned about how the public acts in connection with being a creditor. I think that's a good point and it's an important topic to discuss. We don't necessarily just have to look at what's happening around us, but I also think it's important to look at how we act ourselves when we're in such a situation. I would like to attend that debate. The representative Andersen also makes an important point, and this concerns the new business area that has flourished after the debt situation that has developed, namely the resale of debt claims. It doesn't just go into one term, but it also goes into several terms, and the further in the terms you get, I'll also think that the collection methods will become more aggressive and in that way also put the one that's in a debt situation, in a much, much more difficult situation than you were in. I also think it is important to point out that part of the new business area, so here there are enough people who should go on their own. I would like to conclude by thanking you again for the debate I don't think this is the last debate on this topic, but I hope at least that this is a start to a discussion that can make life easier for many who are in a very difficult situation. And, as I've said, we all have a responsibility, but perhaps the most important responsibility is around the kitchen table, to start there, because there I think the lesson needs the most in our minds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e331	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue, and the breadth of the debate shows how challenging it can be for everyone, not just young people, to navigate in a world based on electronic payment, easy access to credit and many tempting offers. I also want to repeat what I said about the government looking at the issue of setting up a debt register. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has examined the question, and this investigation has now been at the hearing, and the case will be followed up by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Let me also end by summarizing that I think we have a good framework in the area of credit. As the review has shown, first of all, we have a number of provisions to protect the consumer from borrowing that he/she will find difficult to operate. In addition, the government, as I also mentioned, has reduced the costs for which the consumer can and will be responsible for legal collection and collection, which in turn will make the situation easier for people who have had debt problems. And the government has also, and there are several people who have pointed out that is important here today, have been concerned that the legislation in the field of credit is being complied with in practice. In particular, the supervision of credit institutions is an important keyword. Many have illustrated the importance of providing information and disseminating knowledge on economic issues in a good way. I have to admit that I was also very concerned when I saw the headline in the media related to what young people really know about interest. It says something about the knowledge challenge we have in this area. Here I think we all see that it is important to follow this area carefully and also to assess the need for new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e340	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e356	The use of tenders and, in particular, the consequences of the use of tenders have been an important policy theme in this autumn. This is due in many ways to the results of part of the tendering procedures that have been carried out. In that debate, sometimes the impression is that the political debate is about being in favour of or opposed to tenders. I believe that it is not a debate that brings us forward. My clear impression after six years of red-green government is that there is a relatively broad connection in this room to make the use of tenders necessary – not only necessary but also mandatory – in some areas where the public is to purchase services from private individuals. However, tenders are much more than compliance with the procurement rules and public procurement laws. Compliance with the legislation is, of course, important and a matter of course. Several of the issues that have been raised in the autumn are likely to end up in the legal system, where one will be able to assess this. But it's not the theme of this interpellation. Compliance with the procurement rules and public procurement law is necessary but not sufficient to have a good public procurement policy, in order to implement a tender, is in fact also a political issue. I believe that part of the tenders made by regional health establishments during the harvest are examples of a bid being made in the blind without considering what a wish is, whether as a short-term or long-term consequence of the tenders being launched. There are many reasons why public policy needs to be extra careful in terms of both the short-term and long-term consequences of its procurement policy. Not least in the field of health, it is important that the public is actually in a monopolistic position as a customer, and therefore public procurement policy is crucial for the further development of this area. There are no alternative customers other than the public in this market. Health is a policy at whatever level it is. This means that the results of a bidding round are about a lot more – whether you can earn or save a few dollars in short-term profits. It's about diversity in services, it's about freedom of choice, it's about quality, and it's about proximity to services. All of this is a matter for which you have to pay attention when submitting a tender. I want to use, for example, two bids made in the autumn to illustrate the point of this interpellation. Health South-East offers in the case of X-rays, and Health West offers in the case of treatment for drug addicts in the Health Stavanger area. I could have also used many other examples that illustrate the exact same thing. I could have used as an example the purchase of rehabilitation services. I could have used as an example bid for psychiatry that hit Oslo Hospital, and I could have also used as an example other offers around the country, which had the same content and the same consequences. However, in order to go back to what must be part of a well-thought-out public strategy when making good tenders that deliver the results that a person wants in relation to the population, it is important on the market that a buyer ensures that it is also a well-functioning market in the future. So to the two examples: Health West conducted in the Health Stavanger area a drug treatment-related tender, which resulted in the Rogaland A centre becoming almost exclusively a supplier of that type of treatment, at the expense of, among others, Blue Cross's treatment services elsewhere in the same area. This means that the next time Health West is to launch drug-related tenders in that area, there will in reality be only one private non-profit player, and it is the Rogaland A centre. Well to mark this was a tender, but many would like to have a discussion about ideal or commercial operators. I would like to make it clear that this offer was a limited offer which only covered non-profit actors, but the way in which the tender was carried out, all the other non-profit actors disperse with the result that the next time Health West is to make a tender here, I am convinced that Health West will argue that since there is only one private non-profit player, Health West must build up a public offer for this patient group, because they do not want one private non-profit player to dominate this area. And why do I say that? Well, because that's exactly what you now experience in the Health West in the Health Bergen area, where the Bergen clinics are in the situation that the Rogaland A-centre will be in the next time tenders are to be made in the Health West. So the more you wonder if this is a conscious strategy, or an unconscious strategy, but the consequences for the patients are still equally serious. In the case of X-rays, Health South-East submitted as a condition in the tender that one of the operators could receive 80 pst. of the market. What does that mean? Well, that means half of Health Norway, which Health South-East represents, ends up giving one actor not 80 pst, but in this case 78 pst. by the market, and thus exclaims another major actor who previously had 60 pst., to earn a few dollars in a short period of time. The consequence is that the next time Health South-East is to launch an X-ray for tenders, there is therefore no competition between equivalent players, and with the result that the small crowns that you have earned these four years of this tender will be a very rapid loss in the next round, both because one might then be in a situation where a nearly private monopoly exists, and also because any private operator entering such a risky market will have to price that risk in the tender. Something else would be totally unprofessional. One would not bring serious actors on anything like this. In relation to diversity and freedom of choice, one sees that the offer made in Health South-East in relation to x-rays not only destroys the market but also destroys the diversity and supply of patients. There will be fewer places where it will be possible to get the offer, patients will have to travel longer, and patients will have less choice. There will be a poorer diversity – poorer freedom of choice for patients. Within the ru area, this may be even more serious, precisely because the Rogaland A centre treats its ruspacers in one way – so they have one approach to patients – while the Blue Cross has another. Now the patients in Health Stavanger no longer have that option. Now the diversity is gone. This means that also many patients who could have been drug-free because they found a treatment that suits them, now probably won't be drug-free, because they can't choose a treatment that will work for them. As regards x-ray quality, this may be the most special offer made in Health South-East. In the letter to the Minister of Health, where Health South-East will explain the tender that has been carried out, Health South-East responds to the emphasis on quality. It was actually added 70 pst. weight on quality and 30 pst. weight on price. But then you get to the point: Health south-east defined in the offer the different offers to have equal quality. So that's why it counted 70 pst. That's really zero, and that's what counted 30 pst. This is a pointless way to do it, and that Health South-East is daring to argue that way to the Minister of Health, is quite surprising, namely, not to tell you what was actually the reason that one ended up with that supplier as one did. So quality would count zero. The same applies to the offer related to drug treatment in the Health West, where, for example: not thought of proximity as an important quality. Looking now at what is important, namely to have predictability for the partners, it is necessary for public authorities to act in such a way that, in the future, there are, in fact, partners who want to be an important healthcare provider, on which the public is completely dependent – and that there are individuals who want to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e384	It was a great political interest around the public acquisitions that were made just before Christmas. Both Health North, Health West and Health South-East carried out acquisitions. I am pleased that the representative Höie sees that tenders are not always a perfect way to provide health care for people in Norway. When we acquire services from private individuals, it is important that we do this in a tidy way, so that the actors have confidence in the processes, and not least – the most important thing – that patients receive good services. The acquisitions have now been largely carried out, the review process has been completed, and some measures have been implemented to remedy unintended effects. I'm glad that we got a solution for Oslo Hospital that looks after patients in a good way. This is an institution that many people have been concerned about, and that offers patients that we are very committed to. The representative, Mr Höie, is concerned that unilateral emphasis on prices in the tendering round could lead to monopoly formation and that it could in the long run lead to poorer quality and rising prices. This is an important issue. Regional health establishments shall provide specialist health services to their inhabitants. It takes place through the activity of health enterprises and through the purchase of healthcare from private individuals. The aim is to ensure a good health offer for everyone. I am concerned that we should have a strong public health service where hospitals are mainly owned and operated by the public. I do not believe that more tenders and privatisation will solve the problems in the health sector, but it is clear that private enterprises and contract specialists are important and useful partners. It is also important that hospitals and health institutions owned and run by non-governmental organisations should be guaranteed good conditions through public contracts. In some areas, the use of private health institutions is relatively high. This is particularly the case for training and rehabilitation and in the field of drugs. Private institutions provide more than 60 pst. of the total daily capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. This is done through agreements with the regional health establishments. The government has been concerned with the long-termity and predictability of the non-profit institutions. This objective is clearly also supported by the representative of Höie. However, we all agree that the objective does not have to be drawn to the point where it becomes difficult to adapt to changing needs or the necessary changes in services. Such a development will affect patients. The reasons behind the public procurement legislation are to maintain the quality of the service and to ensure that we make good purchases for the benefit of patients. Regional health establishments must comply with the public acquisition rules when purchasing health services. They may use the derogations applicable to NPISHs, as Health West has done, for example: in the case of acquisitions in the field of drugs, but in any case the essential legal requirements for competition and non-discrimination apply. The award of contracts is usually based on pre-defined criteria. These criteria are made known to all stakeholders and form the basis for the private offerings. This contributes to predictability and non-discrimination. It's common for quality to be weighted by 50 pst, the price by 30 pst. and availability at 20 pst. Quality is usually the most important criterion for selecting a service provider. The Code of Public Acquisition shall contribute to ensuring efficient resource use and equal treatment of all suppliers. It is therefore important to take account of the reasons behind the legislation. The respective institutions may not govern the agreements. When contracts with individual institutions are not continued, the institution is likely not to provide the services it needs. Other reasons are that the services are not of sufficient quality or that the price is too high compared to other private suppliers. The latter may in some cases be due to the fact that individual actors are too safe in their position and thus allow themselves to praise the services well. The acquisitions made have undoubtedly triggered efficiency gains and, in some cases, a clear improvement in quality. In the Health West, the acquisition of the drug area has led to a significant increase in outpatient services and in day-care facilities. In addition, new outpatient services have been established and the capacity of the daily supply of drug addicts has increased. Both in the North and Health South-East there have been changes in the rehabilitation field, which have also affected the quality in a positive direction. In the field of mental health protection too, the conversion of the supply to patients has led to the conversion of the services of the suppliers. That's the way it has to be. Private institutions, like publicly owned enterprises, must adapt to a new reality as a result of changing needs. The acquisition of health in radiology by the South-East is planned to lead to 14 pst. several surveys in 2011, at approximately the same level as in 2010. That's maybe this acquisition Höie is especially concerned with this interpellation, that's from what came out. Health South-East claimed that no supplier would receive more than 80 pst. of the volume of radiology contract. The aim was to ensure competition. It is difficult to assess whether this was an adequate requirement as the market develops over time. But it's interesting to note that Aleris Health AS has come into being as a new actor in Health South-East in connection with this acquisition. They were awarded contracts for the purchase of outpatient radiology together with Unilab’s Norge AS and the X-ray centre AS. Curato, who lost the competition, has taken legal action against Health South-East because they disagree with the award of Health South-East. I take note of this. I cannot intervene in a legal dispute between a private provider and a regional health company. The Ministry has committed itself to ensuring that citizens, irrespective of the provider, are assured of the proximity to radiological offers with sufficient capacity. According to Health South-East, UNILAB’s Norway AS will consider continuing institutes on Lillestrøm and in Porsgrund. These are relationships that I still want to follow up on. I don't think the way to go is to preserve the existing services – neither public, non-profit or commercial. The specialist health service shall cover the needs of the population for services within the financial framework provided by the Storting. The dilemma is that the offer will never meet any demand for services. A professional assessment of the facilities of the services must be carried out, and this is the responsibility of the regional health establishments. Acquisitions must be governed according to the needs of patients and not of providers. But we have to learn from the experience that has been gained. I believe that the measures taken after acquisitions, not least in Health South-East, help to resolve many unintended effects, and – I would like to add – that it is reasonable that we now evaluate the procurement processes that have been carried out in order to prevent the unfortunate consequences of future acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e422	There was nothing in the Minister of Health's response to the idea that a fundamental approach has been taken to the procurement practices of health businesses in order to actually prevent what the Minister of Health calls 'unintentional effects', but which I would call the obvious results of carrying out poor bidding rounds that are not thought out in advance, and the consequence of the fact that the Minister of Health obviously does not direct health businesses towards a procurement policy that operates according to the political objectives that we have set. The Minister of Health, in effect, explained that, as a result of poor bidding rounds, health businesses are starting some fire-fighting measures to prevent the results of the tenders they have made. Some of the fire-fighting measures are obviously on the edge, or at least you can question their legality. It's very unfortunate in terms of how this is going to develop further. I don't think anyone in this room like that. do not believe that it is quite ok that most of the X-ray and laboratory activities in Norway are carried out in good, private X-ray and laboratory institutions. I don't think the public had managed to run those institutions just as well at the same price. At least no other person has proposed anything else in this area, as far as I have registered. Then it's very unfortunate when the public acts the way you do. In any case, the most important thing is the provision of patients. On 30 November, Sonja Irene Sjøli asked the Minister of Health about how the offer of X-rays in Health South-East would affect both availability and waiting time, because the Minister of Health has said in the State budget that it is her goal to reduce the waiting time in this area. The Health Minister replied to that on 10 December by referring to Health South-East, but there was no answer to whether an actual target of reducing the waiting time for X-rays for half of the country's population was reached. I note that the Minister of Health himself found the need to ask Health South-East exactly the same question a few days after she had answered the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, and the Minister of Health received an answer to the same question on December 23rd – at least it was an attempt to answer. I have read the letter of reply from Health South-East and find no evidence of whether Health South-East actually sees itself able to reduce the waiting time for the X-ray in 2011, as the Minister of Health writes in the State Budget. My question to the Minister of Health is simply: does the Minister of Health feel safe that the waiting time for the X-ray in Health South-East, for half of the country's population, is going to fall in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e435	I do not know if the representative Höie understood that I said we would have an evaluation of the purchase process that has been in Health South-East. With regard to the details in it, I find it very difficult to enter into this case, because there is a legal dispute and therefore there is a disagreement between the one who lost the tender and the one who has won. What has been looked at through the process and the complaint handling process is whether there have been unintended effects because the new supplier has offered elsewhere than the old supplier has had. But this is something we're looking through. When I say we should have an evaluation, it is because we also need to learn from tendering practices for future tendering. I think that's important. In the case of waiting time, it is a very important issue for patients in Norway. I am very concerned that we will succeed in bringing down the waiting times. That is why we have also made stricter demands on the number of surveys, because we know that there is a need, and that is why we need to do so. in Health South-East have a 14 pst. increase in the number of X-rays in years compared to last year. Then I'd like to comment on Health West, because here it's said that you don't have a diversity, that you haven't provided for it in your acquisitions in the field of drug treatment. Health West, as the interpellant said, only went out to non-profit institutions in its bidding round. They have awarded the Church's Social Service, the Bergen Clinics, which are a non-profit foundation, the Blue Cross West, the Church's City Mission, the Salvation Army, and the Valdresklinik Foundation, which is a non-profit foundation. If one of these actors had received all these institutional assignments, I have to say that there was no diversity. But here are many different providers, non-profit institutions and institutions doing a very good job, which have been awarded this offer. But the most important thing is that they can deliver what Health West asks for in terms of the arrangement of the offer – the offer that they believe is the professionally correct and the best for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e446	We often have debates in the United Kingdom about tendering practices in the health sector. That's good. It is important that the significant public funds used to purchase healthcare from private providers are used as best as possible for the benefit of patients. Today’s interpellant focus is on the use of tendering rules in such a way as to maintain the diversity of providers in a varied market of private health services. It is easy to agree that we need different actors in this field to enable the public health system to choose partners in line with health care needs. But I can't free myself to think that in these debates one gets a little bit preoccupied by the providers, i.e... the private health actors. I don't doubt that all the parties in this room are concerned with patients and users, but I notice that the opposition – and not least the interpellant party, which is a hot defender of free competition – is so insidious when someone loses in the same bidding competitions. I thought in my simplicity that there's this competition going on, that someone wins, while others have to bite the grass. In the debate on a proposal for a representative on these issues just before Christmas last year, the representative Höie deepened his view. He acknowledges that he is a member of more competition in the health sector, more private and commercial operators, and hence more tender, while accusing the parties to the government of accepting that health-care establishments are engaged in a tendering procedure with the «obligation to the eyes», as he said. In this debate, the debate in the course of the day, and he repeats it in today's debate, meant that the tender descriptions should be formulated in such a way as to ensure agreement with more, and less, actors, so as not to be monopolised. That is, of course, a good objective, and the government parties had clear formulations in the comments on the State budget to take advantage of the space available under the Public Acquisitions Act, for example. to conclude longer-term contracts and to conclude agreements with non-profit-making providers other than regular bidding rounds. The comments chosen by the opposition for some reason not to be included. But then we have to be clear that the desire for a large number of contract partners may conflict with the three main considerations that must be given priority when concluding agreements, namely quality, including good and proper competence, price – in order to help patients as much as possible – and availability. These considerations must always weigh heavily, for the benefit of patients. This may mean that from time to time there will be fewer private providers who will receive the award. Often, individual actors and some choices made by health businesses have been the subject of debate in Stortingen, as well as today. And it can be quite right if you see that the choices made in healthcare companies do not provide clear political guidance from Stortinget. But in these debates it has been almost made as if it were for those actors who do not get an agreement with health businesses, the hook at the door. I have an example of this not being necessary. Salangen HealthRehab in Troms did not renew his contract with Health Nord now in the harvest. We red-green big politicians from Troms, Health Nord, Salangen municipality's management and other municipalities in Mid-Throms then put our heads in the soft and asked: What if we are now using the rehabilitation competence in Salangen as an inter-municipal rehabilitation offer? Everyone said yes to that. And Salangen rehabilitation is now continuing with all its employees in cooperation with the municipalities around and with the support of Health Nord's means of interaction, which they actually have in their budget. I think that can be a very good solution for a lot of other rehabilitation environments, and that will be completely in line with the Cooperation Reform, which has been adopted in the Stortinget. So I would recommend the interpellant to whisper his party traps here in Oslo a few words in his ear when it comes to tendering practices. It is now widely known that, with regard to the outsourcing of hospitals in this city, only a small number of large players have been awarded the award. Voluntary, non-profit organisations are now getting fewer and fewer in terms of care for the elderly, and many have told us that they are unable to join the carousel. These players who have been awarded the award have one thing in common: they are subsidiaries of large, international groups that have an address for tax havens — perhaps with blindfolds or perhaps a practice with an open, blue eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e461	First, I want to thank the interpellant for keeping focus on this important issue. There is no doubt that there have been major changes in the health sector over the last decades, how good financial management has had a significant focus with a view to getting more healthcare out of each krona. We know that in Norway, the public sector is purchasing goods, services, construction works for about 330 billion. kr per year. We have the right to public acquisitions, public acquisition regulations, supply regulations, EU procurement laws and related directives, and we have the EU thresholds, to mention some of those that regulate public procurement. A dedicated public procurement database — Doffin — has also been established to allow contracting entities and contractors to come into contact with each other. And we have received a complaint subject for public acquisitions – KOFA – which acts as an advisory complaint body with sanction possibilities in relation to breaches of procurement law. The reason why this system is established is precisely belief in the market and market forces. It is underlined that public acquisitions should be based as far as possible on competition, because competition is considered an appropriate instrument to ensure efficient public use of resources and to contribute to increased value creation in society. The regulatory framework for public acquisitions shall ensure that the public funds are used as best as possible through cost-effective and socially sound procurement. It is also underlined the importance of the public sector contributing through its procurement to the development of a competitive business. On the Internet pages of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, we read the following: ‘Competition helps businesses to become more efficient and thus keep prices and costs down. When companies have to compete, innovation and consumer-oriented product development are stimulated. It makes Norwegian business more competitive. The Government will therefore pursue a policy to promote competition.’.» The health sector consists of a number of actors and providers of health and care services. It's public municipal, intermunicipal, county and state, and we have private NPISHs, private commercial and voluntary. The Progress Party believes that we are dependent on having a wide range of offers and different actors to meet the ambitions of getting as good a health care as possible out of the health crowns we use. We have been deeply concerned about the government's policy and rhetoric, which has helped to put private suppliers under a severe pressure, and which has led to several of them having to throw in their towel. We received alerts that private, ideal healthcare providers were at risk of being history in five to ten years if no important action was taken. Therefore, the Progress Party promoted the proposal to draw up a social contract as many EU countries have done. We have pointed to the Swedish model, which we believe could form the basis for a Norwegian variant. Together with the Right and Christian People's Party, we asked that the government set up a sample where authorities, user organisations and a wide range of ideal and private healthcare providers were represented. The main purpose of course was to ensure that ideal suppliers could still be life-making, but we also wanted to draw with private commercial ones, precisely because we wanted a unified understanding and in order to avoid distortions of competition. Unfortunately, the government parties would not listen to us. I noticed that the Minister of Renewal on Monday had a meeting with some of the ideal actors, and that is positive. I fear, however, that there will be too small a forum and a basis for ensuring diversity and greater predictability for suppliers. Tenders and competition are sound instruments to stimulate innovation, innovation, efficiency and quality development. Unfortunately, in many cases the public sector is not competent enough to order, and in many cases private non-profit and commercial suppliers have significant potential for improvement in the knowledge of public procurement legislation. But in any case, we need a market in order for competition to be possible. We must then have several different actors. We need a completely different awareness of service quality, so that price is not the most important and only criterion. Nor am I convinced that the public sector has taken into account all the factors such as overheads and alternative costs when they build up their own offers to compete for a well-functioning offer, for example. from an ideal supplier. We must not get to the point that ideology and rhetoric are becoming more important than the consideration of the sector for which it really exists, namely the individual user or patient. That's why it's important that we concentrate on diversity, it's important that we focus on quality, and it's important that we take care of freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e485	Public health procurement and tendering practices in the country are unsolicited. That's the background for this interpolation. Then I would like to say, a little contrary to the Council of State, that there is no fault in the principles of tenders, but it is several times to criticise the government's handling of the principle of tenders in everyday life. I think the reason why you have this insatiableness is that you're not really very interested in how to use the competitive moment between different actors -- what we achieve in society when a lot of people try to tackle the same problem from different starting points and angles, is that there's someone who's better than others, and then they get a reward for this by the influx of customers. This field has a tradition of state-run operations almost according to centralist governance principles. I also believe that the interpellation takes the side of this as an unfortunate allocation practice. But for me, this is an example of the fact that, through its regional health companies, the State does not have the power to establish a sound procurement practice. This is probably due to involuntaryness and lack of contractual competence, as the private non-profit organisations may say a lot about it, but this is probably also due to the system's unwillingness to do things a little differently. One is opposed to establishing a real situation where those who deliver the best quality and the lowest price are charged because one is not willing to look at the inefficient places and the expensive places that the public itself insists on. I would like to justify this with the following three points: Firstly, the state leaves its own companies out of price comparison, and I believe in and of course that quality work will be harmful to it. Secondly, the State does not clearly distinguish between its role as the owner of competing activities, i.e. those that may be exposed to unpleasant competition, and those who would like to have contracts. And thirdly, and it's perhaps the most serious thing in this phase, purchases are not used to produce alternative thinking, innovation or efficiency, but in this round, as we've seen in the autumn, it's been used as the regulator of an overall capacity, which the ministry – and therefore we'll assume also the Council of State – wants to bring down. This means that the ministry believes that too many offers are produced, and too much healthcare is provided around, and then they use the tendering process where the contracts with the private are open to renewal, not to enter into an agreement. It is then said that the agreement was not concluded due to a high price, a lack of quality – but it is rhetoric. What really happens is that you use the public procurement and competition rhetoric, while you actually refuse further business contacts with the providers. And what we're talking about is the closure of spaces. Oslo Hospital was out in various posts here. The government also considered that the problem had been solved, but it does not cover the fact that when you are through the tendering process in Oslo, the number of psychiatric beds in the Lovisenberg sector has been halved. I just want to ask if the Council of State is aware of this. Is she aware of the system she is operating? So that's the other question: if she's not familiar with it, will she do something about it from a political point of view? Because that's what we're talking about. It is not a bid, but it is therefore the use of tenders as a pretext for interrupting the business relationship with private individuals, who have invested in staff, effort, capital and what they have to have in order to be part of and build the welfare state together with the state, but who are actually used as a regulator in everyday life, and then the state withdraws the private when it finds it too good and has to save money. It has been the situation up to the turn of the year. For the way the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government manage Health-Norway, it is really the financial framework that ultimately determines to what extent one is at all interested in bringing in private.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e504	In the autumn, there has been a strong focus on public tenders and the outsourcing of health and social services. The background is that public acquisitions have been carried out in Health North, Health West and Health South-East just before Christmas. This meant that some institutions lost the tender and were not allowed to continue their contracts. It is basically part of the deal: if there is a tender, it is the best and cheapest one that has to win. The criticism has been made in the manner in which the tender has been made, but also in the area of health in general: whether it is appropriate and whether it goes beyond the patient offer. The bidding system is perceived by the operators as arbitrary and bureaucratic. A lack of objective assessment criteria is reported and the system contributes to fewer actors and less competition in the long term, which could lead to monopolisation in the next round and to the public takeover, as the inter-pellant has mentioned. From serious actors, we are told that tenders as they are being conducted today are countering innovation and the development of new health services adapted to new patient groups. It's mostly about being the best to adapt to standard criteria, not about developing offers to meet patients' needs. Although we have organised specialist health services in a business model where we have given regional corporate governance the responsibility for the execution of public procurement, the processes of the harvest have moved the Stortinget. In particular, there has been a focus on the framework conditions for non-profit actors operating in health, care and child protection services. In its position on representatives’ proposals from the Christian People’s Party on framework conditions for non-profit-making actors, the Political People’s Party, together with the government parties, stated that interaction between the public sector and non-profit-making organisations should be further developed in order to improve the provision of services to the population. The majority of the Committee, the government parties and the Christian People's Party, in this case, showed that the health, care and social sectors are poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures where short-term economic criteria are most often decisive. The comments made by these parties show that the built-in dynamics of the competitive regime focus on price rather than quality and short-term rather than long-term. Furthermore, it is assumed that the government will facilitate interaction between the public and voluntary sectors on the basis of the most long-term and predictable framework conditions, and that the procurement process must be set up in such a way as to ensure that users’ needs for stability and good services are properly met. The majority also believe that in the case of many health and care services, contracting authorities should place more emphasis on quality than on price when purchasing services, and that a person should take advantage of the possibilities of applying different procurement procedures in order to obtain better procurement. In the comments made by the Health and Welfare Committee on the State Budget, government parties have agreed that, in some cases, pure outsourcing of health services and social services may have negative consequences for the development of service provision over time. The majority are concerned that, within the principles on which the Law on Government Acquisitions is based, one uses instruments other than open, restricted tendering. Purchases in negotiations may be such an alternative, as is also apparent from the procurement regulation in Part II. Regional health enterprises must establish special-purpose rehabilitation agreements for periods of predictability and basis for the development of better quality services. I am pleased that a majority of the Stortinget – in committee comments, as described – have been clear on the challenges of health tenders. The majority have pointed out that instruments other than open procedures should be used, for example: purchase by negotiation. In addition, it is clarified that if tenders are made, political governance must be ensured. The case of Oslo Hospital has shown that the offer of healthcare services in psychiatry was in the process of compromising the health supply to heavy psychiatric patients. I am just as happy as the Minister of Health that a solution was found – not because of the tendering system, but despite the tendering system. However, there must be an alarm, that in the case of disease tenders are complex and often inappropriate. The right-hander says that there is no tender, but the use of a tender that is the problem. I believe that tenders can also be the problem, and that if we are to have and continue to tender in the field of health, we must agree that we must then ensure that the quality is different from what we have seen in the autumn round of tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e530	The President will inform you that the Rules of Procedure for Interpellation Debates provide that the word can be spoken only once, but that it is possible for many to take the word within an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e533	Thanks to interpellant Höie for putting health companies' purchasing practices on the Stortinges agenda. For the Christian People's Party, this is one of the most important things we're dealing with right now, and we've been working on these challenges for a long time. We share many of Höie's intentions in this area. We want diversity, quality, proximity to services and, above all, predictability for users and for operators operating the offer. However, it is not the well-functioning market that is the goal of the Christian People's Party, but above all the struggle to save the non-profit sector. We fight it because we believe that ideal actors have so much to supply. They have been pioneers and built up important offers of very high quality. Nevertheless, we see that there is no room for these actors in today's society as much as before. In recent years, non-profit actors have had to shut down the operation of child-rescue, drug and other care institutions or have to endure a desperate struggle in these days to survive. I have many examples: Blue Cross on Ashøy, Blue Cross Outpatient Sandnes, Duedalen Blue Cross Treatment Center, Sun Beach Child Protection Center short-term, Clover Garden in Ringebu, Silver-Scotch Mount Rehabilitation Centre, Dreiseskevå Church Urban Mission Rogaland, Styve Gard and Garnes Youth Centre. These are just a few. These are pushed out of the market. Not because they run poorly, but they are squandered between on the one hand the attitude that the public should take care of everything itself – it also affects all the private individuals, as the interpellant here referred to – and on the other hand economic rationality and tender and competition thinking, which are now spreading to all areas of society. Both of these positions are particularly threatening the ideal actors today and are about to kill the non-profit institutions. We have to reverse this development, and it's urgent. The situation of many of the ideal actors is precarious. I think the interpellant Höie has, in an exemplary way, made the situation visible also to commercial, if it becomes a greater monopoly, to say it like that, and a less diversity. The Christian People's Party agrees with the interpellant that we need a diversity of offerings, we need a greater focus on quality and, of course, more predictability and stability. Some of the last thing I did in this hall before Christmas was to encourage the government and government parties to go from word to action and clean up this situation. It has actually taken the government five years not to find solutions for the non-profit sector. Also during the last growing-up period, the government promised to come back and look at both legislation and other – how we could save the non-profit sector from what is now happening. It is not just the non-profit sector and the institutions that are affected, it is mainly patients. Several institutions will be closed if nothing is done immediately. In this respect, it is gratifying to note the majority comments made by the Business Committee in the past year — but it is urgent. Employees have been laid off, both in Oslo and in the West, and even in my own municipality – it is great institutions that have built up their care for the past decades. If it hadn't been patients who needed this, I shouldn't have said anything. Had there been poor quality in these institutions, we could not say anything either. But just to take one example, there are almost 4,000 addicts in line, and a bunch of them live in the mountain area. Yesterday we could read in the paper that in Bergen there is a new rusakut. Nice! You could be there for 48 hours. But what happens to almost all the patients who have been in there for two days? Yes, they are being printed out – for no offer. What are we going to do with a rusakut? I just have to ask, as I did before Christmas: will the representatives of the government parties, and the government, accept that so many institutions that have resigned employees already, will be dissolved? We lose many great, good, ideal institutions by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e555	I would also like to thank the interpellant Höie for putting public procurement practices on the Stortinget agenda. Höie points to important challenges that the Christian People's Party has spent a lot of time on, and will still spend a lot of time and energy on. Today, public purchases of welfare services are not working well. With today's system, very many of the services we need and want are being pushed out of society. Hojee is entitled to ensure the diversity and quality of welfare procurement – and not least the predictability and stability of the users of the services, the employees and the operators of the services. I have no doubt that we share this goal with Höie and Right too. I do not think the government parties want the development and the situation we have today either. However, I must say that I believe that the Right Medicine is wrong. And I think the government parties fail the patients and the ideal actors when they don't use the majority power to save all the offers that have been made, that one is laying down, or struggling to keep his head above the water. It is difficult to understand that some people have to lose tenders and make offers when their services are still needed in society. Why do you put down high-quality offers that could help those who are queueing today? I don't get it. Regardless of system and bid and competition and price efficiency: Why does society no longer have room for the offerings of the Salvation Army, the Blue Cross, the Church Social Service, the Church Bymission and the Sanity Women? Why does Norway no longer have room for the small treatment sites run by fires, which have so much to offer? This is the question – not why the market is not working, or why the government does not see that their policies lead to the creation of monopolies and non-discrimination. The Christian People's Party has for a long time fought to ensure the voluntary and non-profit actors a wider future in the health and social sector. Just before Christmas, the Business Committee examined a proposal by the undersigned and several other Christian People's Party representatives. In this context, the majority of the Committee stated that ‘there is an urgent need to establish more long-term and predictable framework conditions’ for healthcare actors and that this ‘should be clarified as soon as possible’. The majority further considered that all possibilities for using different procurement procedures need to be exploited in order to improve procurement. The majority provided that the space for action is used to achieve public procurement in line with political leadership. The majority underlined the need to ensure political governance through public procurement in order to meet the need for good and proper procurement through clear purchasing strategies. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the government parties went so far as to say that they wanted a regime change to save the non-profit sector. What remains now is to find solutions that meet these policy objectives, solutions that are in line with EEA legislation, but provide a different regime than today. The Christian People's Party has promoted four proposals that we hope the government parties will follow up. Because despite political will and good political intentions, the situation in the sector is very critical. An increasing number of non-profit actors are giving up due to difficult framework conditions and, with today’s system, non-profit actors will disappear in a short time. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party wishes to seek special arrangements and derogations from the general principles of tender and market which apply to this type of cooperation between public authorities and private operators. The Christian People's Party believes that the government must put in place a full stop immediately to prevent further damage. We believe that all current procurement processes must be frozen until new guidelines are in place. New guidelines must enter into force as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party also proposes that non-profit actors be lifted from the bidding rounds and that all agreements with non-profit actors be concluded by direct negotiations on contracts rather than by competitive tendering. The general principle should be that the procurement of health and social services from non-profit institutions serving households is subject to direct negotiations on operating contracts, not to competitive tendering. The non-profit sector has its own value. Ensuring the survival of the sector is a political responsibility. Then a completely new regime is necessary. The Christian People's Party has invited all the other parties to a broad settlement in the Grand Duchy. The government parties have still not shown political will enough or political ability to save the non-profit sector. The right-hand side considers that competition and non-discrimination remain the solution for these sectors. The Christian People's Party believes that just a lack of political control from the government parties and competition, that all actors must undergo bidding rounds... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e576	The representative may terminate the sentence, but hardly start new reasoning after the president has clubbed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e579	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e584	Then it turns out that two more representatives have asked for the floor, and there is room for it within the timeframe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e587	In the past, government has often been both a stupid and a poor buyer. Many independent consultants have said to me that no one pays a higher hourly rate than the public, and they do not negotiate the price either. That's why we have to have laws and rules in this area. The rules we have in Norway have many very strong sides, and they have some weak sides. A strong regulatory aspect is that it actually prevents and prevents corruption. But, as I said, there are also some weak sides. I want to draw out one of these. I think that parts of what we see around public acquisitions may be reminiscent of a rocket that cannot be controlled after it has taken off the ramp. If you've entered the wrong coordinates, or you've forgotten to enter coordinates, you're going to do what you can, because you can't change it after the rocket's out. The same applies today with the public tenders. If you've forgotten to type something in the text, or if you've written it wrong, it goes the way it goes, and we know it's going to end like this, even when it happens. To make it a little closer to us who are here today: if the presidency had come to the conclusion that they would like to put the Business Health Service of the Stortinge to tender, and the call text would forget to say that the service should be given on Stortinget, it may be that an offer as good as all the others, but cheapest, comes from a business health service at Hamar. In this case, the employees of the Storting and the representatives of the Storting will have to go up to Hamar to get their health studies. It probably won't be considered very appropriate. Interpellant Bent Höie addresses a concern that we get very large players and, in part, monopolistic formations. There have been a good deal of consolidations among private health establishments in recent years. Wherever this occurs, such mergers or acquisitions have had to be assessed by the competition authorities. Everything that has happened has been approved by the competition authorities. It has been mainly because the competition authorities have ended up assessing it in such a way that it does not become monopoly companies because many of these companies are in real competition with the public sector. I believe that this will lead to some new debates in time, where harmonisation of EU/EEA law may lead to a much greater need for the total outsourcing of public enterprises with a partial activity in a private market. There are going to be very demanding debates. Law and legislation on public procurement should take into account quite complex aspects. That's why the process is going to be difficult. I have great humility toward it, and I have a great understanding of how difficult it must be to stand in exactly that role for the people who are going to make it daily. But the reality out there in healthcare is even more difficult, because there's no law on public acquisitions. There are at least ten other major and important laws and perhaps a hundred different regulations. Therefore, our policy must be to ensure that the process of public acquisitions does not become an end in itself, but becomes something to support an overall good and a general purpose. It is to be supported that we are able to provide good and equivalent health services, that we are able to have short waiting times, and that we are able to have an overall good use of resources in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e609	The President will probably note that it is some time since the Storting met near Hamar, more specifically Elverum. So the president expects it to be a relatively hypothetical example the representative brought forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e612	It is an important topic we are discussing again today. There is a lot of money used to buy private services, and then it is very important that everything goes right, and that we get the best quality possible for the money used. The representative, Tetzschner, claimed that health care businesses are withdrawing private funds to save money. I have to say that I think was a bit of a claim. I would simply say that that is not the case. For example, regional health enterprises have increased their purchases of private rehabilitation services from DKK 995 million in 2005 to SEK 1.3 billion. kr in 2009. Also in 2010 the purchase of such services increased from private individuals. It is clear in the budget, and it will also be stated in the governance papers for regional health enterprises that at least purchases should be made at the same level next year as this year – it was wrong. It shall be at least at the same level this year as it was last year. I think that was correct. Tetzschner will also not accept that in a tendering procedure not everyone can be successful. Besides, it's interesting to note how the Christian People's Party stands for the ideals, and that's what we think is a good commitment, while the two right parties are primarily very important for the commercial ones. So it happens that they also use the ideals – I'm sorry to say that – and maybe push them a little in front of them. But I think that precisely the ideals, of which the Christian People's Party and many of us are particularly concerned – we depend on the others – will lose against the commercials if we let this go for free. I think we are balancing well where we are today, but we have challenges related to tenders being made. That's why we need to ensure quality of these processes, so that they become the very best.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e624	I record that both the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen and the representative Hagebakken are trying to make this a debate for or against tenders, or for or against private ideal and private commercial ones. That is not the debate to which this interpellation really invites. However, if these two representatives believe that tenders should not be used, I suggest that the majority government reject the use of tenders, or that they reject the use of tenders with respect to them. They have the full opportunity. They're in majority. They can do it, but I haven't seen anything about it yet. What one sees, however, is that this government manages health companies that make bids with blindfolds for their eyes, giving totally unsustainable results for Norwegian patients. It is soon time for them to stand up and defend it. The representative Kjersti Toppe and the representative Health had, in my opinion, very good posts. I agree with almost everything, except that the representative Toppe initially does not want a tender. But in those cases where you have a tender, the representative Toppe had a very good input into what you have to pay attention to. Governments in their speeches were very concerned that the tender for the harvest would result in an evaluation. Then it is important for the Stortinget to know what evaluation the Council of State is talking about, for the letter from Health South-East on the radio call in Health South-East concludes that Health South-East will carry out an evaluation of this tender. If that is the evaluation the Council of State refers to, I am in no way reassured, for this is Health South-East's own evaluation of its own bid in a very limited area. If it is the case that the Minister for Health intends to initiate an independent evaluation of all the tenders carried out during the harvest, including: However, in psychiatry, intoxication, rehabilitation and x-ray, one talks about a much more offensive approach that can actually lead to a good political discussion on how to conduct tenders. But that health south-east evaluates its own bids will not bring any change in this area. The Council of State also indicates that the Health West has signed an agreement with many ideals in the field of drugs, and that there is therefore a diversity of offers. What the Council of State does not say is that this diversity lies scattered along the entire West Coast. My concern was the diversity of patients living on the North Jären, because I know that drug addicts living in Sandnes, who need follow-up and post-protection, do not take the bus to Stavanger Railway Station and then change the bus and take it on to the Keyna to get post-protection. Then they become drug users on the way back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e639	This has been an interesting debate, not least because it has actually revealed quite a few of the dilemmas of tendering. What is interesting is to listen to those representatives who initially want more tenders but who are not satisfied with the processes. We're going to go through them. I told you. If Health South-East is to carry out an evaluation and it is to be done independently, it is essential to have confidence in such an evaluation. But we're going to go through the tenders that have been made, and then I'm going to get back to how it should be done in detail. I see that the discussion that has been has pointed to a number of issues that are worth taking along. The starting point when you have a tender is that someone is offered, and therefore others are not given it and are selected in a way. What is important is that the rules governing the tender, the framework for the tender and the professional requirements are known to all and, as the representative of Health rightly pointed out, all these factors must be included in advance, so that this does not go wrong. Then you also have to look at this with competition to make sure that you are not left with monopolies, which may indicate that at least we are not doing after the harvest. So I would say to the Christian People's Party that when we go out to just non-profit sector with bids in health west and in mental health in health south-east, it's precisely because we want to give priority to the non-profit sector and to create good framework conditions for the non-profit sector. It's important. We fully agree that they have done a fantastic job for many years – much more in some areas than in public health. But it's also like that, for example. Health West this year has a bigger offer out there than they had before. They've increased their frames. Then there is someone who has not received any further tenders. I hear that the Christian People's Party wants direct contracts. I find it difficult to see – if you want to choose, and you have more players to choose from – how to avoid tenders. This does not mean that we should not go through legislation, that we should not go through the framework and see if there are any other things that we should have stressed that have not been properly emphasised. Because it's important that you're not left with the impression that things haven't really happened here. We need to have confidence in what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e652	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e671	Mobile telephony and other sources of electromagnetic radiation surround us in everyday life everywhere. It is not possible for the individual citizen to choose whether he or she will be exposed to this radiation or not. If you choose to leave your mobile phone, you will nevertheless be exposed to passive radiation from other people's mobile phones, and from cell phones, transmitters in the new emergency and emergency networks, wireless networks and wireless fixed telephone networks, in schools, workplaces and in public service buildings. Even in one’s own home, you can decide for yourself today’s regulations. Electrically sensitive persons are forced to move because antennas and their neighbours' wireless devices pollute their homes. It's very difficult to find a permanent place without electromagnetic radiation. At the end of the 1990s, several expert groups went critically through the indications available at that time on low-power radiofrequency radiation and possible health effects. They recommended more research on the potential negative health effects of mobile use. On this basis, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, IARC, a WHO body, initiated an international study in 1998–99. Interphone was launched in 2000 as an international group of epidemiological case-control studies in 13 countries worldwide. One was to focus on tumor types in tissues that absorb the most energy from mobile use. Data collection took place between 2000 and 2004. The data included about 2,700 cases of glioma, 2,400 cases of meningea, 1,100 cases of cortical cancer and 100 cases of malignant cancer in the salivary gland, plus a random sample of control persons matched by age, gender and region — about 7,600 combined. The IARC of Professor Elisabeth Cardis has conducted and coordinated the studies. In the coming years after data collection, a number of national studies were published. In 2004, for example, a Swedish study on auditory nerve cancer, which raised significant concerns. The hearing nerve is the tissue in the head that is most exposed when holding the cell phone to the ear. After ten years of mobile use, a risk increase of 90 pst was found. - or 290 pst. when considering which side of the person's head used to hold the phone. In 2007, an Israeli study on cancer occurred in the salivary gland, such as the U.S. 50–60 pst. increased risk when considering which side of the person’s head used to hold the phone. The publication of the final international report, summarising all findings from participating countries, took a long time. The explanation from Elisabeth Cardis was that there was disagreement about the manuscript. During the latent period, the professional journal Microwave News and major international newspapers such as Le Monde, Daily Telegraph and the Los Angeles Times pressed for the results to be published. Only in May 2010 came the final international report. For some reason, the analysis of cancer on the auditory nerve and the salivary gland was missing – according to Cardis, because the complete raw data is still not circulated – after all these years. The main study concludes with a two-part conclusion, which can be interpreted in exactly the direction you want, depending on which part you place the most emphasis on: the data suggest an increased risk of glioma, and a much smaller increase in risk of meningea, at the highest exposure levels, and for cancer development on the side of the head you keep mobile, and, in the case of glioma, an increased risk of tumours in the tincer. But battle sites and errors limit the strength of the conclusion we can draw from these analyses, and prevent us from interpreting the results as cause-effect. Ten years and 19 million. According to this conclusion, we are at the heart of the euro later on. Most strange of the results in the main study is that most analyses show a reduced risk of brain tumors in mobile applications. Mobile use must therefore protect against cancer! This is such an unlikely result that scientists do not believe it either. They agree that the outcome must be due to errors and data gaps. Let me list some of the defects in the design and datasets of the Interphone study: People who used a wireless fixed phone were considered to be unexposed – despite the fact that this radiation is of the same type as that from mobile phones and, in addition, 24 hours a day on a continuous basis, and despite the fact that information on the use of microwave devices other than mobile phones had actually been obtained in the interviews. wireless phone. Insufficient latency for the development of cancer: studies have shown that carcinogens such as tobacco and X-rays do not result in cancer until at least 10-20 years after the first exposure, except in very rare cases. Therefore, the fact that Interphone starts to see the drawing of increased risks already after two to four years of mobile use is particularly alarming. Unrealistic definition of ‘usual’ mobile user: A normal mobile user was defined to be one calling at least once a week for at least six months. A major user is a mobile phone user for 1 640 hours, equivalent to half an hour a day for 10 years. For me, it's a very normal mobile phone user. Exclusion of children and the elderly from the survey: The study is limited to adults aged 30–59 years, i.e. the most robust age group. Exclusion of several types of brain tumor. Exclusion of persons who had died or were too sick to be interviewed as a result of their brain tumor. Participant page: This is a case in point. on a number of lower participation rates in the control group than in the testing group and on lower participation rates among those who used their mobile phone less than among those who used their mobile phone a lot. The main findings were presented in the final report as no connection between mobile use and brain tumors among normal mobile users, but it was also found that they called cell phone users have 40 pst. increased risk of brain tumor. The strange thing is that Annex 2 provides a revised analysis with a different data base, which the authors said was required because of design and method problems in the main study. When there is an unclear control group, as the author admits, it is recommended to run a risk calculation with another reference group, namely the test group that was at least exposed to radiation. This was done in Annex 2. In the corrected analysis in Annex 2, the final report has a 40 pst. increase in the risk of glioma in the so-called major users to 82 pst. increased risk. There is also a statistically significant increased risk, 68 pst., for the development of glioma in those who had used mobile phones as little as two to four years, and 118 pst. increased risk to those who had used a mobile phone for 10 years or more. The figures in Annex 2 show that the risk of glioma increases relatively evenly over the number of years of mobile phone use. Furthermore, the risk increases quite evenly with the number of daily telephone calls. Remarkably, attachment 2 was not sent to the press. The World Health Organisation website contains a press release that refers only to the findings in the main report. It must be allowed to ask why the corrected analysis in Annex 2 was not presented during the discussion of the results of the main report, as indicated in the Convention. The state's radiation protection system has contented itself with reproducing the WHO press release on Interphone. Why has not Staten Radiation Protection itself studied both the main report and Annex 2 and provided more accurate and complete information to Norwegian citizens and politicians? The exclusion of the final report is due to disagreement between two fractions of the Interphone group. This leaked to the public during a meeting of the Bioelectromagnetics Society in San Diego in the summer of 2008. The distinction goes between the group that repeats that there is no risk and the group that states that the data show an increased risk of cancer in mobile use, and pre-war measures are necessary. There has been a struggle for the final publication. The consensus was never reached. A compromise was reached in the two-part conclusion and in the two different analyses of the data. The question is, Whom should we believe in? Elisabeth Cardis is clear in all his answers to the press: in my opinion, the results show a real increase in risk. The question we need to ask ourselves is: Is this enough to base a precautionary practice in Norway as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e761	The Interphone study is the largest study on the risk of tumour development after mobile phone use that has been carried out to date. The study comprises 13 countries, and the World Health Organisation's cancer research institute has carried out the study. Norway was represented at the Cancer Register and Staten Radiation Protection. When the study was published, the State Radiation Protection Agency sent out a press release on the results. The representative Gitmark points out that the press release refers only to the majority of the report and not to the attachments – which showed a higher risk. The straw supplier chose to send out a press release containing the same information as the press release from the International Cancer Research Institute, IARC. The straw supplier then elaborates detailed information on the results of the Interphone study. The main study is a regular patient-control study and a standard method has been used in epidemiological studies. In such studies, there are always many elements that are difficult to predict during planning. The straw supplier emphasises that in the case of research into mobile phone use, there may be more uncertainties than in other areas. An example is that mobile use is self-reported and not objectively measured. Methodological weaknesses are found in all epidemiological studies. Researchers always seek to minimise the uncertainty of the method. In its information on the Interphone study, Straw liver details the contents of the annexes to the main study. Information is provided that the annexes contain analyses where they have used a different control group than in the main study — which will affect the outcome. There was an increased risk among people who started with a mobile phone ten years ago or more, and with those who had spoken for most hours. The change of control group reduces the credibility of the analyses in the Annex, but nevertheless warrants further research. The straw liver informs that the researchers who have planned and completed the Interphone study are well-known epidemiologists. In the report, they also discuss weaknesses and uncertainties in the results. The straw supplier states that the analyses in the main article are the original one and must be emphasised. The Interphone study is the largest in its kind, and is thus an important contribution to the research on mobile use and health risks. I would like to stress that the Straw Delivery does not manage this area on the basis of individual studies alone. The results of the Interphone study must be seen in conjunction with all other knowledge available in this field before conclusions can be drawn. In particular, this is important when the findings are not unambiguous and when there are methodological weaknesses in the study. Mobile phone use has increased significantly in recent years. Today has 80-90 pst. of the population mobile phone, and base stations are installed throughout the country. Wireless networks are spreading and increasingly being installed in homes, offices, schools and urban centres. The increased use of mobile phones has led to increased concerns about potential health effects associated with mobile phones and driving near base stations. The government takes the concern about radiation related to communication technology seriously. Until possible health effects are known, it is important that the international recommendations on limit values are followed. The Radiation Protection Regulation also requires that all exposures be kept as low as practicable, including in areas where health risks are not documented. This implies seeking to further reduce exposure even if it is already below the maximum levels. The assumption is that it can be done without significant disadvantages. In order to minimise exposure, the Radiation Protection Authority recommends the use of hand-free equipment so that the phone is kept away from the head during conversation. They also recommend that they have good mobile coverage and use SMS. These recommendations are based on a precautionary principle. I would also like to mention that the National Institute of Public Health has appointed an expert group in the field of electromagnetic fields and health. The group is broadly composed of professionals with competence in medicine, epidemiology, biology, physics, philosophy, statistics and technology. None of the members have an industry connection. The electrical hypersensitivity association has an observer in the group and thus contributes to the transparency of this work. The team shall summarise all available knowledge on the health effects of exposure to weak high frequency fields. Today, different practices exist in different countries in the handling of mobile masts, base stations and wireless networks. The Ministry has therefore requested that the expert group also look into Norwegian administration and legislation in this area. The Group will deliver its report in autumn 2011. When the report of the expert group is available, the Department will take a position on further follow-up, including the national recommendations on how to achieve low exposure in the environment in which people live and move.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e804	The Interphone Final Report does not summarise the results of previous research in this area, as it is appropriate to do. It would have been natural to refer to, among other things. a 2009 meta-analysis, based on 23 studies and over 12000 cancer patients plus around 25000 control persons. The study found a significant positive covariance, i.e. harmful effect, by adding together the results of eight ‘high-quality’ studies with blinding, most of which were also similar to those of participants in the testing and control group. These were the seven studies of Professor Lennart Hardell and staff at Örebro University, plus a previous Interphone study of melanoma, Stag 2001. However, overall results from 15 other studies — with lower quality — show a significant negative covariance. This is mainly concerned with Interphone studies without blinding and with lower absorption in the control group than in the test group. The term ‘blinding’ indicates that researchers have not been informed about who actually suffered from brain tumors and who did not, while doing the interviews on mobile use. The point, then, is that the studies where researchers did not know whether or not the interview objects had developed a relationship between mobile use and brain tumor. There the researchers during the interviews knew who patients were, and who was the control group, they found the opposite: that mobile use prevents cancer on the brain. The meta-analysis also mentions that the Hardell group’s research, which concludes with an increased risk of cancer, is characterised by unreserved researchers. Unlike the 15 other studies, the Hardell Group had not received money from the mobile industry. In this context, it can be mentioned that American professor Henry Lai had made a census of research in electromagnetic fields and health. The enumeration shows that 72 pst. of the industry-funded studies have not found a negative health effect of mobile radiation, while the corresponding numbers for the independent studies are 33 pst. Governments say several things that it's worth focusing on. In particular, the fact that no clear results have been found is worth focusing on. That's exactly where we agree. There are more and more reports referring to health damage, but there is also a significant number, and the large majority, who do the opposite. The question remains: is this enough to underpin the precautionary principle when we set our radiation limits here in Norway? Governments also say that the government takes the health effects of radiation seriously. The problem is that it is very difficult to see changes over the last few years in relation to just the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e825	This is a very technical and very professional interpellation that most of the time really requires some professional answers. What is a political answer in this is how you act, and who you listen to, in a situation where you don't necessarily have all the answers, or it's not unambiguous. Then we follow the World Health Organization's cancer research institute, which provides leadership. We have done that in this context, while saying that we will also follow up in other areas, especially with regard to the expert group that I mentioned and that has no industry connection. It is important that they are perceived as independent and totally unhindered in relation to these areas, where, after all, economic motives for conclusions can be suspected. I'm not saying it's done here, but it can be very easily connected to it. So it's important that the work done should be independent. It is also such that the radiation protection regulation we follow follows international recommendations on limit values. In addition, this Regulation requires all exposures to be kept as low as practicable, including in areas where there is no evidence of health risk. I believe that as long as there are no other findings that have also been internationally agreed, it will be important to follow the precautionary principle. When we say this with radiation is an area that the government follows closely, that's the reality of it. We have an institute to follow this field, the State Radiation Protection, and as said this group of experts, which is important, and which we should follow further in what is happening both in Norway and internationally in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e840	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses an important theme that interests many. The problem is relatively new because mobile technology is young. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss a topic that has addressed me over several years in another role. Interpellence refers to the so-called Interphone project, with participants from 13 countries, including Norway, and led by the World Health Organisation’s International Cancer Research Institute. The design of the study is to investigate whether mobile use results in statistical analyses as an independent explanation variable for brain tumours. There have been high expectations for the Interphone study, and many had hoped that it would give a final answer as to whether mobile phone use increases the risk of brain tumors. It must be said that the study has not provided a definitive answer to the fundamental problem. This is regrettable, because many are concerned about the question, and many are concerned. In our environment, we are constantly exposed to background radiation. However, radiation from electrical articles is different from that from communication equipment. The biological effects are very different and cannot be addressed together, as we often see in the media. Since mobile phones are relatively new and involve a new exposure to electromagnetic fields, professional environments recommend a pre-war behaviour by using hands-free and ensuring good coverage – this last because the radiation load from the phone itself increases by distance from the transmission mast. The Interphone study has been published in the reputable journal International Journal of Epidemiology, and the main scientific conclusions are that there was no increased risk of brain tumor development of the type of gliomer and meningeomas associated with the use of mobile phones. Gliomers are malignant tumours with different growth rates, and meningomers are predominantly benign tumours. An increased risk of brain tumours was observed among those in the highest exposure groups, but biases and errors in the material lead to difficult interpretation of a causal relationship. When you go into the individual results, you see that most of the analyses show a protective effect of mobile use. This is surprising and indicates that there are biases in the material. When a consistent pattern is not found in the results, it is difficult to focus unilaterally on elevated values in small subgroups. If a similar finding were to occur in a smoking and lung cancer study, the use of five cigarettes a day could have been protected from lung cancer development, while a subset of major users had more lung cancer. It would be difficult to explain such a finding, also because a biological mechanism would not be known. Furthermore, the study shows that the risk ratio was highest among those who used the mobile phone for a short period of time, but who had spoken for many hours. Based on the usual biological understanding of cancer development, it is unusual that time from exposure to solid tumour development should be so short. Especially surprising is that this should be the case for an assumed slow-growing tumor as a meningo. We have to be honest and acknowledge that over the last 20 years, there has been little progress in causality in brain tumors. This is a difficult subject. Old and new hypotheses must be tested using scientific methods. International expert committees and our national professional authorities have an overview of the research results and the strengths and weaknesses of each study. The expert committees have now found that there is no increased risk of brain tumors using mobile phones. The Interphone study therefore recommends further research. As long as the fasitoid responses with three lines below are not available, we should all use our heads. It means two things: Use hands-free, and make sure you have good coverage. Then there's a completely different debate if we need to use the phone as much as we do. I think it would create better public health if more people turned off the phone more often.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e880	Let me first commend the Minister of Health for a thorough and good answer in his statement and also for having a sensible approach to the issue. The interpellant addresses a subject on which information is limited in terms of adverse effects. Anyway, I think it's important that we always have a focus that ensures the population. I believe that today we have a generally good protection in Norway versus other countries in this area. There are countries that operate at lower levels but do not comply at the same time because they send much stronger signals. There are international rules for this today, as I said, and I think we here in the country are good versus other countries to comply with what is acceptable. There is a lot of research and reports that crack as much as the number of reports that have been made. I believe this, among other things. because it is relatively short time we have had with this type of means of communication. At the same time, it's very individual what is perceived as unpleasant and/or annoying radiation. However, when it is claimed from some teams that a high level of mobile phone use poses an increased risk for, among other things. tumor on the brain, yes, we'll take it seriously. I think we should have more research in this area before we conclude with one or the other, on the basis of all the different reports that are not consistent. I don't think it will be possible to protect everyone at any time from any radiation hazard in this field – this because we all have different levels of sensitivity – but I welcome a greater effort to get a good qualitative research in place to get an even better and safer knowledge in this area, because some people claim to have trouble with this, and because some claim that there is an increased risk associated with mobile use and radiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e898	First, I would like to thank the representative Gitmark for the interference. I'm going to admit that I'm no expert in this field, but it's an important topic that very many people are concerned about, and it's a trick to see if there's any cancer in mobile use. We know that there is radiation in mobile phone use, and mobile phone is something that many people use. 80-90 pst. of the population have mobile phones. My particular concern is that there are increasing numbers of children and growing younger children who use mobile phones every day. Therefore, we have concerns about possible health effects using mobile phones and wireless networks. As elected representatives, we must take this concern seriously from those we represent. And then there's one reason that's said here. It's that most of us as we sit here today are major consumers as defined in the report. Based on what the Health Committee has been busy about in this matter, I would like to mention that in the budget review for both 2010 and 2011, there were several comments on mobile radiation. We have underlined the need for more knowledge about the potential health risks of radiation from mobile phones and wireless networks. We have referred to the multidisciplinary expert group that the government has seen down in the field of electromagnetic fields and health. This group, as mentioned by the Minister of Health, is broadly composed and will deliver his report in the autumn of 2011. In the Committee's budgetary statement, the group has taken the view that it is linked to the necessary international expertise and that it takes good account of the user perspective. So the interpellant asked the question about the follow-up to the final report of the international Interphone project and asked questions about the analysis. I do not have knowledge that can verify that there are biases and errors in this study, which limit the possibility of drawing conclusions and assessing causality, or whether it is such that the worst results are hidden in the appendixes of the study. I thought it was important that a follow the precautionary principle. I think it's done well in the debate here today, both from the Council of State and from the representative of Are Health, that it's hard to focus on one-sided results from this investigation that attract high values among the major consumers. The answer given is that we need further research in this area, that an Interphone study is the basis for it, and that we have to wait for the expert group to decide. So I agree with Are Health that it's also interesting from a health perspective to look at how much we use the phone, and what it has to say for health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e919	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this debate. If that's something I'm sure of, it's that we're going to have more debates on this in the time that's coming. It is always necessary to assess whether new technology affects our body and health. The Christian People's Party believes that the starting point must be that we are leading were in this field as in other fields, especially if there are reports of discomfort or damage that can be associated with either existing or new technology. Knowledge of the effects of technology is crucial and health problems can be linked to it. I will not go into the Interphone study as such – there are actually more who have already done – but just point out the need and importance of independent research. Of course, it's important that the results are to be trusted, so that these create trust. It is also sad, as many people have said, that the Interphone study does not provide any clearer answers because of bias and errors. It's the same type of radiation that comes from cell phones. Many today are concerned about the radiation to which they are exposed. They feel that antennas are set up on the roofs that it is impossible to get rid of when residents report plague and disease. Community needs, including: related to new emergency network, used as counter-arguments. This is not a pre-war practice, as I see it. Mobile companies must also be able to take the costs of setting up mobile masters further away from people when they are afraid of health damage, or when they are actually reported. Last night, I had a meeting with a leader in a housing strike here in Oslo, where very many residents have had symptoms they think are due to radiation from several antennas set up on one of the roofs where people live. This is radiation that people are exposed to 24 hours a day. It's almost impossible to get the masts removed. State councils indicated that radiation should be kept as low as possible if there are no major disadvantages associated with it. I agree. So the Council of State shows, for example: for the use of wire. However, I feel that it is important to point out that the suppliers of this equipment must also be able to take responsibility for keeping the radiation as low as possible. The question is whether economics is such a disadvantage, because I can't see that it's only economics that make it difficult to move these masts for the companies, and that maybe that's what makes you choose not to move them. We also had a debate in Bergen a few years ago about the Kalmar house, where a number of residents wanted to get rid of the masts because they had problems with this. It was eventually appealed to the Ministry of Transport, which actually allowed the supplier to keep the masts until 2018 until further notice, and perhaps they will be allowed to continue. In the newspaper Budstikka from December we could read that the fire services in Asker and Bærum have largely parked their new emergency contact because of what they think are radiation plagues. But the Emergency Communications Directorate rejects the fact that there is reason to fear radiation. They relate again to the State's radiation protection system. Firefighters, on their part, demonstrated the extent to which the Safety and Health at Work Committee decided that the use of Tetra’s emergency connection should be kept to an absolute minimum. It is also a reality, and not without reason, that several municipalities start their own precautionary measures. I can mention Stavanger, Sola, Sandnes, Kristiansand and the Western Aker district. I also want to mention that the Seletune report is similar around the corner. It could be very interesting. The Council of State stated that there is an interpellation that is technical and professional. I agree. She also says: Who are we to listen to – WHO, Staten Radiation Protection, the expert group? Yes, absolutely. But I also think we have to listen to people. We have to listen to the firefighters, who are already alerted, and to an ever-increasing group of people who think they have health problems due to radiation. I hope we can listen to all of these too. The debate today has revealed the need for more research. Wireless networks, mobile antennas on roofs and mobile phones concern us all, and it is increasingly being developed. The Christian People's Party meets the government's initiatives for more independent research, but also a clear precautionary policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e952	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. I think it has been a good debate. I regret that the debate is technical, but it is a continuous debate. This is in just this ageing period one of several debates in the area, and I am absolutely sure that we will follow up in a short time, among other things. about the Tetra network and what we've seen in relation to the firemen in Asker. A French expert group has reviewed 2,500 serious research reports on radiofrequency radiation. A few of these meet the very strict quality requirements of the Committee. And a few of these again show that the radiation from cell phones etc. have biological effects and may present a health risk. But the director of the French Directorate for Health and Safety at Work, Martin Guespereau, points out that it is not the number of studies it depends on. The high quality of the studies makes the findings indisputable. On this basis, the expert group recommends reducing the exposure of the population to radiation. Although the findings are not sufficient to definitely conclude, the indisputable signs are that radiation can have negative health effects, points to guespereau, and then we cannot continue to do anything. The French government’s response was to ban mobile phones in primary and secondary schools and to introduce low radiation limits in 16 sample municipalities. What happened in France is a good example of how to practice the precautionary principle: a wide-ranging group of experts review available evidence, pay particular attention to scientific uncertainty and include minority opinions. After they have thus assessed the risk, it is up to the politicians to deal with it. I also think the Council of State is so good. The Council of State and I fully agree that this must ultimately be the policy area when the professionals fail to conclude. If we are to base the precautionary principle or not, this hall and we politicians belong to decide – no one else! There are a number of technical reports on the one hand and on the other which are not capable of referring to unique findings. However, it is alarming to see more and more reports referring to health damage. Then the question is again to the Council of State: when can we see that the precautionary principle really begins to be followed? Let me give the Council a few examples of what can be done in the short term. Is there any basis for having wireless networks in primary and secondary schools, or, for that matter, in schools at all when we can wire and improve the Internet in that way? Isn't it just convenience that makes us doubt today's technology? If municipalities have the ability to set lower radiation limits than the State radiation protection system says, then an interesting principle that needs to be looked at is also an interesting one. I believe that we have gone far too far in ignoring the ever more electrically sensitive. When we cannot agree on a pre-war attitude in Norway, we cannot follow all those who are injured.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e976	Although this is technically complicated, I would say that it has been a very interesting political debate. So I think the interpellant has raised a very important topic, and, as we also hear, there is unanimity about what you really want politically. There is no doubt that we want the precautionary principle to be applied. In the course of the debate, too, this has come up with all these things that we surround ourselves with every day: do we need it? Do you want to do it the same way? The interpellant just asked: Should we have wireless nets versus wiring? There are at least questions that I can take with me to Staten Radiation Protection and ask for an opinion on, which is absolutely interesting, and which applies to a lot of people. So I want to say that if there was one practical thing that could come out of this debate here today, it was that it was unanimous political, and a strong recommendation from the Stortinget, that everyone is using hands-free and does not have the mobile phone up to his head. At least it would be to follow the precautionary principle of what we personally can do. In addition, it is interesting with these municipalities that introduce the precautionary principle and are aware of it and take it into account. It's clear that here we can also do something to the municipalities to make them aware of the importance that they also make these assessments when they allow to set up masters. I'm not going to say that they don't do it today, but it's never harmful with a reminder in an area that we, after all, don't know enough about. We don't know the consequences, because after all, it's relatively new. Then I have to say that I look forward with anticipation to the group of experts who are going to present their report for the autumn. After all, it may come into being, and it may get together, new knowledge, and in that case we will have to decide on it when the report arrives. But that there's going to be a development here, at least it's certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e992	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1009	The EEA Agreement has changed our daily lives. From morning to evening we surround ourselves with services and products where the European Union has determined the law. Arguing governments have brought Norway ever closer to the EU. Several thousand small and large decisions have become part of Norwegian law since 1994. These rules have influenced everything from daily purchases, jobs, education, leisure, travel, environmental protection, to mention a few. In these days, several directives on the way into Norwegian legislation are being discussed. Both the Deposit Directive and the Data Storage Directive are examples of directives that will engage and create debates. Debates are too long, but I will leave them in this round. The Consumer Rights Directive is a third directive to be adopted in the EU during the spring and will then be an important part of our future consumer policy. For this reason, it is important that the debate and processes ahead of the Brussels decision should be placed on the agenda of us parliamentarians to a greater extent than we have done so far. The result of what we know now is that it can have a huge impact on what consumer rights we have in the future. My interpellation is an attempt to create debate, to find out how a new Consumer Rights Directive will affect what we have, and not least to put consumer policy on the political agenda. In Norway, we have a consumer policy that ensures us consumers in a number of areas. Earlier today, we have seen our rights in connection with the conclusion of loans, and without entering into all our consumer rights, we can summarize the whole thing by saying that our rights as consumers are strong in Norway. Although today's arrangements are good, it is important to recognise that our consumer rights are not a static system. We need to work both nationally and internationally to secure and further develop our systems. We need to adapt to new needs and also developments that we see happen around us. It is not obvious that tomorrow's consumers have the same rights as we have today, but our political challenge is that they should be at least as good as today's system, but adapted to tomorrow's needs. Consumer rights have traditionally been a national task where we have defined the level ourselves. Gradually, we have implemented a number of EU directives in our legislation, including on the consumer side. The next forthcoming directive, as mentioned above, is the new EU Consumer Rights Directive. The new Consumer Rights Directive is expected to be adopted in the spring of 2011. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus here on the Stortinget regarding consumer policy. This consensus is also anchored in a common demand that this directive should not be adopted as it is in the proposal from the European Commission, and I am concerned by the signals from the work being done in Brussels. On the basis of these signals, we cannot sit still and look at our good consumer rights being challenged, as the European Commission's proposal suggests. The Commission's original proposal for uniform consumer legislation in the EU, so-called total harmonisation, will include, inter alia: reduce the period of appeal from five to two years and the possibility of settling unfair contractual terms will be severely limited. Overall harmonisation means that EU directives become mandatory. To date, consumer rules have been given as minimum directives, which means that there is a minimum standard that everyone must respect, but that countries are free to introduce stronger protection if necessary. The proposed harmonisation would have weakened both current and future consumer protection by tying consumer law. At the same time, national authorities are deprived of the opportunity to adapt legislation in line with market changes and new products. Now I am aware that the Commission's proposal is somewhat modified, but still the new leaders will challenge us in several areas. I know that it is both done and done a good job to promote Norwegian views on the Consumer Rights Directive. It is reassuring that our views are firmly rooted in the other EFTA/EEA countries. In addition, it reinforces the views of the EFTA/EEA countries that our consumer authorities and the other European consumer authorities have similar views in this matter. I attend the Council of State's interventions in view of how official Norway is working to secure our rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1037	The interpellant addresses important issues, and I am pleased that consumer policy is put on the agenda of the Stortinget. These are issues that concern both our domestic consumer rights and how Norway as an EEA country can influence the legislative process in the EU. I can assure you that the government is very concerned about both, and I am happy to explain our active work on this matter. The proposal for a directive to which the interpellant refers was promoted by the European Commission in the autumn of 2008. As the representative points out, this is a proposal which could have a significant impact on European law and, through the EEA Agreement, also on Norwegian law and the legal status of Norwegian consumers and traders. On the one hand, the proposal for a directive revises and replaces no less than four existing directives, and on the other hand, is the reason for the wide-ranging impact that the Commission's proposals are based on total harmonisation, where we cannot have divergent rules. The existing Directives are based on the minimum principle, which allows countries to go further in consumer protection. Overall harmonisation is therefore more prejudicial to the ability of countries to decide on their own legislation. The proposal for a Directive covers legislation in different parts of contract law and concerns legislation under the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion. The follow-up to the proposal for a directive is therefore carried out in cooperation between these two departments. The Norwegian view of the Commission's original proposal can be summarised as follows: As this proposal is designed, it leads to a weakening of consumer protection in Norway in some areas. The government’s starting point has been that Norwegian consumer rights should not be weakened, overall. One key element is that Norway prefers minimum harmonisation, so that we can impose stricter requirements than those laid down in the proposal for a directive. We are initially sceptical about total harmonisation – I know that position also at the interpellant – but we see that there may be less cause for scepticism in some areas. For example, a level playing field in the EEA may be appropriate in terms of the length of the withdrawal period, which in Norway is 14 days. It was therefore suggested in the Norwegian position that the issue of harmonisation should be decided on a case-by-case basis. The government considered it important to continue Norwegian rules which are considered particularly important for consumer protection. This applies, inter alia, to: a five-year guarantee period is required for goods which are intended to last significantly longer than two years, which we have in Norway today. This may, for example: be applicable to goods such as washing machines and television sets. On the other hand, the Commission's proposal has an absolute two-year guarantee period in order to claim shortcomings in a product. It has also been important to be able to maintain the consumer's right to choose between correction and replacement in the event of defects and, in certain cases, the right to a replacement during the waiting period for repair or replacement. Norway also has a recent provision on requirements for written confirmation by the consumer that contracts concluded in the event of unsolicited telephone sales are to be considered valid. This provision has been very effective in Norway and it is important that it can be maintained. The Consumer Ombudsman, who supervises the Marketing Act, indicates that the number of complaints has fallen significantly as a result of this provision. So to the interpellant's question about what has been done by the Norwegian side to safeguard the consumer interests in this case. I can assure you that there has been a great commitment from the Norwegian side. We've also noticed a positive commitment from the Storting. Both the consumer authority and the government have done a lot of work and made a great deal of effort to influence the process in the EU. The Commission’s proposal was first sent to a wide-ranging consultation in Norway after it was submitted in October 2008. In order to improve the awareness of business and other stakeholders of the proposal, a representative of the Commission was invited to an open consultation meeting in Oslo in January 2009. The meeting provided useful input and clarification for the legislative process. Following the consultation round, Norwegian positions were dealt with by the government. Joint opinions of the EEA/EFTA countries have been drawn up in two stages: first to the draft Directive from March 2009 and then to the last autumn of the EU Parliament. Prior to these opinions, consultations were held in Norway. The EEA/EFTA opinions have been actively followed up. At meetings of the EFTA Consumers Working Group, representatives of the Commission, the European Parliament and the alternate Presidencies have been invited to present and discuss the development of the Directive. It has also provided its own Norwegian input on several occasions on important provisions of the Directive to Members of the European Parliament and other actors and institutions. At political level, both the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Minister for Justice and State Secretaries of the two departments met with government councils and State secretaries in Spain and Sweden under the presidency of these countries, with EU parliamentarians and with the cabinet of the EU Justice Commissioner. In addition, an early contact group was set up between the departments concerned in the Nordic countries to assess the impact of the Directive. In particular, the departments have benefited greatly from the EU Delegation in Brussels, which has had broad contacts and meetings with selected delegations from EU countries, in particular the Presidency countries. In Norway, we have also had information meetings with, among others. the consumer institutions and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the corresponding meetings with the NHO and HSH for dialogue and mutual information on the work on the proposal for a directive. The examination of the Directive both in the Council of Ministers working group and in the European Parliament showed early that there was considerable opposition to the overall harmonisation of the Directive and that there was a major concern that consumer rights should be weakened in different countries. In March 2010, the EU Justice Commissioner announced that the Commission had indicated on this basis the ambitions for total harmonisation and would instead be in favour of a ‘targeted harmonisation’ model. This may be described as a complete harmonisation model with the exception of allowing for better consumer protection for certain parts or provisions than the Directive. This has later affected treatment in the other EU bodies as well. In June 2010, the rapporteur of the Single Market Committee of the European Parliament presented a concrete revised proposal on the basis of such a mixed harmonisation model. A number of amendments have been proposed, which are under consideration, with a view to voting in the Committee at the end of January of this year and the first reading in Parliament in March. The discussion in the Council of Ministers working group took a new turn at the end of last year. After the Belgian Presidency concluded that it was not possible to reach an agreement on the chapters on purchase rights and unfair contractual terms, it agreed to delete those chapters in the Council of Ministers' decision of 20 December. This means that Member States are in favour of harmonising only certain rules relating to distance and off-premises sales, such as: telephone sales, Internet sales and purchases, and street and fair sales. Such a Directive would be very limited in comparison with the Commission’s original proposal. The impact of Norwegian legislation will be reduced accordingly. How Parliament – the other party in the decision-making process – will react to the Council of Ministers’ decision and its impact on its suspension and further progress is difficult to assess at this stage. However, much is probably drawing towards a rather different directive, with a smaller scope than originally proposed by the European Commission. In any case, further developments will be closely followed from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1093	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good and, not least, complementary response to my interpellation. It is reassuring to be made visible and to be confirmed that the common objective of ensuring the best possible future consumer rights is well-managed by several teams. It is also possible to confirm the latest signals from Brussels that suggest that our established rights may not be as large a monn as we originally thought will be threatened. But that there will be changes, I am convinced – we will have to count on it. Our common job is to try to help ensure that the final result is best suited to our consumer rights even when we meet in 2012. Governments presented the good work that both government and government have done and are still doing. There is also reason to pay tribute to our consumer authorities, both the Consumer Council and the Consumer Ombudsman, who in my view have done an excellent job to influence their sister organisations in Europe. The question and the challenge is, what about us magnification representatives, what can we do? My answer is: we can do a lot – if we want to! The Treaty of Lisbon has helped to give the European Parliament a more central role in the decisions to be taken in the EU. This opens up new opportunities to meet decision-makers at parliamentary level. To achieve results, exposure is important. Therefore, my experience is that it is necessary for us, as parliamentarians, to talk to our sister parties in the European Parliament, in order to try to influence the decisions on, among other things. the new Consumer Directive. The Labour Party has taken this challenge seriously. We have been in Brussels several times and have met social-democratic colleagues in Parliament. We have participated in group meetings. We have been argued for our views, and we have been heard. Our colleagues both from the Nordic countries and from Germany have similar interests with us to care for their country's consumers. It is also a strength for them that we raise the same points of view. In the European Parliament, it is also the case that power prevails. The social-democratic side stands up against the civil side, which is also behind the proposal for the new Consumer Directive. There is a strong political consensus on consumer policy in Norway. My call to my fellow citizens on the civil side is: Do what you can to influence their fellow citizens in the European Parliament in the process that remains, before a final decision on a new consumer directive is taken in the next six months. At the end of the day, I would like to call for greater commitment from us parliamentarians when future EU directives are being discussed. It's too late when the decisions are taken. Our experience with the Consumers Directive shows that commitment to our colleagues in the European Parliament is both important and useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1112	After hearing the inter-pellant's answer, I am convinced that we are playing on the team, and that the call goes to politicians as much as to the magnificence representatives. We have good experience, on our part, of using both the EFTA channel and having direct contact with the EU system in Brussels. But it is very good to use an additional power of influence through political contacts with the decision-makers who are working further on this matter. It is also the case that we have good contact with our Nordic colleagues on the part of the Department. Given that the Nordic countries are probably the most developed consumer protection countries, this will be an important strength for the process further. Here, I think it is important that we rather go ahead as an example to other countries, that we give consumers protection by having clear rules for both complaint and remorse and everything that concerns purchase, and that we are ready in our consumer policy that the consumer should have rights. The consumer must be able to demand to know how the products have been produced – one must simply be able to answer questions relating to the products and to the production process. There should be cleanliness and regularity in the legislation, and there should be a good communication of our legislation to consumers. I think we have a good thing to do, along with other countries that are on the same line as us, of course, mainly the Nordic countries. I also hope, as the State Council currently responsible for this area, that we can get a good step forward in getting something different from what was the original Commission proposal, the total harmonisation, which would probably put Norwegian consumer protection far back. I am very grateful that I obviously have the Storting with me in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1121	It is a particularly important matter that the representative Simensen addresses in this interview. As the interpellant pointed out, the EU would like to establish common consumer rights for the 27 Member States and the three EEA countries. The EU has gradually adopted many directives containing consumer protection. I can mention the Package Travel Directive, the Remote Sales Directive and several others. Many of these directives came up with rules that we had already had for a long time in Norway. This is a so-called minimum directive. This means that a Member State is required to introduce a certain minimum of consumer protection, but an allowed country to have better rules than that provided for by the Directive. Norway currently has legislation that provides good consumer protection. I want to go so far as to say that we are good at consumer protection. This is what we want to continue. It has therefore been important for the Labour Party to ensure that we maintain the current consumer protection – or at any rate enhance the interests of consumers. I am pleased that the Government and the Council of State are aware of the resistance to total harmonisation in some areas of the Directive. A fully harmonised Directive would most likely mean that EEA countries in their national legislation cannot introduce or maintain rules such as those provided for in the proposed Directive. It is gratifying that the government is actively working to influence the proposed directive so that Norway can continue to maintain a high level of consumer protection. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to commend the government for the work done to the Council of Ministers and the European Commission. Let me also include the consumer authorities in this rose. I would also like to remind you, like the inter-pellant, that several Norwegian parliamentarians have worked actively against the European Parliament and the Single Market Committee in this matter. This is a unique case in many ways. I cannot imagine that Norwegian policymakers have been so active in their work as to link an EU directive in this matter. In general, EU directives have been the subject of political discussion only after the EU has submitted its directive. In this case, however, we have been active at parliamentarian level before the EU has concluded, and have thus helped to influence the process of taking care of Norwegian interests. This way of working has been important in this matter, and will be important in future matters. After the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in November 2009, the European Parliament has gained more power and influence. This opens up that we, too, as big politicians, will be able to influence future directives before they are adopted, to a greater extent than before, through discussions and cooperation with our colleagues in the European Parliament. In this case, both the state councils, the government, the consumer authorities and the big business politicians have worked for Norwegian interests in different forums. That is good, and it shows that it is useful to influence the political direction in the EU only one is out early enough. We now know that the Council of Ministers has just taken a decision which means that the impact on Norwegian legislation may not be as great as it looked after the Commission’s original proposal. That's good. What remains is the discussion in committee and in Parliament, which is likely to take place in a very short time. But what you can already conclude is that there will be a completely different directive than what was originally proposed. I am pleased that the Council of State has now repeated that Norway's position is still that Norwegian consumer rights should not be weakened, as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1147	I also want to thank the interpellant for addressing the important topic he has addressed in this interpellation. I'm, like the interpellant, concerned about the outcome of this case. I almost regret that we have not had this debate before, too often it is that when we have directives and other EEA and EU issues up to us, it is very many times that matters are going through the Storting without any special debate about them. It's probably the case that there might be the Data Storage Directive and the debate on what's got a very big focus in the media, and then maybe this has gotten a little bit in the shadow. It is not good, and it is therefore gratifying that we can have this debate here today, although not so many are involved in the debate. So in Norway we have very good consumer rights. That's good, and that's how it should be. I am also very pleased that there is no political disagreement in the Storting that it is important to have good consumer rights in place. With regard to this Directive, it appears that it will actually be dealt with at the end of the month and that there will be a proposal for total harmonisation. Then it turns out that in some areas, especially in the field of online commerce, total harmonisation is required, while in other areas national rules are open and some countries are allowed to regulate the time limits for complaints in several areas. What is important here is the impact this will have on Norway. I have no doubt that the government and perhaps the parties representing Norway and working with other parliamentarians have done their job on the part of Norway to bring our views into the EU. However, I am concerned and also afraid of the outcome of this and hope that perhaps the Council of State might say a little about what the consequences will be for Norway if, in the worst case, there is a total harmonisation, what measures the Norwegian Government has then planned to put in place, and what consequences this will have for the Norwegian consumer. The question is whether we should start making demands on this directive, whether it is too late, and whether we can make reservations in some areas. However, at the end of the month it seems that a total harmonisation is adopted, and I am afraid that this is going to go against the Norwegian consumer. We have to look at the consequences of this, and what the government will do. In any case, we must come back to the Storting with a statement as soon as possible on the consequences of the directive that may be adopted in the EU in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1168	Norway considers itself to be one of the best in the class of consumer protection. It is probably precisely because the Consumer Rights Directive has created a debate and that the Directive has created uncertainty about the future of Norwegian consumers' rights. The starting point of the Directive was the total harmonisation of consumer rights in the EU and in the EEA territory where no country should be able to go further in order to protect its consumers than was provided for in the Directive. For Norwegian consumers, it was in particular about five years’ warranty for goods such as refrigerators, TVs and washing machines that contracts entered into during telephone sales would be valid only if the consumer has given written consent and the possibility of maintaining the high level of protection against unfair contractual terms. These are important rights that are built over time, and that it's important that we fight to keep. It is reassuring to see that there has been a great commitment from the Norwegian authorities in this matter, both from the government and not least from the consumer authorities. The work also seems to have borne fruits. The Directive may be amended on several points which will benefit consumers. One of the changes that have come about is that the Commission has moved from an overall harmonisation objective to a possible consideration of progress in some areas to go beyond what the Directive initially proposed. It is good that the Council of State announces that they will follow this development further, and that the Norwegian authorities will follow up the matter if new things happen. This case is a good example of the fact that the government and Norwegian authorities care for important national interests for us as consumers, but also as citizens, towards an EU that is too unilaterally based on free competition and market logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1181	Consumer rights are important for Norway and Norwegian consumers. There has long been a political focus on ensuring these in the best possible way. Therefore, there is an important matter that the interpellant addresses today. A fundamental consideration of Norwegian consumer law is that the consumer should have improved rights in a contractual relationship, since he is considered to be the weak party in contact with professional and commercial operators. The consumer rights are therefore initially mandatory and go across the freedom of contract in Norwegian law. The aim is to provide consumers with special protection by preventing the conclusion of contracts which make the consumer worse than under the law. Such rules are absolutely essential. The international financial crisis has confirmed that the market cannot control itself. Political governance through regulations that can prevent crisis and that can ensure trust, democratic transparency and consumer interests is necessary. Today, more and more cross-border trade is taking place. It is therefore in itself positive that the EU makes rules that ensure consumer rights to a greater extent, both in several countries and in several transactions between countries. The proposal for a Consumer Rights Directive is intended to replace four existing consumer protection directives, all of which have been transposed into Norwegian law. These are minimally harmonised so that Member States can provide more consumer protection rules. The new proposal involves total harmonisation, i.e.: the absence of national divergent rules. The Commission's justification for the proposal is that different legislation in the countries creates barriers to the internal market and that this is to the detriment of consumers and businesses. The main objective of the Consumer Rights Directive is thus to facilitate increased cross-border trade and the smooth functioning of the internal market in Europe by increasing consumer confidence, an internal market of which Norway is part. This objective shall be achieved through less fragmentation, stricter legislation and by providing consumers with a high common level of protection and information on their rights and their exercise. All of this is good, but Norway and some Member States have opted for better protection for their consumers after today's regime than under today's minimum directives. The European Commission's proposal for a new, fully harmonised consumer directive provided that the minimum requirements of today are to be the mandatory standard. This would mean that a directive that was intended to strengthen consumer rights would in reality be counterproductive, namely to weaken the rights of Norwegian consumers. If the new maximum directive is adopted, it will, for example: does not allow the Norwegian legislator to grant an extended period of protection in addition to the new standard. This means that the absolute guarantee period is set at two years for all product types, regardless of the expected duration. This would be a major regulatory change that could have a major impact on Norwegian consumer rights. That's not a desirable situation. Therefore, the government's efforts to influence the directive to allow Norwegian rules to continue are essential. However, this is not just controversial in Norway. The proposal for a Directive on total harmonisation has met strong resistance from large parts of Europe. The background is that the Directive weakens important consumer rights for many countries. This resistance has now clearly produced results. There are happy news from the Council of State, which in its reply now signals that Member States may appear to be in favour of harmonising only some rules instead of total harmonisation, which has so far been on the table. An amended Directive, in line with what the Council of State signals, will be very limited compared with the Commission’s original proposal. It will have a significantly smaller scope and the impact on Norwegian legislation will be less. Whether you choose such a solution or a solution with minimum harmonisation, it is essential that we have a solution that unites the best of both worlds, that we both increase the level of and guarantee consumer rights in Europe collectively, while not undermining the rights already acquired in some countries, such as the United States. Norway. I am confident that the government here will continue its efforts and defence of Norwegian views, and hope that this matter will finally come to an end. Norway has also expressed Norwegian views through the EFTA/EEA cooperation with Iceland and Liechtenstein, and the matter has also been raised in the EFTA/EEA Parliamentary Committee, including the EFTA/EEA Committee. of the interpellant. I would also like to highlight the inter-pellant and the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Committee on the Impact of the work they have done with our colleagues in the Committee of the European Parliament. We now have the Stortinget office in Brussels, which can also help us to influence matters. This is another example of a debate in which Norwegian parliamentarians should have been allowed to participate as part of the European Community – as an active member. Until that is a reality, it is good that the government has put full pressure on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1211	First, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. According to my intention, the debate is a little bit two-sided with the interpellation. The first is the challenges of the new Consumer Directive, and the second is how we, as parliamentarians, can be involved in influencing processes in progress in Europe. I feel that I have both confirmed that consumer policy is a policy area for which there is a cross-political consensus here in the Storting. At the same time, I have been confirmed that it is important that we, as big-scale politicians, participate in the political arenas where we can have an impact. I think that's important. And does this debate manage to be a start to such a process that tells both us and others that it benefits to influence, that it benefits to do a job, and that it benefits to have an involvement, I feel that this debate has been good and maybe also can be a starting point for us to have influence in the EU, even if we are a little bit on the go. But we make decision-makers if we want to do that, so in that way I am very grateful for the views that have emerged in the debate here. We see that we can participate and influence, and not least that we are united in protecting our consumer rights that have been acquired through political participation. Again, thank you for your participation and your commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1220	I also thank you for the debate and take it as evidence and evidence that it has actually been possible to influence a process, even before the EU system itself has made its decisions. Because, as I explained in my main post, quite a number of changes have taken place now before the Council of Ministers will take a decision at the end of January. I know that there are a number of amendments, so before we have the case also through the European Parliament, it seems that there will be a completely different type of case coming out than the one the Commission originally proposed. At least there will be no total harmonisation in the way that was initially proposed, and I am of course very pleased that this has been broken down, and that the search for consumer protection and consumer rights have now been put into practice in this case. There are many reasons why a market is not working. In this internal market, in which Norway is also part of the EEA Agreement and of which the EFTA country is part, language, cultural differences, lack of advice, costs of delivery, distance and lack of knowledge of systems and legislation in the different countries of origin may be involved. The lack of demand from consumers may also be a reason for the small cross-border supply of goods. What is likely to stand up here is a possible positive effect of having common legislation on consumer protection and consumer rights, against having a well-functioning internal market. I will not leave any doubt that the government believes that the possible positive effect of a common regulation will not be great enough to compensate for the disadvantages that reduced consumer protection will bring to the consumer. It will be our important task in the future, together with policymakers through their political channels, to continue to influence the process and to ensure that what was negative about the original proposal is minimised, so that we remain strong here in the country on consumer protection and on the clear view that consumers are entitled to know and demand information – that consumers have clear rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1230	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-13.ana.ud1737e1243	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
