ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e26	Representatives Sverre Myrli, Trond Helleland, Kåre Simensen, Thomas Breen, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Torstein Rudihagen, Solveig Horne, Øyvind Waksdal, Åge Starheim, Tor Bremer, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Snorre Serigstad Valen and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Sylvi Graham on sick leave from 9 March until further notice from the representative of Trine Skei Grande on leave from 9 March until 12 March to take part in a seminar on several elected women in Ottawa following the invitation of the Norwegian Embassy in Ottawa. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Hairy Rivers from 9 March until further notice. For Oslo: Ola Elvestuen from 9 March to 11 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e104	Harek Riveres and Ola Elvestuen are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 4 March 2011: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 4 March 2011 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 determined: State Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen shall be given, on application, by way of grace, with effect from Friday 4 March 2011 at 1 p.m. 14.15. Parliamentary representative Ola Borten Moe is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from Friday, 4 March 2011 at 2.30 p.m. 14.15 administered by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Sigrid Hjørnegård will be granted, on application, by grace of the State Secretary of State of Terje Riis-Johansen from Friday, 4 March 2011 at 2.30 p.m. 14.15. Per Rune Henriksen will be appointed Secretary of State Terje Riis-Johansen on application for renunciation from office as Secretary of State Ola Borten Moe on Friday, 4 March 2011 at 2.30 p.m. 14.15.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e119	The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Council of State changes the composition of the Storting as follows: The first representative of the South Trondelag County, Heidi Greni, takes the seat as a representative of the time the representative Ola Borten Moe is a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e134	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e137	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to conduct an additional examination in the Norwegian and English subjects to prevent abduction and to ensure that more people are able to take study skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e142	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e145	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Oskar J. Grimstad and myself, I propose to introduce a flexible fuel charging system, as well as to reduce fuel charges by 2 kroner from 1 May 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e151	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, we present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e154	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Dahl, Øyvind Halleraker, Arve Kambe and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the non-discrimination of ship tunnels and other infrastructure in the VAT legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e159	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e263	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Erik Solheim, Anniken Huitfeldt and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e272	The Minister for the Environment invited a camel lunch at home in his apartment just a week ago. He was to report information on a new postponement at Mongstad. The breakfast guests are not as used to eating camels as the state council itself, and they immediately protested both on menu and content, as opposed to SV, which now defends postponement where only five years ago they considered going out of government in view of whether the project was realised. The postponement did not come as a surprise at the Progress Party. We have long warned against the belief that one can adopt technology development. But the government still chose to demand cleaning at Mongstad by 2014. Yes, the cleaning was even to be carried out regardless of whether the test facility had been completed and one had gained experience from it. Now, fortunately, the government has changed its policy. The test facility has a central role to play. We've got a better technology project and, to a lesser extent, a symbol project. But the postponement should have consequences. When not taking an investment decision before 2016, it means that a full-scale sewage treatment plant in Mongstad will be in place by 2020 at the earliest. This means that other operators who are required to clean up will have a sewage treatment plant in place in 2024 at the earliest with the government's progress, because no one will start building a separate sewage treatment plant before they see if Mongstad is working. The requirement to clean up CO2 then stops important industrial activity in Norway. In central Norway there are several projects. But one of the last to get on the track is Alcoa, who wants to build a large aluminium mill in Finnmark. The installation must be almost identical to that built by Hydro in Qatar, with an investment of 15 billion. kr and 500 jobs, and it shall be operated on snow-white gas. So far, the government has said that this plant must have cleaning from the start. This means, therefore, that the policy of the government will not be implemented in Norway. But the same gas can be burned in France, Sweden or anywhere without cleaning. Will the State Council look at its own CO2 policy and allow the use of gas in Norway where the net global emissions are not increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e291	This breakfast at my home has been one of the better-covered frogs in modern times in Norway. As Solvik-Olsen – probably through the media – has received full transparency, camels were not served, but balls were served to the members of the environmental movement. One of the strangest critics I've been exposed to is the criticism that I have a dialogue with the environmental movement prior to an important decision. I'd think the Stortinge appreciated that you have. We have dialogue with the business community in advance of important business decisions, and we are in contact with the trade union movement when important decisions concern them. Having dialogue with and investigating issues with the environmental movement prior to an important decision is something I don't think is just right to do, I would say it's an obligation to do. It's for a government not to sit in its ivory tower and know what's right, but to go out and seek the advice of others. Then I believe that the Progress Party should also occasionally raise its eyes. According to the International Energy Agency and a number of other institutions, carbon capture and storage is perhaps the most crucial technology if we are to succeed in achieving the goal of not raising the temperature of the earth by 2 degrees. It's fundamentally important to get it done. But as Solvik-Olsen also says, it's incredibly difficult to do it. As Schirvengen once said at a Progress Party meeting – The Progress Party has not followed up so much since: The future is being created – it is not adopted. What we've done in this context is, of course, to go out wide in addition to Mongstad, in parallel to doing what we can to make Mongstad succeed – not in 2016, but as quickly as possible, preferably with an investment decision earlier. Gassnova will now look at all the other technologies presented and see if there are opportunities there for faster propulsion. It should be satisfactory for the Progress Party to see that we also get an assessment of Fräna, Alcoa and all the other projects that are being presented, and see if they can also have opportunities in themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e302	I don't want to decide if the state council serves cinnamon balls or camel balls. However, it is a fact that the policy pursued, which requires zero emissions from all new gas sources in Norway, does not result in investments being carried out in Norway but is being moved abroad. I haven't challenged the government at the test center in Mongstad. The Progress Party itself has arranged for a full-scale clean-up to be moved to other places if it can speed up the project. That is not what the debate is going on. The debate is going on: When the government has committed itself to zero tolerance for new CO2 emissions – a technology requirement that cannot be met today and not in the long run on the basis of the government’s own policy – it would not make sense to ensure that industrial investments that will take place in the world anyway can also be allowed to take place in Norway, so that we get that capital, the jobs, the value creation and the strengthening of the industrial cluster that will further develop new technologies for the future, instead of saying that Snow White gas must be exported out of the country together with capital and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e312	As Solvik-Olsen very well knows, the government's climate policy is based on the climate agreement. There were six of the Biggest parties behind it – all except the Advance Party. In that climate agreement, there is a limit on how much emissions we are going to have in 2020. It's formulated in different ways, but it's a roof, and it's a roof that's hard to get to the present situation. Then it becomes problematic that the only progressing party is constantly producing projects that will generate new emissions, without at the same time making any suggestions on how to reduce drastic emissions in other areas. If we were to allow increased emissions, for example: from industry, we would have to reduce correspondingly on trade or on oil or on energy use in construction or on any of the other sources of emissions. We cannot just focus on a policy that will increase emissions in all areas. Since when we do not have the climate agreement, and Norway does not at all contribute to the great international effort it is to reduce the risk of global warming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e319	Four follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Oskar J. Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e322	In November 2006, we saw that the Minister for Oil and Energy, Mr Enoxen, made an energy analysis for Middle Norway, where all known measures would be put in place to address the need, including a gas power plant. Now we see that the Mongstad project is about to start – we will say – the World Cup fog and will hardly be realized until 2025. At the same time, we have a project in Møre and Romsdal, Industrikraft Møre, which, together with Siemens, is willing to launch a project of cleaning, even without public participation – with the no cure no pay agreement at the bottom. When we know that the option of public contributions is 20-25 billion. The Minister of Oil and Energy's statement from the Government already appears strange in 2006. The question then is: why not bet on the action represented by Industrikraft Møre and Siemens?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e331	The government is wide open to a gas power plant with cleaning on Fräna and other similar projects. It is among the themes that Gassnova is now going to consider – whether it is possible to achieve, whether the technology is mature, what it will cost, and whether large public contributions are needed. What we are not open to is what the Progress Party proposes, namely to increase emissions in all areas. If I understood correctly, the last thing we heard before this proposal for increased emissions in Møre and Romesdal was a proposal to reduce the price of petrol – and thus get more emissions from the road sector. The truth is that if we are to meet public and international commitments – and if the Progress Party is to cooperate with the Right, which says that they are on the climate agreement – then if you increase the emissions from Frenna or the emissions in Hammerfest, you have to reduce them elsewhere. One of the other areas in which they will have to be reduced is road traffic, but also where the Progress Party proposes increased emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e338	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e341	I have noticed that in the past there has been a discussion in the government about what gives the greatest greenhouse gas emissions of white or red meat. I don't know what camel meat is like in that context, but I'm going to assume that the camels that have been eaten lead to increased emissions. It is interesting to note that the Council of State is very concerned about the policy of the Progress Party to increase emissions. You can also notice that you now have a new Minister of Energy, who has set up gas power plants without cleaning – but it is a siding. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that the State must cover the cost of clearing CO2 in addition to the quota price at the stage we are currently in, where the technology is immature? And does he agree that that principle must apply to more places than Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e354	That's exactly what Gassnova wants to look at, what opportunities lie and what it might cost. What is obviously an impossibility is that we should deviate from the polluter-pays principle and send all bills for emission reductions to the state. We will have a difficult job to do when the climate report is submitted to Stortinget for the autumn. Then the Right contribution will also be very useful when it comes to looking at how we can bring down emissions in the different areas. However, measures that simply mean that the community is going to pay for emissions that some people serve on are an impossibility. So I just want to add a camel piss: so it's not eating a camel to go in to slow down the pace of an expansion in such a way that cancer is taken seriously. And that this would be a defeat for SV: no one was more eager than me to slow down the pace and take the cancer seriously. As big a trailer as I am of expanding carbon capture and storage facilities, I am equally sure that any government that does not take the cancer risk seriously for the people of Hordaland is making a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e361	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e364	Yes, the Council of State has the whole Storting in mind that the cancer in Mongstad is to be taken seriously. But when Clif writes in his hearing response that: ‘on the contrary, new knowledge is positive in that the risk of the formation and spread of nitrosamines is less than previously assumed’;» This is somewhat contrary to the signals that Statoil, an important owner of the government's lunar landing project, sends to the public. The responsibility of the Council of State is the emissions permit. It is stated in the message we received to Stortinget on Friday that the emission permit with modifications forms the basis of the process we are now involved in. We know that the 2006 emissions permit had years in it. What is the year of the emissions permit with the amendments mentioned in the Notice. St. 9, which came on Friday, in itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e376	Now the representative asked a number of questions. Let me come back to the last one in the ordinary Question Time, where the same questions are asked. With regard to the first, it is very pleasant and very important to hear that the opposition also says that cancer is so serious that there must be a basis for dealing with such a case. It would really have been a scandal – and I think the volume of the opposition would have doubled – if the government didn't take a cancer hazard very seriously. I would also say that if we do not take it seriously now, it will delay the project much further down. What Statoil and the Climate and Pollution Directorate say are basically the same. They said last fall that the cancer was significant. It was then connected to nitrosamines. After that, they've said that it's probably smaller, but they've concentrated on nitramines. I am sorry that this is going to be quite technical, but these are the professional concepts for this. Fortunately, the Climate and Pollution Directorate says – and that is a very good news – that the danger is not as great as it was thought last autumn. But the danger is not so small that we can ignore it, and on the basis of the precautionary principle, we must also take into account the small danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e385	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e388	Mongstad seems more and more like a scandal. Of course, it is important to take cancer seriously. At the same time, there's a fact, which also the previous questioner said, that Clif considers the danger to be less now than what they've done before. My simple question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State asked Clif whether they agree with and recommend a postponement of Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e393	The Climate and Pollution Directorate says that fortunately, cancer is less than it was last October. That's a very positive news. I think we should be happy for such news. It makes it more realistic to realize the project faster. If we can update these technologies faster, that also means that we can start earlier than 2016. 2016 is not a target, 2016 is the last date when such a decision can be made. It can be taken earlier if these technologies can be freshly notified in the past and that should be a good news. I'm a little surprised that you almost seem a little happy that it's hard to develop this technology. It's terribly difficult to develop the technology. Unfortunately, Mongstad is at the forefront – they are the world leader in this technology. That's why there's a lot of interest in this international. Many countries have large-scale projects on the drawing board, but they are not in the process of being realised – at least it takes time to realize these projects. We're struggling to get this amazingly crucial technology out of place. That should worry us all in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e400	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e403	My question goes – surprisingly – to State Councillor Erik Solheim, and it goes on the capture and storage of CO2. No one in this room has disagreed that it is important to take into account the health effects of clean-up technologies. Therefore, it is also not a relevant point to involve in this context from the Council of State. In order to refer to the previous response of the Council of State to me, I and the Right also agree with the Council of State that we should not print blank cheques from the state for all new cleaning projects. That's not the point either. That's what you've just done in Mongstad, where you've written a blank cheque for Statoil. What needs to be done is to limit the risks and responsibilities of taxpayers in new cleaning projects. At the same time, however, it must be acknowledged that there will be no clean-up of other projects unless the State also makes a contribution to new clean-up technology. The councils were quite categorical in the Questionnaire on 1 December 2010 when he was asked the same question, whether the state could contribute to cleaning elsewhere, and then specifically in Elnesvågen. Then the answer to that was no. Now he says Gassnova will evaluate it. What, then, is in this assessment? Is it in that assessment to contribute to the coverage of future clean-up projects? And we're not talking here about 25 billion. kr, as you do in Mongstad. Siemens has estimated and is willing to take the risk of a 2 billion. kr-cleansing project in Elnesvågen. Is the country willing to make a contribution in excess of the quota price, so that this is possible both there and perhaps elsewhere where relevant, and Alcoa was mentioned in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e417	Let me first say that it is very important and very happy that both the Christian People's Party and the Right now come up and so clearly give the feeling that health hazards must be the basis for any further development of Mongstad. The health hazard seems to be less than we thought last year. That's very good news. This means that there is a greater chance of having the project implemented in the past. But that we can't ignore health risks, I think we have a broad majority in the Biggest behind us. There were some statements in the media that could indicate something else. I just have to say that I have received letters from people in Lindås who are afraid, and I have to be able to answer them safely that emissions from a full-scale plant in Mongstad will not exceed any real health hazard. So the question of state contribution to technology, capture and storage projects elsewhere in Norway – Fränna, Hammerfest, Kårstø or where it might be. We have to get back to that. Gassnova is now going to go in and look at the new projects that are there – Kårstø is in a different category, but Fränna and Hammerfest and possibly others. It is reliable that there are large international companies that say they can do it, like Siemens or Korean Daewoo, in alliance with Norwegian actors. They're not companies where you can put aside the skills they have, they have great competence. But we have to look at everything in industrial contracts, usually in small print. Are they willing to take the real risk they're saying they're going to take? All these questions need to be considered carefully. Is technology mature enough? Is it likely that it can be implemented? And the government agency to evaluate this is Gassnova, and they'll get a job to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e424	I guess I didn't realize that it was particularly clarifying, because here we are referring to Gassnova making an assessment. But the question is what principles underpin that assessment. Is it true that you're willing to take the risk of investing in more projects than just Mongstad? After all, there has been a symbolic project that is now coming so far in time and at a cost and realized at a time when it is likely to become less topical and relevant to countries other than it could otherwise have been, especially in view of the fact that two EU countries are now required to take investment decisions on a full scale clean-up in the third quarter of 2011 based on amine technology. It might be worth reminding the council that it wasn't Apollo 1 that landed on the moon, but Apollo 11, and that it might be stupid to put all the eggs in one basket. But it assumes that the State is willing to contribute beyond the quota price, with clearly defined risks for taxpayers. Is the Council willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e432	I have to agree with the representative of Astrup that the answer was not very clarifying. But it was in this case intended, for a councillor to pre-clarify billions of payments from the state treasury is not common from the Storting's pulpit and requires a somewhat more thorough treatment than a spontaneous questioning hour. So I can't now clarify any willingness to contribute to this until we've seen all of Gassnova's image. Let me say that in this debate it is also important to remember that there is a real difference between Mongstad and part of the other projects. Most of the gas power and not least coal-fired power plants that have to be cleaned in order to achieve the two-degree target have already been built. We are almost sure that it is more difficult to clean already built plants than it is to integrate purification into a new one, such as this. is proposed on Fränna. In any case, we're going to need both parts, but it's a completely independent justification for Mongstad relating to the cleaning of already built facilities, which is the biggest and most difficult challenge we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e439	Four follow-up questions will be raised with a view to clarifying answers – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e442	The right is very pleased with the decision the government has made in Mongstad to look at other technologies, possibly outside Mongstad. So we want to welcome the government to that question. We're a little bit more doubtful about Solheim's commitment to get this done. Then I will return to this breakfast. Not that I'm going to interfere in the menu of camels or balls, but I noticed that the Council of State said that he had invited me to lunch to have a dialogue with the environmental movement before an important decision was to be made. There is hardly anyone who might disagree with such a reasoning, but the point is that this breakfast was about mid-pointed that this message was presented. So saying that this was a dialogue prior to an important decision, I might seem to be stretching it a little bit. I would like to hear the State Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e449	It is good to hear that there is no disagreement that this is a sensible form, because the President of the Right has written a letter to the Prime Minister protesting against this form, i.e. that there is a dialogue with the environmental movement prior to such decisions. I think after the very tight search light the media has had on the decision-making process, that all the features in it have been clarified. It was planned to send a big message in connection with Terje Riis-Johansen's departure that Friday. But as everyone knows, one week gives you a sea of time to correct the course, make changes and get opinions. That's what was meant here. It was five days from the meeting until this was to be presented, and it would provide a good opportunity to correct the course on important points along with people with great competence in carbon capture and storage. Frederic Hauge, for example. clearly among the people in Norway with the highest level of knowledge and competence in this area. It's clear it won't get any easier when it goes straight to the media, including the menu.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e454	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e457	I would like to remind the Council of State that there is actually a record of what is happening at Stortinget. These reports show that the Storting does not have any international obligations under the Kyoto agreement. So climate change is a national, self-imposed commitment, which we can change without any other country having anything to say. I would also like to remind you that the Council of State was in Dagsnytt 18 on 11 February 2009. Then we discussed Mongstad for 25 billion. kr. Then the government declared that project in advance. To be able to pre-clarify a project for 2.5 billion. kr should be simpler. So the council says it's good that the opposition has now taken the cancer seriously. It's historyless. If he goes in and looks at the minutes from the big debate in May 2009, when the test centre at Mongstad was debated, he will see that the opposition took up the cancer hazard and challenged the government on it. But no one in the government cared about answering that. So it's the government that's not related to the cancer, not the opposition. The question is nevertheless: Global emissions from Norwegian gas use – are they increasing or decreasing if Norwegian gas is used in Norway rather than abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e466	Here, Solvik-Olsen says a very dangerous thing that I have to deal with. He says Norway has no international obligations in this area. That is a very serious point, because the Party of Advancement can come to government. It is then absolutely crucial whether the Progress Party is committed to the commitments that Norway – not me, but Norway – has submitted on behalf of enlargement and government. So we have signed up to the International Copenhagen Agreement and we have signed up in connection with the Cancún Conference. We have reported in a series of ways Norwegian, national and international clean-up obligations for CO2 emissions. If the Progress Party in a future government position does not stand by them, it is, first of all, a breach of a long practice in Norway that a government is under commitments entered into by previous governments and past accumulations. Of course, it is also completely undermining Norwegian climate change, and in addition, it is contrary to what the Right says they should do – namely stand firm on the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e474	The Kyoto Agreement expires in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e479	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e482	Yes, it is true that the Stortinget does not receive so many billions of pre-declared investments from this pulpit. They'll probably be in the New Year's. That's where we usually hear about them. I just have to arrest the Council of State for one thing about this with cancer risk. It was signed that in 2009 wrote the comments on cancer, and I got a joint committee, and there's been a big deal about this. We've had this discussion before, and now I think we're about to leave it. My question to the Council of State, which is currently up to date, is: When it comes to this lunch meeting for a week and a half, the Council of State said that meetings are held to be recorded, but also to be corrected. What was the correction in the main message that came five days later, which is a sea of time in the government's use of words?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e489	Let me first say about the cancer risk that it is right that this question has been raised in the Stortinget, not least by the representative of the Christian People's Party, in the past. It's also true that I've answered this question in Stortinget on many occasions in the past, and I've said the same every time, that it's totally inappropriate to expose the people of Hordaland to some risk that is above what is acceptable, for the sake of an important international project. We simply can't say that this is so important for Norway and the world that we ignore the people of Hordaland. So it's been a constant line from both the Storting and the Government. On the other hand, there have been some statements in the last few days that suggested minimizing the cancer rather than taking it seriously and investigating it carefully. With regard to what was said at the meeting with the environmental organisations, it is in the nature of the case with regard to investigations that we have all the time with trade unions, with environmental organisations, with business operators and with companies, that the government does not go out and publish what is said at these meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e497	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e500	In the left we do not at all enjoy the delays and increases in costs that are in Mongstad. I have to say that there is hardly any project that you can imagine can be handled worse and at more cost than the government has managed Mongstad. We believe, on the contrary, that when you go for a postponement, the basis for that postponement appears to be very thin. I asked earlier if Kleif has recommended a postponement, and I felt that I did not receive a response. Then I wonder: If Clif has not recommended a postponement, what professional basis – what professional body – is the government based on? Is it anything at all, or is it just a wish and a recommendation from Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e507	The Climate and Pollution Directorate has been asked on two occasions to ensure the quality of the information provided by Statoil. It was last autumn, and it was in connection with the new letter that Statoil has now written. In both cases, the Climate and Pollution Directorate has largely confirmed what has come from Statoil. It was more dramatic last fall. Fortunately, there is something more optimistic now. Nothing is better than that. But in both cases, the Climate and Pollution Directorate has said that there is a cancer risk that needs to be investigated further. On the basis that our professional body says that there is such a cancer risk – yes, fortunately we think it is very small, we think we have to deal with it – every government has to take it into account. It is not the task of the Climate and Pollution Directorate to recommend what to do. It is up to them to decide on the professional question – whether there is a cancer risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e514	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e517	My question goes to the Minister for Coast and Fisheries. In recent years, the breeding industry has been affected by major escape accidents and repeated cases of salmontus. The Christian People's Party believes that it is now time for something to be done to ensure the reputation of the farming industry and the opportunities for sustainable and profitable production, while preserving the wild and sea trout in Norway. Salmon farming is a high-growth industry. In the first half of 2010, the export value of salmon was 13.9 billion. kr – an increase of 31 pst. compared to the previous year. Therefore, the breeding industry can afford to be imposed on measures that are necessary to ensure an environmentally friendly industry built on renewable resources and that can contribute to coastal value creation in Norway for many years to come. Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that the farming industry is world-leading in the environment. However, this requires long-term structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry. This will ensure the reputation of the farming industry and the possibility of sustainable and profitable production. A measure may, for example: be to control and impose requirements on industry in the same way as the Directorate for Climate Change and Pollution does on land-based industry. 175000 salmon recently escaped from a breeding plant on Hitra in the south of Trøndelag, which poses a major threat to the wild species. It's the largest salmon discharge in the trombone layer ever. Can the Council of State tell how many accidents must occur before the government finds it necessary to make structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e532	The first thing I want to do is clarify who's responsible for what. The industry itself is responsible for ensuring the reputation of the industry. We are going to contribute to a regulation that is primarily to ensure that salmon are in the mermaid and not outside. We do that with technical requirements related to equipment, moorings and that kind of thing. That was why I recently sent to the hearing proposals for even more stringent requirements both for equipment, for installations, for location, and for behaviour, for example. we now propose that there be a certified body to approve both the location and the use and the equipment. Furthermore, we also demand that the salmon be in the mermaid and not outside. We demand that in the event of accidents, companies have an obligation to recover – this can be extended. After all, the escape that was in Trøndelag, we are all deeply sorry. Now I registered that the Fisheries Directorate, which has gone through the case after an inspection of the site, has reported it to the police. We're going to continue to make demands. We have the goal of zero escape, and it's being controlled. We step up our efforts on controls, to make sure that the companies actually follow the requirements we make to prevent escape. We will continue to do that, and I think that is the way we can contribute to a sustainable and profitable farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e543	I thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, Christian People's Party shares Clif's concern. One fear, then, is that farm emissions will give fish empty and lifeless fjords. A recent report presented indicates that fish farming emissions are record high. We now have larger breeding units and more exposed sites than ever. We therefore need new knowledge, improved technology and more robust operations to meet the challenges of the farming industry. Is this not serious enough for the Council of State to find it necessary to take new concrete measures and to put power behind fine words and visions in the government's own sustainability strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e550	Firstly, with regard to fish farming emissions, the sustainability strategy looks at the challenges associated with this. I think most people agree that, in the large picture, there are relatively small challenges related to emissions from farming facilities, but that local areas can be present. That was probably also the picture we got after the Land Selection submitted its report. Then it's perfectly obvious, as the representative points out, that there may be a conflict between using the best sites to prevent emissions challenges. They are laid further off the coast, more exposed, in terms of electricity. Of course, it can affect the risk of escape, because you're in areas that are more exposed. And that's why we have to make stricter demands on equipment, on moorings, so that they can withstand the loads they are then subjected to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e557	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e560	Recently, as mentioned, 175,000 salmon now swimming off the coast of Trondelag and disturbing the ecosystem there. It gets clearer and clearer for every month that goes, that the farming industry has to renew and evolve to have a sustainable future. So there are environments, companies, that want to develop the industry further. There are research environments that want to take new steps forward. But it seems very unclear what kind of strategy the government has, and what kind of standard government has for those who are going to develop the next generation of breeding. So we have to ask the question again, when are the new generations of breeding and new technology to be introduced to the industry? Does the Minister for Fisheries have any time for the industry to solve the problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e565	To the question of how many fish are now swimming outside the Trendelag, I think we should be careful to say for sure what the outcome and what the consequences of that escape will be. We've had other accidents along the coast further south, with ships and oil spills, and I've recorded that the Marine Research Institute has been out saying we're lucky because this escape after all happened in the winter. Research shows that the salmon that escapes winter time has little chance of survival, so I hope at last that not all the 175 000 swim very long at least, but that they retire at death, as the scientists suggest. As for the new development of technology, the next generation of breeding, I'm very concerned that we have to make demands, so it's going to be up to the research communities and the industry to find the solutions. I think politicians should be very careful about what kind of technology is forward-looking. Then I think we'll intercept important knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e573	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e576	The government has previously tried to decide what kind of technology to use, and we've seen how it's been. My question is a follow-up to the main question asked by Andersen Eide. The Committee was at the Institute of Marine Research as late as Monday. There it was simply shown that there are historically lower escape rates now than it was in the past, i.e. That you've got the escape numbers down. Then one unfortunately got this situation on Hitra, but luckily it was big fish and it happened in the winter, that is. that the likelihood of a large rise in rivers is, in fact, small. I've previously challenged the Council of State in an area. It is clear that we have to do everything we can to prevent this type of escape, which is likely to happen in connection with the fact that there is a well boat until the mermaid or other. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council look at the possibility of introducing requirements for camera surveillance of this type of operation, when wellboats are at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e585	The representative of Nesvik is quite right in saying that, compared with the growth of the farming industry, the numbers of escapes have fallen – and we should be pleased about that. But we still have to focus on reducing the escapes, preferably to zero. At the same time, as the representative of Nesvik points out, most of the escapes actually occur in the context of activity and handling. It tells me at least one thing, and it's that what's between the ears of the actors, it's all, the most important thing. The idea of an escape insurance from coming to work in the morning – from smoking to middle management, to the general manager and owner – is what will give the most results here. So I'm definitely going to look at new ways to make demands to prevent escape. Then it may be that camera surveillance is the answer. There's a lot of cameras in the nuts already, so if you could use what's up, you'd get a good look at the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e592	Frank Bakke-Jensen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e595	In the rather well-known process of awarding new concessions, later on, it has been shown that there has been a little bit of agreement with the possibility of making environmental requirements visible as one of the factors for allocations. By being unclear as to the role of the different levels of management in the allocation process, we were shifted from overall environmental requirements to an appeal process where there is now considerable uncertainty as to what kind of criteria were at all the basis of the allocation. My question to the Council of State will be: What action will it take to ensure that adopted environmental requirements and the wish for a clear environmental profile to be maintained in future allocation processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e602	As I've said in this room earlier on repeated occasions, it's not the award of new concessions I'm most focused on right now. I have clearly stated that the industry's job is now to clean up and reduce the lice problems, which is the main reason why we do not carry out the growth in the industry that was planned. So I'm going to be honest to say that I don't think very much about granting new concessions. Of course, concessions granted during the 2009 round and any future allocations must meet exactly the same requirements as existing installations. We need a regulatory framework and a framework with strict requirements that reduces the risk of escape as far as possible. But again, we're totally dependent on the actors seeing the same seriousness as both the government and this hall. I think that'll be the most important contribution to reducing escape.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e609	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e612	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The closure of the FM radio network worries the Progress Party, it worries ICT Norway, it worries the users of the FM network. The Progress Party understands the need for digital development and that digital development has come to be. Better and more channels, better radio coverage for listeners – all this is positive. But are you satisfied in Norway to close the FM network at the same time? Sales of DAB radios show you're not. An EU report also states that the closure of the FM network is not good as the government has decided. You've got to scrape 15 to 20 million. FM radios – mobile radios, radios on the cabin – even scrap new DAB radios that people have bought, which are not DAB+. It will have major consequences for users. This will have major consequences for the environment. This will cost billions of dollars for consumers. Lefdal cheers. Electric buy cheers. But consumers are not cheering. The question is, what will this cost? We know how much it will cost consumers. But how much will it cost the state? What will it cost the Norwegian community? What about raising your eyes and looking at England? That's where you've exposed this. You don't want to shut down. The aim is to continue in parallel with digital development and the FM network. My question is, what will this cost the state? What will it cost, and who will take the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e621	It is very clear in the big message that is about to be dealt with here, that this is supposed to be a driving force. It's not supposed to cost the taxpayers anything. It's typical the Progress Party to spread fear of things that are really very well explained. It's said to be between 15 and 20 million. radios in Norwegian homes. That means there are nine radios per home. That doesn't match the numbers I have. On the contrary, I have numbers that show that it's between 3.5 and 7 million. radios in Norwegian homes. These must not be cast by the Norwegian people. On the contrary, you can buy small adapters that allow you to hear digital radios on your old radio. It will also be possible in the car. For me, it is important that those who drive a car get better radio conditions. I'm sure there's a lot of people with me in line for Oslo this morning. Then it's important that we have stable and good radio broadcasts. It is also important to me that radio services throughout the country are as good as in Oslo and Akershus. In many places in Norway, there are three to four nationwide channels, as well as the local radio, which transmits on one local transmitter. If we're going to get the radio channels to invest in the digital network, we're going to have to say that it's going to be an off date. Double distribution is the most expensive of all. It gives fewer channels. It's like ordering plate manufacturers to send cassettes and CDs in parallel. It's expensive. When we published this, P4 said they were interested in creating several nationwide channels, so this is what ensures diversity. We have a system today where it's the Media Authority that distributes concessions. FM transmitters do not have the ability to broadcast so many radio channels throughout Norway. But now it's getting a lot freer. There will be much more competition, and there will be a much better offer to the listeners. It's a bit typical of the Progress Party to spread fear of something that's going to be better for the Norwegian people. It went well when we got a digital background on TV. This is going to go very well, and we're notifying five years in advance that we get digital radios as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e632	The party of progress is not the only ones who look at this with a little bit of concern. ICT Norway does, and the rest of the world, which has no closing date. So the council says it's just buying an adapter. You can connect an adapter where your iPhone is going to be connected to the radio. That means new – today’s – radios, not the one we have on the cabin, the one we have in the basement room, on the night table, on the kitchen or on old mobile radios. An adapter costs NOK 1200, i.e. more than today's FM radio. This is going to be a lot of expense, and I think it's a shame that the Council of State doesn't take this in, but it's going to be the world champion shutting down the FM network. Developing the digital network I think is very positive, because then we get more radio channels, we get better offers, but for God's sake don't close the FM network, with the big consequences it has. You can’t listen to DAB radio in the car if you’re going to Stroemstad or the rest of the EU. So what do you do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e639	The President must remember that it is not in line with parliamentary vocabulary to call on higher powers, at least not the higher powers mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e643	If only Norway had done this, and the whole world didn't, this would have been a bit strange. But that's not the situation. The EU Commissioner responsible for the digital agenda has stated that radio must be at the forefront of the digital revolution, highlighting DAB’s advantage as an open standard. It's not right, as the representative says, that you don't do this in other countries. So now Germany – after its collection – gets its first nationwide radio. It must be sent on DAB to all Germans. It provides a much better radio offer in Germany. The reason why we have to be a little ahead of Norway is that we have a long-term country. It is clear that double distribution in a small country such as Denmark is much cheaper than in Norway. I want a good radio offer all over Norway, and then it's setting requirements and having an exit date for the FM network the most important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e648	There will be follow-up questions – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e651	I have to say that I am concerned about the arrogant attitude of the Council of State in this matter – accusing the Party of Advancement of spreading fear. What the government is doing now is exactly what the other countries are doing. Sweden saw what the cost was and shrunk the entire project. The EU chooses completely different solutions from those of Norway. The Council of State is standing here and saying it should be an actor's boss. Yes, but that's exactly what it will be, because consumers now have to buy adapters and new equipment to make this work. And it actually costs over $1,000 per radio. What is happening now is that the costs are passed on to the consumer. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council not understand the concern that consumers have when the government proposes to close down the entire FM network?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e660	Time is a discussion in a lot of countries. It is in Sweden, it is in the United Kingdom, and it is in Germany – and it has also been in Norway. That's why we're saying that we're planning to close the FM network in 2017. We'll let the Norwegian people know, so they don't buy old radios, but they buy radios where you can hear both on FM and on DAB. It's a good message of good time in advance. And then we've also said that we're open to postponing this if some of the criteria are not in place, like this. that half of the Norwegian people are not listening to DAB radio. There is, of course, no debate in Europe on whether or not to introduce DAB. What is the discussion is the time. Then we said 2017, with the possibility of a prolongation until 2019. It is not wrong that Norway is in the forefront in this area. This is not going to cost NOK 1000 per radio. When we are early out, the prices are going to go down, and we get better radio listening both in the car and at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e667	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e670	I feel that the message presented just describes a policy in advance. An important perspective is how we can communicate mediaically in the Nordic region, and maybe in Scandinavia. The Council of State itself referred to the car radio as a priority for digital purposes. I think the Progress Party's approach describes the need to show the usefulness of this. Wouldn't it have been great if we could get in the car, put on the car radio, and then we could listen to it, I kept saying, the button we had turned on all the way to Copenhagen? If we had found a common technological solution – that is not the solution, but it is a common technological strategy with Sweden and Denmark, and perhaps with the other Nordic countries as well – it would open up very exciting spaces for programme production and media development both in the private sector and in the general broadcasting sector. Could the Council of State envisage taking initiatives towards the other Nordic countries to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e677	This is a very good idea. It is precisely opening up to more extensive Nordic cooperation. We can have common Nordic radio channels – with niche channels that perhaps a few are busy with, providing a much larger listening base. This is, of course, a basis for diversity. Bringing us closer together in the Nordic region within digital technology is absolutely an opportunity. I want to look at the possibility of taking an initiative towards my Nordic colleagues in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e682	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e685	Thank you for the opportunity to bring the Council of State into an even more conflict-filled area than Mongstad, Burma. Last week I visited Burma and was a guest with the male people. What I saw has been regularly reported in international media, unfortunately a little less in Norwegian media. The situation there is that there is 1 million internally displaced, and there are only 135,000 male refugees living in refugee camps in Thailand. I saw burnt villages, it was ruined crops, and in very many of the ethnic areas, the real war zones with acts of war are almost every day. Burma – and the junta that controls Burma – uses 25 pst. or more of the military budget. It's a military upgrade almost unparalleled when you look at percentages. This is possible because there is a trade and an exchange of natural resources that does not benefit the population, but rather the junta and the trading partners, such as China, India and Thailand. What has been used in recent months has been the choice, as a shell cover for both trading partners and junta to hide what is really going on. Now 30 state councils are nominees public, 26 of them are former generals or former ministers. This option only means several generals in several positions, unfortunately. I want to ask the Council of State what is the government's strategy in concrete terms, and in what areas does the government challenge the junta specifically in terms of democracy and respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e694	The President has reason to believe that the question was to the Council of State Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e697	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e703	Then the State Council of Solheim will have the opportunity to respond – be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e706	Let me start by saying that there is absolutely no disagreement between Peter Skovholt Gitmark and me about the situation description in Burma, or Myanmar. The country is a brutal military dictatorship. There is no parallel on the planet – a country where the military controls everything. The Communist dictatorship likes to govern the party, and in right-wing dictatorships, business tends to be a major factor. But a totally military-run country, like Burma, is quite special. That there are major and brutal abuses, especially in the ethnic areas, there is no doubt about it. What the government is doing, of course, is having a close dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi. As the representative noticed, she thanked Norway as soon as she was free. We meet the opposition movement when exile government is in Norway, and we've met them when we've been visiting Burma. In addition, we believe that it is useful to have dialogue with the military regime in order to be able to raise all these concerns. Not that we believe that in itself it will be crucial, but it is a small contribution in a large context. Then I would also like to highlight – because it is an important strategic issue – that we should ask ourselves what works in the long run. Now we've had Egypt and Tunisia as two examples of governance where, at least so far, positive democratic development has been seen. What has been fundamental in both countries is that the army at last, at last, decided not to shoot, not to massacre people, not to stand up for the military leaders, but to accept democratic change. And I think that very long experience shows – from Indonesia, now from Egypt and Tunisia and many other places – that helping to create a broad middle class in a country, having economic contact, that it's foreign investment, that it's economic and social progress even under conditions that are very oppressive, in the long run, they create the classes and the social movements that undermine regimes. So isolating Burma and not having financial contact with them would be contrary to what the representative and I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e713	Symbols mean a lot. Aung San Suu Kyi is an idol and a symbol of the entire movement of democracy. The democratic movement was split before the elections. Juntaen imposed restrictions on Aung San Suu Kyi's own party when it was about being allowed to remain silent, or allowed so many restrictions that they chose not to remain silent themselves, and one got a split of it. Having contact with all parts of the movement of democracy is extremely important. The Council of State itself is a symbol, in the sense that on his travels he represents official Norway. On the first visit of the Council of State to Burma, the Council of State did not choose to meet representatives of the movement of democracy. Does the Council of State take self-criticism on it, in the light of his first answer, and in the light of many other answers from him on previous occasions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e718	I think I want to go in and check the program for that visit before I comment on it – it was also with Ulla Tørnæs from the right-wing Danish government, which is close to the Norwegian Right. But the principle is, yes, I always want to meet the opposition. It is often I get recommendations from embassies and others not to meet the opposition for not irritating leaders in a country. But of course we're going to do that. On the last visit to Burma, I met the so-called uncles, who are the closest advisers to Aung San Suu Kyi. If it becomes relevant for a later visit, either for the Foreign Minister or for me, we will of course meet Aung San Suu Kyi. And we meet the exile government, which is led by the cousin of Aung San Suu Kyi, when they travel around Europe. So it's not possible to create any real doubt that we want to meet – and constantly meet – those oppositionals in Burma. But of course we want to meet different opposition groups, not just Aung San Suu Kyi and her NLD movement, but it's the main opposition group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e723	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e726	I notice that the Council of State says that of course they meet the oppositionals. It stands in very strong contrast to how the Council of State has handled e.g. Cuba. Although leading opposition leaders in Cuba have asked for a meeting of the Solheim Government Council, and although they have warned that Norway will allow the Cuban authorities to decide the rules for contact, Solheim has not chosen to meet, for example: Oswaldo Payá, a leading opposition officer in Cuba. On the contrary, the Council of State underlined in an interview with the Government: ‘I would like to meet oppositional people, which I do in almost every country I visit. When I don't do this, it's because I think we get a better relationship with the opposition because we also have a good relationship with the authorities." What is it that makes the government have a completely different relationship to and a different willingness to meet the opposition in Cuba than what you've almost said anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e736	The President should only recall that the supplementary question should relate to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e739	Yes, it did to a very great extent, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e744	It may seem that it is related to the response of the Council of State and the attitude of principle towards meeting the opposition, and the President therefore lets the question pass and expects the Solheim Government Council to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e747	I am very happy that the question is allowed to pass, because I would very much like to answer it. I have a principleal view that I want to meet the opposition everywhere I am, regardless of the nature of the regime, democratic and dictatorial regimes – it can sometimes be difficult to know which group to meet, but in principle I want to do so. When we didn't do it by one exception in Cuba, it was because we considered it appropriate for the purpose of reestablishing such a relationship with Cuba that it was possible again to have a dialogue with the opposition groups and with the Cuban regime about the opposition groups. Now I'm not going to brag too much, but I think that the dialogue I had with Cuba's foreign minister during that visit was a contributing factor in Cuba's later release of a good number of political prisoners. Spain was in the driving seat for this, but Norway has contributed to it, and it is a positive decoration that we appreciate, but of course must be continued by new steps. I also want to meet Cuban oppositionals when they travel to Norway, and I think some of them are coming to Norway in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e756	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e760	In the follow-up to what Skovholt Gitmark asked: It was probably also the case that the Danish Minister of Assistance was actually left in Burma to meet the opposition. But that's not what I was going to say. Today's Business Today, the Council of State says the following: ‘We must stop apologizing for aid and private investment to undemocratic countries. I reject the idea that investment in a country is a support to those who govern.’ In January 2011, the Norwegian Government encourages Norwegians not to trade, invest in or travel to Myanmar. So, in addition to that, the government is contributing millions in aid to Burma, where funds for emergency aid and humanitarian aid are also disappearing on the way in. So I want to ask the Council of State, what does he really mean? Is it okay that we invest – is it okay that the government invests, but not private? Is it okay to contribute, but then you have to expect that too... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e772	I share the same basic view of all of this: both public and private investment and assistance almost always contribute to democratic development in a country over time. We can look at what has now happened to Egypt, and what has happened in Tunisia – and what happened before that in Indonesia: General Wiranto faced great crowds in Indonesia. He decided that the Indonesian army is not shooting at the people. The same principleal decision was made by the Tunisian generals and the Egyptian generals, and that was the prerequisite for the success of the people's uprising in the two countries. Why did they make such a decision? Well, they had a lot of contact with the rest of the world. It has even seemed probable positive that some of them had been educated in American military colleges. That is not all that is happening there, which is good, but I think it contributes to a democratic attitude in some of these countries. Creating a middle class through investment and economic progress helps to create a pre-requisite for the social change that has now broken the dictatorships. This should also be taken over by the Norwegian right-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e781	Øyvind Hope - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e784	It's true, as the Council of State says, that there is a great deal of consensus about the principle view of the military dictatorship in Burma. Luckily, there's a broad consensus here in the hall about that. But I have to say that I am still amazed by the great pragmatism of the government, and especially the Council of State Solheim, when talking about relations with the military dictatorship in Burma, among others. re-establish his unreserved support for the abolition of penalties and the maximum level of trade. It is now quite clear that there is advice from almost all Western countries and votes which are expressed in the debate on sanctions, that concrete progress should be made by the military dictatorship before the possible lifting of sanctions, and that the advice that Aung San Suu Kyi is now coming up with is to be listened to through the assessments made. What is the government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e791	The government's policy is very clear: we are in agreement with the EU on the sanctions that the EU has in relation to Burma because we do not believe in any Norwegian only, but we are in charge of discussing this in a number of forums. I do well to meet some European leader who says in a private conversation that he believes that the sanctions against Burma are working, that is, they are actually helping to bring the country in a more democratic direction. I may have overlooked someone, but at least I haven't met many people who have such an opinion. What surprises me is that as a socialist, I have to stand here and explain to a series of representatives from the right the fundamental fact that economic progress is a revolutionary force in a country, that it creates a broad middle class, that you have economic progress, that you create an independent business – that all these factors contribute over time, add to the platform for democratic progress. What is absolutely fundamental in what is the main issue in Burma, in Egypt, in Indonesia and in Tunisia is: will the army shoot in a crisis situation, or will it not do so? I think the more contact, the less chance of bloodshed in a combat situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e798	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e810	There are some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be taken up by the representative of Ola Elvestuen. Question 12, from the representative of Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has a history of disease. At the request of the Minister for Transport, the question is moved and answered in response to question 5 to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative of Torgeir Tjäldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 14, from Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Labour, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e829	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘According to the TALIS report for 2008, teachers in Norwegian schools receive little or no feedback, whether they have good or bad results in their education, from the school management. The Progress Party believes that this is neither good school management nor good staffing policy. Most people need feedback on their own work, which in many cases is what they need to get better or to find out that they are doing is right. Is the Council satisfied with the feedback given to teachers in the Norwegian school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e838	I would like to start by thanking you for asking this question, because it is a very central leadership task in school – and really everywhere else – that school leaders give feedback to the teachers. It is quite right that the TALIS survey in 2008 reveals that Norwegian school leaders are taking action to a lesser extent than their counterparts in other countries if teacher assessments identify weaknesses in the performance of a teacher. This is a relationship that I'm obviously not satisfied with, because we know that success factor No. 1 in school is good teachers. If you are going to be good at such a demanding job, you must get honest feedback and the opportunity to keep improving. I have therefore launched a series of measures to prevent it from continuing to be like this. The rector's school was started in 2009. The aim of the Vice-Chancellor's school is to improve the ability of each principal to carry out the management job in the practical everyday life. Through the training, Vice-Chancellors will have a clearer understanding of their leadership role and increase their strength in that role, as it may be rather tough, as well as skills and tools to meet the main challenges a Vice-Chancellor will face in the future. Good staff management is a very important part of that training. In 2010, we set up the advisory body, which is a guidance service for school owners and principals in the field of quality development. We have also launched specific actions against municipalities with weak student outcomes on national samples. Guidance for newly educated teachers is also important. Studies that have just been carried out in cooperation with the KS show that eight out of ten municipalities and county councils either already have schools with guidance schemes for newly educated teachers or have concrete plans to implement the scheme. I want to follow closely how this is followed up, because this weak feedback culture goes from municipality to school manager, from school manager to teacher and from teacher to student – and there may be immortality in many other places in Norwegian society as well. Clear feedback from which to learn and develop is vital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e858	It was very positive that the Minister of Knowledge saw the problems and saw the opportunities that exist by getting a good feedback culture. I also see that measures are being implemented, but it will take time. As the Minister of Knowledge pointed out, a good culture of feedback to teachers is also important for student outcomes and to solve other problems, such as: keeping calm and order in the classroom, which is of great importance in getting a good knowledge environment for the students. I think it would be beneficial for both teachers and students that the teacher be evaluated and get feedback on his work from the headmaster on both teaching and classroom management. In the TALIS report, teachers from other countries respond to their positive assessment and are often of a constructive nature that improves teaching. Has the Minister made an opinion on this with regard to Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e869	I have no plans to implement a rating system for teachers, but it is a school manager's duty, i.e. the principal and others in the management of a school, to provide teachers with an assessment of and feedback on the job being done. If there is a teacher who with guidance and by making some demands on what to achieve before the next round of assessment, has the opportunity to develop further, it is very positive. We also have an important job for teachers and what the representative had to do with class management, because there is also a crucial need to give feedback to the students, the culture of assessment. Then it's my goal that the big message we've recently had for treatment in the Great Britain about time use in school is also taken seriously, because very many principals and principals say they have too little time to follow up the educational work and too much administrative work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e878	Recruitment in the workplace is important everywhere, and especially in the school, where the teacher is the second most important person in order to receive good education. What also appeared in the TALIS report on the issue of penalties in the context of poor teaching was that far more teachers from other countries replied that they could risk losing their job or getting paid less. The report shows that school management in Norwegian secondary schools is more administrative than educational leadership. Furthermore, teachers who teach in the Norwegian school find that there are only a few who expect to be held accountable. Norwegian school leaders are less likely to take action in poor teacher performance than their foreign counterparts, and a majority of teachers in Norwegian school believe that poorly done work is tolerated by their colleagues. What does the Minister of Knowledge think about this, and how will she, as the school administrator, make this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e887	I think we have to treat teachers like other adult people and workers in the workplace. This means that if you do a bad job or if you have been injured to choose wrong education, there must be a school manager there and colleagues who alert a management if you see unsustainable cases. And then there's the boss's heavy job in case to start a process that might lead him to change jobs. But this will be about the exceptions. In the vast majority of cases, evaluation and assessment of teachers’ efforts are aimed at providing feedback on what is good. And fortunately, it's going incredibly well. We have very good and competent teachers, and they really deserve to hear more often that they are, because they need that inspiration to stand on. And then there's always something that can change. A good leader, wherever you are, is close to his employees and demands, has expectations for them, gives feedback. That's what makes it fun to work; that you get feedback, and that you are asked to do so. So my hope is that we'll get a lot more competence around this in school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e898	‘The Government shall present in May an action plan for the follow-up of veterans. In this context, the Council of State stated that the veterans should be included in this work. Will the Council of State ensure that a wide representative sample of veterans is included in the work on this action plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e905	During the action plan work, we have focused on the good and broad involvement of the veterinary organisations and personnel organisations in the defence sector. The established organisations have participated in reference groups and working groups which have played a crucial role in responding to actions and discussing important proposals for the action plan entitled ‘In service of Norway’. The veterans are not a homogeneous group. The veterans, and their relatives, have different backgrounds and needs. They are also grouped into several networks and groups. This gives a composite picture of potential partners and actors. Furthermore, we have to assume that there are new types of organisation in today's societies, such as the United States. social media not covered by the traditional organisational concept. Here we find important voices that we also listen to. The ministry has wanted to reach the width of the veterans so that as much as possible they can make recordings and comments. We have therefore also had ongoing contact with the smaller established veterinary organisations, and have held meetings with several different groups and individuals who have targeted important insights. There is an increasing proportion of those who are still serving in Defense, who are veterans. It is therefore important that their input is also taken into account during the work on the action plan. In this context, employee organisations and several inter-defence veteran groups are important spokespersons for the veterans. We are now in the middle of the consultation period for the action plan. Today, a separate consultation meeting is being held with several organisations. Here, too, organisations can promote views and proposals for concrete actions relevant to the action plan. The various speakers of the Veterans can therefore be said to be well involved in the work on the action plan. The veterans have valuable experience and knowledge. This is the knowledge we constantly attract in matters relating to the field of veterinary medicine, including the preparation of the action plan. Without the active involvement of the veterans, the government would not be able to make the promise we are now in the process of implementing in the veterans' field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e920	A great many of our veterans have their daily work in the Defence Department after a foreign service has ended. In addition to this group, we have a fairly large group of veterans who actually experience that life is not like it was before they went out in service. These are people who have faced so great challenges that they no longer work in society or in work. Will the Council of State ensure that this part of the veteran group is also included in the action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e925	It is absolutely right that there are some veterans who are struggling extra after returning home – unfortunately. Just this group has been very important among veterans to follow up, listen to and listen to. A number of measures that have already been implemented are aimed at ensuring a better economy and providing them with better assistance and support for other public services, including health services. We also have representatives of these in the work on the action plan – both organisations that are directly organised to take care of this group, and other organisations, which of course also include consideration for this group. In addition, I and others in the department have direct dialogue with individuals who have important experience in how this feels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e932	I am pleased that the Council of State agrees that it is also important to bring this group together. Then I wonder how the Council of State thinks this should be organised, so that no one is left out or ignored in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e937	As I said, in the work on the action plan, we have met with the organisations in several rounds. Also today, as part of the consultation round on the current draft action plan, we have a meeting with the organisations. My wish, as we have also had in the past, is to have a continuous dialogue with the organisations to be able to continuously improve the actions we have already introduced, and to be able to address any new challenges facing the veterans, both in their daily work and as representatives of this group of veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e946	‘It turns out to be major and persistent problems related to the use of lead-free ammunition by the defence. Soldiers experience repeated health disorders in the use of ammunition, as well as technical problems in use in most weapons types of defence. Will the Council of State consider acquiring other ammunition, if necessary standard lead ammunition, for the defence, and how quickly, if necessary, can the ammunition be replaced?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e953	That is an important question raised by the representative. The Annual Report Together for a Non-toxic Environment — Prerequisites for a Safer Future, submitted in the autumn of 2006, underlines that the value creation in Norway should, as far as possible, be free of environmental emissions by 2020. In the defence sector, work has come a long way. The government's objective has been pursued. One measure recommended by the Defence is the introduction of lead-free ammunition. Leaded ammunition is not just better for the environment. It also reduces the discharge of harmful substances. Lead is a substance that is harmful to health and children and foetuses are particularly vulnerable. The use of leaded ammunition can in worst cases cause nerve and brain damage. However, the introduction of lead-free ammunition has not been problem-free. There have been failures and malfunctions of some of the weapons, and the soldiers have reported health problems after the execution of the shooting. I have been informed by the head of defense that the defence took hold of these problems in 2009. Nevertheless, health problems are still reported today during and after shooting. Today, the defence has a much higher consumption of ammunition, among other things. in view of the need for training to Afghanistan. The Defence Manager, in cooperation with the Defence Chief Protection Officer and the entire line of defence, has therefore implemented further measures. The working environment in the Defence shall be such that no one is sick of going to work. Cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate has been started in order to obtain advice and guidance. The defense also states that the shooting is reduced, that there is an increased distance between the shooters, and that the use of overbuilt and built-in parking spaces is not currently being avoided. In addition, the reporting and follow-up of the soldiers following the execution of the shooting has been strengthened through the occupational health service. A technology programme was launched in 2010 by the Swedish Defence Research Institute, which, together with the manufacturer, develops a new version of lead-free ammunition. This has shown positive test results and a test series is under acquisition for further testing. Much work is done both in the defence sector and in the supplier to achieve improved lead-free ammunition. Lead-containing ammunition is not preferable to health or the environment, and it is not appropriate to replace today’s ammunition with something worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e970	As this case has rolled over many years, it may seem that the scandal is also getting bigger. The soldiers get very sick from the metal dust emitted by the steel ammunition, they get unrealistic training conditions by having to shoot on other tracks and training fields than they are used to, and they also have to shoot with an outdoor mask to avoid this metal dust entering their lungs. We also know – which may not have come out so well – that the effective range of ammunition with which you are now shooting is reduced from approximately HK416. 800 to 400 meters. This means that you get less impact safety, and the spread of the ammunition is greater, in such a way that the error margin is now approximately. 10 cm to each side, against normally 2 cm to each side. This means that you are less rusted to carry out the tasks you have, for example. in Afghanistan. Doesn't the Ministry of Defence and the Minister take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e977	Without going into the details of the situation, it is imperative for me to make sure that the head of defence takes this issue seriously. Without being an expert on ammunition, it is important to me that both the protection line and the organisations involved, together with the Labour Inspectorate, are working to find better solutions. Of course, it's also the supplier. The fact that we are now seeing positive test results using a new version of lead-free ammunition is important to note, also that there is now a test series under acquisition for further testing, with the aim of reducing and resolving this problem as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e984	The Minister of Defence said in his first reply that there is now an order to shoot less than before. One of the main problems, especially in the Army, is that there is already too little shooting, that there is too little practice and training, and that there is too little ammunition. Now, if you assume that you have to shoot even less to meet the requirements of steel ammunition, it's a serious signal. I also record that the Minister of Defence says in his reply that it is not appropriate to replace the environmental ammunition with leaded ammunition. My question is then: When will the Council of State and the Ministry of Defence realise that the limit has been reached for the use of the type of ammunition that the Defence must use today, and move to another type of ammunition that ensures that the safety and health of the soldiers is put in the high seat and that reduces the risk of misfires – not least as regards civilians in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e999	I am pleased that the head of defence has now assured that the full focus has been on ensuring a new version of lead-free ammunition, which reduces and hopefully resolves the health challenges posed by today's version of lead-free ammunition. It can't be a point to replace something that's not good enough with something that's weaker. This has been worked systematically over a long period of time, with the aim of obtaining a version of ammunition that meets both environmental and health requirements, and which can of course be used as best as possible for the other purposes it is intended to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1008	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In today’s Business day of 22 February 2011, we can read that Norway is at the top of compensation of employees. The costs are 50 percent higher than our competitors in Europe. This weakens our competitiveness. In addition, the industry has many other taxes and prescriptions. What will the Council of State help to make our industry more competitive at price?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1017	It is absolutely right that we have a relatively high salary level in Norway. It's also a reflection of our high welfare; it's our standard of living at this high salary level. High pay means that people's work is going well, and it's positive. That means that our work is creating great values. However, for enterprises, high wages can mean high costs compared to those with which they compete, so companies competing with enterprises in other countries will have a challenge if the Norwegian wage level comes out of line with our productivity development. The statistics to which the per capita representative Per Roar Bredvold refers show that during the last ten years, Norwegian industry has had a good productivity growth measured by value added per hour. It has increased more with us than with our trading partners. This reflects the fact that Norwegian industry has been good at getting well paid for its products measured at work in order to produce them. When we look at productivity levels, Norway was actually the highest in the OECD, 27 pst. higher than in the United States and 46 pst. higher than the EU average in 2009. Even when we correct for the exceptional yield in the oil sector, productivity is higher in Norway than in the EU. So it shows that it's going to be competitive, even at a high pay level. That's where the key to the challenge lies. In order to maintain both standard of living and competitiveness over time, Norwegian enterprises must either produce goods and services with a high value, or produce the goods and services with a smaller resource input, i.e. be more productive. To put it another way: we have to work smart. We need to put skills, technology and capital into our production to combine living standards with competitiveness. Therefore, there should be no target for Norwegian industry to compete with other countries to pay the lowest possible wage. We're going to change, and we're going to always find the areas and the businesses where the use of resources throws most of it. Then we can continue to keep the title ‘the richest country in the world’. We can reduce the cost of business by other means than a reduction in wages and salaries. We can create good and predictable framework conditions; we can create an effective tax system; we can contribute with research efforts to build skills together with businesses. A good welfare country also contributes to lower costs to businesses. And then we're going to have a big project to reduce the administrative burden on businesses -- there's a lot of good business development in simplifying public sector bureaucracy towards business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1032	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was okay and complementary. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there's not just pay that means we're competitive. That is also what I mean by my question; we have many charges and instructions that can be done better. It's clear that we're not going to compete to be the cheapest in wages, that's not what this is about. We have to be competent: all praise to the Norwegian industry for being competitive in both quality and in some areas of price. What it's about, is that to keep the well-being we have, we need jobs. We see the trend that has been in recent years with quite a lot of flagging, among other things. has Sperre Støperi in my immediate district, Elverum, now flagged out. It was a great and good job for many for many over many years, but because of the competition they have received from abroad, they are unable to be competitive and have moved their production to a former Eastern bloc country. That's what we see when it comes to others; they're looking for other places to produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1039	There will probably always be a certain shift of the most labour-intensive industry to countries with low labour costs. It is not certain that it is a goal for Norway to compete to do the simple tasks where a lot of people are needed. On the other hand, we should focus on the high-productive industries, the new industries, which have unique products and services and which have a good market at high prices. That is what is the basis for a good standard of living. In fact, Norwegian industry is going well. In 2011, the organisation Norsk Industrie itself expects a growth of 7 pst. We have growth in industrial employment, we have more industrial employees today than we had in 2005. It is estimated that it will reach 280,000 in 2011. It's a positive development. We have a formidable growth in employment in Norway, and we are perhaps the best country in Europe through the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1046	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the Council of State and the signatories have a common objective, and that is that the most jobs should be in Norway and that we should be as competitive as possible. On a number of company visits that I've been to lately, there are several things that repeat themselves, for example. This with predictability; a company will have predictability, and not that we politicians will come up with new rules overnight. And then it's about framework conditions and a little bit about transportation and a lot of other things, for example. inheritance taxes and property taxes on working capital. There is a lot of work that politicians and the Council of State can do to contribute, so that we still have Norwegian jobs in Norway. That's what it's about, so we can still have a good well-being. There I miss something from the government and the council, how we're going to solve this. Something as simple as removing the wealth tax on working capital is a simple thing you can do almost overnight, and it will provide predictable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1053	I think there are more people in this room who know that removing billions of dollars from the state budget just overnight might sound a little simpler than it is when actually sitting and creating a budget that is to be adapted to the Norwegian economy. I think we need to make sure that the level of interest rates, exchange rates and our overall competitiveness are not weakened. Let's do that, for example. By holding back the use of money, make sure that we do not spend so much oil money that these general framework conditions in terms of interest rates and exchange rates against the rest of the world destroy the possibilities for Norwegian industry. It is a poor comfort to get less taxes on wealth if competitiveness towards the rest of the world is weakened by 10-20 pst. because the Norwegian krone is in the weather because of irresponsible use of money. 14 B.C.E. less taxes on wealth will mean cuts in welfare goods, in care of the elderly and in school. There is no free lunch when making a government budget. There are other things – I think – that are more important to keep the business going, today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1062	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘Interconnection of E6 over the Women’s Mountains is more frequent and more frequent. The reason is low manning and lack of incubation equipment. Frequent closures create problems between north and south, causing problems for residents, travellers and businesses. What will the Council of State do before the next winter season, so that winter closure is kept to a minimum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1071	E6 above the Women's Mountains is a high mountain gradient. The state Road Service reports that during the period 2004–2009, the number of temporary closures varied from eight to twelve per year, while the number of column runs varied between three and twelve. This winter the road has been closed 24 times, and it has our seven column runs. The main problem in winter has been our lack of visibility, especially because of wind and snow. The problems have been accentuated by the fact that the road has a strong slope and a poor curve. The road authority of the State is in continuous dialogue with the contractor who has the operating contract on this route. Measures that may reduce the number of closures will be considered in cooperation with the contractor. The most relevant short-term measure will require an increase in operational resources. This will be clarified before the next winter season. More long-term actions will be assessed in the context of the work of the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1078	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I see the answer as reasonably positive, because one of the feedbacks I have received from those who live in the area is that it has been low crew, which has led to long guards for those who have been on guard and who have again led to closure. So it's positive that the Council of State will take initiatives to increase staffing. Now this area can also be seen with the North Mountain, which probably also the Council of State knows. Then I would also like to connect it a little bit to the answer given by the Council of State, where racial protection is the instrument to get a dangerous path through. It is within the national transport plan, in the last half. Will the Council of State take any initiative in raising the Nordnes mountain in priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1085	First of all, I'm very happy that we have 1 billion. kr in place for racial protection, divided by half by state roads and the rest by state roads. This will mean that we can now start some very long-term race protection projects in 2011. And so it is that today it rages on a larger scale than one thought a few years ago, and it rages more places. This means that racial protection is entirely open-ended as an important issue in the context of the current budgets, prior to the programming message to be submitted in 2013 and which relates to the forthcoming planning period. But what I'm going to promise is that both the Nordnesberg and other postponed sections here are going to be subject to a very careful assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1090	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If you have a billion in place, it is important that you use the billion that is in place, so that it – I kept saying – does not stand unused. There's another discussion that I'm not going to take. I think this winter has clearly shown that both the Kvänang Mountain and the Nordnes Mountain must be raised in the priority, and I look forward to it being put in place. In the case of the Kvänang mountain, it is a mountain crossing and is naturally kept. I think everyone understands that. But the sooner we have – and then we almost have to go back to the war – measures have been taken to ensure that the road is far-fetched. Does the Council of State see any possibility of taking action, such as the development of wind protection, screen protection and the kind of thing, on the Kvänang Mountain – measures that can come reasonably quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1099	There are major unsolved needs in the road sector. Fortunately, we have a government that invests in an offensive national transport plan. There are many communities that can rejoice already in 2011, and we will follow up in the coming years. So these days it might look like we have money standing on the book. It's completely wrong. When it comes to racial protection, there are some projects, especially two, that are a little late. But the money will be used for racial protection. They will be transferred to 2011, so there is no reason to worry. Let me say that securing the appearance in itself is very important. That's why we're going to go round when it's primarily about resources coming in winter, and then we're going to bring out both the Kvänang Mountain and the Nordnes Mountain in the context of the work that's now taking place with the state municipalities, towards the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1106	We're going to go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1113	This question, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1116	I have the following questions for the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘The fight against organised crime would bring peace to the policy of predatory wildlife. Everyone can see that this has not happened. According to newspaper headlines and media issues, it is clear that many central party representatives, including the Council of State, are disunity in the predatory game policy that has been pursued after the rapprochement was concluded. It seems that the Central Party has disclaimed all responsibility for the predatory policy that the government is running. Why has the government not ensured that the government orientated the Storting that the raiders have broken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1125	I agree that there are still major challenges in predatory wildlife policy. In its policy platform for the period 2009–2013, the Soria Moria II Declaration, the government has said that the main features of the 2004 With this, we are also continuing the two-part goal of securing the survival of the predatory game populations on one side and feeding based on grazing on the other side. The government has set up a series of measures in Soria Moria II to reduce losses and conflicts associated with predators and grazing animals, based on the predatory game agreement. The government is adding things to it. emphasis on credible stock estimates, preventive measures against wild game injuries, active management of wild game populations and improvement of replacement arrangements. The creation of Rovdata on 1 December 2010 as a self-reliant unit under NINA is a strengthening of file monitoring and has opened up for more local participation in the work. The government has increased its rights to prevent and mitigate conflicts significantly, from 37 million. SEK in 2006 to 68 million. kr for 2011. This allows for emergency measures and more long-term adaptations to the operational arrangements. The fall in damage is also considerably more effective. Losses due to predatory game shall be replaced in full. The livestock replacement schemes are now being reviewed by an expert selection to propose more correct replacements. The government's policy will be the result of discussions between the various government parties. The policy pursued in Soria Moria II is behind the government. Then I must stress that it is the Minister for the Environment who is responsible for the follow-up to the adopted predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1145	I thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Council of State would come to answer this. The former Minister of Agriculture Riis-Johansen said on 23 January 2008 that the government will now take action to mitigate the predatory conflicts and reduce the loss of sheep and reindeer. Liv Signe Navarsete, party leader in the Center Party, has said that for a long time there are many examples of arrogance from the predatory game management, and that leads to mistrust. Councillor Breck has said that the situation is precarious, and it's too much gloat, yew and bear. There has been systematic double communication from the Center Party throughout this government period. On the right, proposals for an evaluation of the rapprochement were already in 2007, but were downgraded among others. of the Centre Party. What concrete action has the Centre Party taken to evaluate the rapprochement agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1154	I can say hello from the Council of State Breck, who is indisposed, who is in hospital, but who wants to return to work as Minister of Agriculture and Food as soon as he can. He might have been able to respond more fully to what's been done in these years than I can at present, but let me stress: in a tripartite government, there may be different approaches to the different issues. It can even be unsavory. We're going to write together. We also did so in predatory policy in the conciliation. And then it's a laziness to concrete and follow up even better, so now the government has started a collaboration with the Stortinget to get a wide plurality for new stock targets for the wolf and bear. It is the Minister for the Environment who manages it, in conjunction with the Advisory Committee of the Stortinge and the Energy and Environment Committee of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1163	I thank you for your answer. It is interesting to see that the Central Party Councils are far from the policy of the government when it comes to predatory game. Of course, it might be interesting to hear what the other parties have to say to the criticism that the representatives of the Central Party are travelling with, and the double communication that is in it. My question to the Council of State is: Isn't it that the government's policy is the central party's policy even when it comes to predatory and predatory game?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1172	That's the answer. That's the answer. The central party is on the government's policy in this field. At the same time, the agreement reached in the United Kingdom in 2004 has set specific targets for the number of juveniles of large predatory game, both bear, wolf and yerv and gaupe, and targets for grazing throughout the country. There was also an agreement where the Center Party and the Progress Party did not go into it. Then there has been a close connection between the size of the populations and the loss of grazing animals to predators. Stocks have been under construction, the number of sheep replaced by wild game has increased evenly by 2000. This number has doctors on the other side of it. There is a background in this area for a round to see how to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1179	So we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1186	‘The National Psychiatric Health Project in School has now been proposed. The project was set up in 2004 as part of the escalation plan and now involves 80 pst. of the country's secondary schools. An important reason for success is today's organisation through the Psychiatric Education Foundation. Will the State Council contribute to the continuation of the project as a permanent scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1193	There is no doubt that knowledge of mental health makes us better equipped to deal with life's challenges and to help others who are struggling. The goal of the Psychiatric Health Programme in School has been to increase the knowledge of mental health in primary and secondary schools, what they can do to take care of their own and others' mental health and knowledge of where they can get help. School management, parents and teachers have also been the focus of their efforts. The school’s Psychiatric Health Programme was launched in 2004. It was planned to last until 2008, but it was continued both in 2009 and 2010 as one of many actions within the Roadmap for Mental Health. Psychiatric health in school consists of several smaller programmes run by different organisations. The Health Directorate, Education Directorate and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs – as it is hot – have cooperated on the initiative, which I believe has been both important and correct. In a recent report on the prevention of mental illness, the Institute of Public Health also underlines the importance of launching and evaluating such initiatives. The Roadmap for Mental Health covers a wide range of projects and initiatives. It is natural that these should now be reviewed and evaluated in order to ensure appropriate continuation. Several of the programs in Psychiatric Health at School have now been evaluated, and the Health Directorate is reviewing the organisation of work. No change decision has been made, but processes are in progress. The participating organisations will continue their financial framework in 2011 at about the same level as in previous years. Increased knowledge of mental health in schools is good prevention. I will ensure that this work is continued in a way that ensures that the best possible use is made of the effort. Information and knowledge on mental health in school — that is certain. I intend to return to Stortinget for this work in connection with the State budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1204	At least among those working on this project, it is perceived that the Health Directorate intends to choose a different organisation of the Psychiatric Health project in school, one of which is to a greater extent allowing this to become part of the ordinary activities of the school. I think it's precisely the organisation through the foundation, through the cooperation with the volunteer organizations, etc. which means that one has achieved the success that one has achieved over the years of the project, because one has people behind the project, heads it nationally, and has a special involvement in the field. Thinking that this is only going to be part of the ordinary activities of the schools, or part of the public system, is likely to lead to the disappearance of the exposure and the loss of the work that has been done to date. Can the Minister of Health say anything about whether she sees that the very form of organisation is a cause for success?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1213	As I said, there is no doubt that this has been a good project that has reached quite a number of students. I think I had a number of 198 000 students who have participated in this bet, and that's incredibly good. But it's now like projects that they have a beginning, and they also often have to end. They have to be evaluated, and then you have to look at how to go about it. I am also aware that the organisations behind this are involved in that evaluation. So this isn't the only project that's about psychologists in the municipalities and also in school. The most important thing is that we continue with the goal we've had, that getting knowledge about mental health, knowing where to get help, and being able to help others, friends and close, is incredibly important. Somehow we have to go on with this, if not exactly with the same organization, but that doesn't mean that someone is being excluded. I want to repeat that I'm coming back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1220	In conclusion, the Minister of Health and Health said in her first and second reply that she would come back to this. In her first answer she says she will come back to Stortinget in connection with the state budget for 2012. I feel that this is positive if it means that there will be no change in the framework conditions or organisation of the activities that are now before the Stortinge has seen this in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1225	I can confirm that the 2011 framework will be about the same level, approx. Sixteen million. kr, as it has been in previous years. So it's going on this year. But then we're in an evaluation, and then we have to look at this in conjunction with all the other projects. The goal is to reach as many students as possible, as many teachers as possible and as many relatives as possible in order to get good training, good education, and that we should do everything we can to improve mental health among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1234	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘Refer to written question No. 900 for 2010–2011. The answer was not satisfactory and suggests that the Council of State has a very light-weight use of polls. The Council of State has repeatedly used NINA’s polls as a witness to the truth of what the silent majority wants. The question is therefore repeated: Is the Council of State absolutely certain that NINA's poll reflects the full truth of what the people want as he has expressed many times?'
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1243	The term 'full truth' is well something I rarely take in my mouth. I don't think there's any full truth about very many questions. But what I think is that NINA's polls represent a very credible source of knowledge about people's attitudes to predators. It is neither more nor less credible than polls most. It gives an atmosphere picture, it gives the situation at a given time, but they've also asked the same questions at several years intervals and got many of the same answers. However, the material indicates some positive public opinion bias in the case of predators. So, of course, Gundersen is right in saying that in this question, as in all other questions, there is a difference between those that are most affected and those that are not so much affected. It is not different whether you ask questions about the care of the elderly, about the health care system or about the school. Some people are much more affected by a question than others. That's the same thing here. But if we separate the different areas, even in the most predatory areas, in the municipalities where there are predators, a large number of people who find predators acceptable, a little more people who think it's more negative than positive. But that's not a fundamental difference to the rest. If you look at the rest of Building Norway and District Norway, there are predominantly positive attitudes to predators. The concept of 'the tame majority' comes from President Nixon's Vice-President in his time. It might be a parallel to this. He spoke about the Americans' attitude to the Vietnam War and thought to talk about it. He did not refer to those who were particularly affected by that war; it will in this case then say the soldiers in Vietnam, but he expressed himself generally about the Americans' attitude to it. I mean, I keep my words full. It is a large, broad, silent majority in the countryside and in the city of Norway who accept predators. Many want more. Someone wants fewer. But there is greater scepticism in the areas of most predators, of course, because people are most affected. But even there is not the massively negative attitude towards predators that the representative Gundersen has shown through a very large number of questions in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1254	We hope it doesn't evolve into Vietnam states, we both agree on that. Now the Council of State nuances its answer slightly in relation to the written question, because there he said ‘full trust’. Then at least it can start to get interesting, because we're not running play democracy in Norway. Toy democracy can explore the Council of State in its second role as the Minister of Development. I've got people who can poll, to look at the polling of NINA, and there are significant challenges in data collection. There is no representative sample of the population; there are questionings and, in particular, interpretations of the results that can be quite easily disputed. One is to ask, among other things: ‘accept’ and ‘accept’, and interpret it as a positive attitude. I can accept quite a lot without therefore having a positive attitude to it. What the Council of State must realize is that the'silent majority' as an instrument against those who are actually affected is a very strong instrument, and it is driving the conflicts forward. So I appreciate his mothering, at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1263	It is at this poll, which knows very many others, full opportunity to ask critical questions both around the question formulation and around the sample. However, there is no greater reason to doubt this opinion than is the case in general use of polls in Norway. The samples selected here have certain biases. Those biases will be important if you're dealing with the decimals. If you're wondering if it's 36.2 or 36.5 pst. Which means something, it is clear that then protracted twists could have a meaning. There are some biases here that can point in – what to say – a predator-friendly direction, and others that can point in a more predatory direction. I think they're essentially balancing each other. So I see no reason to doubt this poll more than the party-political polls, polls on what people think about oil drilling in Lofoten, what people think about the situation in the care of the elderly. They're a reflection of people's perceptions. But there is also an important point to take, what Gundersen is concerned about, namely that some people are always much more affected by some political decisions than the majority do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1270	So there I totally disagree with the Council of State. It is obvious that when you ask the population if you can accept the predatory load as it is, and four-fifths have no experience with it, and when you get yes, you interpret it as a positive attitude to predatory game. I would have interpreted it quite the opposite, because you accept it the way it is, and you don't have contact with it – you want it the way it is. I'm putting a lot of questions in that survey. I believe it has been consistently used to ignore the level of conflict that actually lies in the robberies conflict. It's quite serious, because, as I said, a user of the'silent majority' against those who are actually affected, and one does not take into account that all the assumptions for the Great Britain's robbery settlement in 2004 are broken. I have told the Council several times that he should have come back to Stortinget with a matter a long time ago. Now at least we've come into a dialogue, but we haven't got a case yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1277	I would in many ways want polls to be outrageous, because the right is very high on the polls a day. It would be nice if they were extravagant, but long experience with politics has shown that Norwegian polls are reasonably accurate. So there's no reason to be more sceptical about this poll than about the polls that give the Right a break-up at a place between 25 and 30 pst. You might like it or not, but you have good methods to figure it out. Now it is also part of the picture that these polls confirm a series of other impressions that point in the exact same direction. But the main point of Gundersen, which is real – and that is important – is that there is a difference between the people most directly affected by a decision and everyone else. This is also the case in the care of the elderly. Some people are very directly affected by a decision in the care of the elderly, while children and young people may not be equally affected by it. Children’s families are much more affected by school policies than by other people. It is not different from other policy areas in this way, but it is important to pay particular attention to those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1288	I am delighted to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘Statoil believes that the cancer risk associated with the use of amines for CO2 capture in Mongstad is high, which underpins the government’s decision to postpone the project by two new years. The Government’s own Directorate, the Climate and Pollution Directorate, which is responsible for granting permits and setting emission limits, has concluded by letter to the Ministry that the cancer risk associated with the use of amines for CO2 capture is less than previously assumed and that new information points in a positive direction. Why are Statoil’s assessments more important than those of the Climate and Pollution Directorate in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1303	Statoil's assessments are of course – and I repeat, of course – no more important than the assessments of the Climate and Pollution Directorate. Statoil is an oil company. The Climate and Pollution Directorate is a government body for quality assurance of environmental issues, including: in Mongstad and many other places. What has happened is that Statoil has twice presented its assessment of the situation. It is not possible to operate a large carbon capture and storage project in Mongstad without Statoil as the owner of the installation. They're very central to it. Last year, they gave rise to a great deal of concern, especially for nitrosamines. We asked the Climate and Pollution Directorate to assure it. They basically confirmed what had then come from Statoil. So Statoil in ours has come with a new letter that fades down and reduces – what to say – the acute danger especially related to nitrosamines, but focuses on nitramines in this context – without prejudice to my chemical understanding and possibly wrong pronunciation of these concepts – and sees it as more serious. And once again, the Climate and Pollution Directorate confirmed the same points of view that Statoil has had, that the situation is fortunately better than we thought last autumn. I'm sure I'll enjoy Ropstad. I'm glad. That means that the postponement might not have to be that big. But it's very important to do that grip, namely to evaluate more technologies at the same time. Because if we commit to amine technology when there's uncertainty about cancer, in a year or two, we can be in a situation where we actually don't have an alternative, we've committed ourselves to something that was too uncertain, and then we have no alternative. Therefore, the government believes that it is essential now to have different technologies evaluated at the same time in Mongstad. In addition, we would like to have other projects evaluated elsewhere in Norway, so that we also have a comparative basis. We can't just walk forward with a project where it's the least risk of cancer. Now, what the spontaneous questioning time actually showed is that all of the big stuff is also behind this, that we have to get to the bottom of the cancer risk before we can move on. That doesn't mean you stop. You keep working on both technologies, but you put all the cloths on to get knowledge of any cancer. Luckily, we think it's small.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1314	I thank you for your answer. I have to say that I really got a little excited, because the council is clear about who he cares most about, and that's important. But he also says that we can't commit to one technology; it's important to have several runs. Then I have to say that I wonder very much about what has happened in the last two years, because in March 2009, the answer came to the first question, from the representative of Laila Davøy, about precisely the health risk. The government then made it clear that someone was going to take it seriously. Then warned the state's own experts and was clear that this could be a risk. The Christian People's Party wanted in that way to raise the issue – perhaps we had to have an alternative race? But the government hasn't done anything about it. They've wanted to run on one track in the last two years. That's why I wonder that even though the state's own experts say that there's a lot less risk here, while Statoil says that something might have come up more, suddenly Statoil's consideration is taken into account, and therefore wants an alternative race. Why didn't you start with a parallel run already in 2009, because that was a risk, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1321	As I said in the spontaneous question hour, there has been concern about this, notified to the Storting several times. We've said the same thing every time that we have to get to the bottom of it. There's no way at all to think that people in Hordaland are going to be exposed to an additional risk for the sake of a big and important project. Therefore, last year the oil and energy minister announced that he would come back to Stortinget with this. That is what is now happening, by submitting this message – it was submitted on Friday. As part of this reporting back to Stortinget, Statoil has reported a little different things at two times. But what I think we just have to admit is that this kind of isn't charity – it's not like when Rema opens a new store, which Rema has done a thousand times before successful in Norway. This is at the forefront of technology – not just in Norway, but in the world – and much of the knowledge and technology is generated while we go. Waiting for everything to say to be clear from the start is impossible in such a complicated project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1328	That's why it's called a moon landing, I guess. As a matter of fact, I just have to say that I will trust the Council of State, although everyone knows that Statoil has great gains in postponing it, both because the agreement says that the state covers the costs until the investment decision is taken, and because the risk is significantly less the longer it takes. But I'm not going to dig any more in exactly this. What I think is interesting is that SV, who went to the choice of cleaning from day one, accepted cleaning from year 4, and now we don't know what's going on. State Council Solheim itself lifted the emissions permit to the Ministry of the Environment, so that it would be the political treatment of the emissions permit. So I'm really wondering what's in the emission permit that's now given, because when there's a postponement, there's got to be a postponement of the time when cleaning is going to be in place. As a result, one must have an emission permit which may involve a further period of time. The question then arises: what are the consequences of the climate agreement, and what concrete measures should be taken instead? The climate agreement will not be fixed anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1335	Now the questioner came up with a lot of different approaches to the same topic on this question. The most important thing here is to recognize that this is internationally at the forefront of technology. I don't see any reason to doubt Statoil's willingness to carry out the project, but what you should still be aware of, and I'm very aware of, is that Statoil doesn't have its international business activities related to the development of carbon capture and storage technology. Statoil is an oil company. There are others who contribute to the technology in a Statoil area – it could be Aker Clean Carbon, it could be other international companies. So it's absolutely vital that we get these industrial drivers with competence in this field into Mongstad, and that we get to evaluate other similar projects, from Siemens, Daewoo or who it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1345	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be raised by the representative of Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1348	This question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘The Government made a climate settlement with the Left, Christian People’s Party and the Right, which entered in order to reduce national emissions by 15-17 million tonnes, cf. the reference path in the revised 2007 national budget by 2020. The emissions from Mongstad were cleaned within this reference track as from 2014. In what way will this postponement affect the climate agreement, and what measures will the government now take to compensate for the increased emissions raised in Mongstad, cf. the reference path in the revised 2007 national budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1357	The postponement of Mongstad, which we hope will be as short as possible – we hope to be able to update this technology as soon as possible, but if the worst happens, get an investment decision in 2016 and get it done in 2020 – does not affect the climate agreement at all. The climate agreement says what sort of cleaning targets we have for 2020, and this is within that framework. The reference path in the climate agreement is not for discussion. But what's an important point, and as I think is the underlying one here, is that if you were to fail with Mongstad, you have to do more in other areas. Now I think we're going to succeed in Mongstad, and then the climate agreement is not affected, but let's take the theoretical assumption that you should fail with it. Then more needs to be done in other areas to achieve the climate agreement. What, with all due respect, should concern the representative, Elvesuen, is that here in Stortingen, there are now a series of proposals, especially from the Progress Party, but also from the Right, which will make it much more difficult to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement, because if new, unpurified sources of pollution with greater emissions are to be established, then one has to clean up more in other areas. I am absolutely sure that the representative Elvestuen and I agree. But let's say we set up a new gas power plant without cleaning in Finnmark or on Fräna, which has been proposed here several times, and then it becomes bigger Norwegian emissions. Then we have to reduce the corresponding level of industry and oil production, on the heating of construction or on transport. There is no way to satisfy the climate agreement that is different from that if you increase in one area, you have to reduce others. That means that if we were to fail at Mongstad, which I don't think we're going to do, we would have to have bigger reductions in other areas to meet the climate agreement's objectives. But I would strongly appeal to the representative of Elvesuen to point a finger at his media-enlightened government partners soon, because they come repeatedly with proposals that will increase emissions, while the government comes up with a policy that will reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1368	What concerns the Left is the situation in Mongstad and there is no real reduction in the large point emissions in Norway. I now register here that because of the postponement, the government does not come up with any alternative proposals on how to ensure that we achieve the climate target in 2020. My supplementary question is: when you are going to go into new projects where we have point emissions, I hope that the government has learned from its own mistakes in Mongstad, and that there will be clear demands here with time limits as to when CO2 capture is going to be in place, so that we do not end up in the same situation that you are doing in Mongstad, where this only floats off farms with increasing costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1378	As is well known, we present a climate report for Stortinget to the autumn. In that climate communication we will look at the entire spectrum of Norwegian emissions and how we can get them down. The three major ones are transport, oil and industry, but also building heating is important. But there are also other areas such as agriculture, forestry and others. We'll look at all of these. What's important is that the sum goes up. That means that there'll be more emissions at one point, it'll have to be drastically less on another. What we're getting from the Storting is putting on one emission after another, which will have the opposite effect. We now received a proposal from the Progress Party today to reduce the price of petrol – as I understand it – by 2 kroner. An obvious effect of this is the increase in emissions from transport, which will make it more difficult to achieve climate targets in the other areas. But the Progress Party is just putting on top of the other proposals that will also increase emissions, and that should also worry the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1387	What concerns the Left is, of course, the lack of action by the government, among other things. there is a lack of a switch to the tax system that would provide a clear guide to choosing environmentally friendly solutions. What we've seen is, for example, what we've seen. that we have had a tax on biofuels that have gone in the wrong direction, so this – what to say – the description of the government as offensive I would very disagree with. Would it mean that there are no extra measures to achieve drastic climate change if Mongstad were not to succeed? Involves, inter alia, the following: Mongstad's commitment to an offensive and high level in relation to the renewables directive, which would be one instrument for an automatic introduction into the creation of new renewable energy, which can then be used to reduce own climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1394	Once again, there are very many questions that are not easy to answer in a brief article, but the most important thing is that the government has done many of the things that the left-hand denominator has done. Among other things, we have I added about the charging system, which means that we now get the emissions from the car down. We did it, but when the Left sat in government, it didn't happen. For the first time, emissions are now falling in Norway. They're not going down fast enough. We have to get a lot more, and the government is by no means perfect, but it's a fundamental difference from the time when the Left sat in government, where it just increased and increased every year. Now we've set the goal that the emissions per car should be 120 grams. We have achieved – otherwise it is a good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo – a better public transport, which means that there will be less emissions. So it happens a lot. It happened very little before we came to power, but it has to happen more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1405	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘It refers to the news last week that the government is postponing full-scale cleaning on Mongstad for another two years. In 2006 the Ministry of the Environment granted an emission permit to Mongstad requiring purification in 2014. Former emission permits have always been granted by the SFT, but this was so important for SV that you would have control of the conditions in the ministry. The nature protection association now requires the streamlining of the emissions permit as a result of the deferral. Will the Council of States meet this requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1414	The questioner has found it difficult to believe that everything in environmental policy is about SV, rather than seeing that it is about putting in place a fundamentally technologically difficult project that is at the forefront of international action in this area. Had it been the case that there was a shelf product, that there was a Rema store that we were going to set up, they would have been pretty good, many of the suggestions that come. So it is not that any country is far ahead of Norway. This is the technological point – where we create technology, not adopt it. The fundamental part of this is to see that Mongstad is this, and then there's a connection between emissions and developing the technology. It is not possible to develop emissions clean-up technologies if they are not emissions. So the idea that we were going to strangle the emissions to simultaneously develop the technology is going to be very difficult. That's how to clean the emissions that are the point itself. You can't fail and have successes, try, get technology to clean up emissions, unless there's emissions. It's the paradox here. Then it's important to remember that the spills from Mongstad are not toxic emissions like from an industrial enterprise where you have to stop them right now. Emissions in Mongstad are dangerous in the global picture of climate change, where they are one of many, many such sources of emissions. The very purpose of the Mongstad project is to develop a technology to clean Mongstad, but to be useful in China, in the United States, around the world, and where the most important application will hopefully be at coal power plants. But the fundamental thing is: if you want to develop clean-up technology, you have to try it out on what you clean, and that's unfortunately CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1428	The purpose of Mongstad was to get CO2 cleaning. It is probably firm, and it probably meant the government in 2006, but it is that there was a fine compromise between the SV and the Labour Party in government just about the goal in 2014. It tells us that there was no alternative but that SV had to get in 2014, because the option was to reject Statoil's application for the construction of a new gas plant, and then we know what it would mean for jobs. But the question is now, when the Council of State does not want to answer my main question: The big news that came to Stortinget on Friday says that there is now an emission permit with changes. What changes are there in this emissions permit compared to the one that was granted – I think it was on 12 October 2006, compared to the 2016 model and the moon landing to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1438	I have never had trouble admitting that what happened in 2006 was focused on cleaning Mongstad as a national emission source. But we have become wiser along the way, and I sincerely hope that the Christian People's Party too can become a little wiser along the way. What we've seen along the way is that this is fundamentally about something else. It's about developing a technology that the world needs, and as the International Energy Agency and many others have said, is absolutely fundamental to preventing dangerous global warming. It's not primarily about clearing Mongstad, but it's primarily about developing that technology. It is – again – not possible to develop that technology. It's much harder than we thought, much harder than everyone thought. All countries are struggling with this. I would like you to think a little bit more seriously about the situation, that you think about if you fail with this, what huge consequences it will have. Then it's almost certainly impossible to reach the two degree goal. In any case, if we were to fail, we would have to have completely drastic emission reductions in other areas. We have to bet everything on succeeding, but it's technologically incredibly difficult, and it has to be emissions to be able to clean.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1443	It's technically difficult, I think most people knew that in 2006, and we know that in 2011. But the question is, how are we going to succeed? In an answer earlier in this questionnaire, the Council of State said that it was hoped to ‘supplier’. So then Mongstad has become a patient – from a moon landing to becoming a patient, because it's just patients we're reporting. We hope to be able to update this by 2016. But the question is, how are we going to get this patient informed with the technology we have available, also in relation to the climate agreement, because it is in 2020 that we are going to succeed in the climate agreement. The council said he was hoping for a healthy patient, and therefore there was no problem with the climate agreement. But if the patient is still ill, what about the climate agreement? We are unable to absorb 2 million tonnes of CO2 during 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1455	What I said earlier today was that amine technology has a cancer hazard, and we want to "healthy" that technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1460	It wasn't on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1465	Yes, but this is very central to what the questioner said. That technology has the danger that it can lead to cancer. I then used a picture from the health service, to “healthy” that technology. What we're doing is putting everything in there to figure out whether it can be a cancer hazard, and I understand that I've been given massive support in the Stortinge today to do that. But in parallel, not to bet everything on one card, we're investigating other technologies in Mongstad, carbon technology – possibly other technologies too – and in parallel with that again, Gassnova now sees on other projects, all of this with one big goal in mind, namely to succeed in creating an incredibly difficult technology, but as the world needs to the degrees. I wish we could get this a little bit out of the political game and over that this is difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1476	Then we go to today's most important meal, namely breakfast – it refers to last week's meeting: ‘According to Business Day 1 March, the Minister for the Environment held a meeting with four selected environmental organisations at home on Monday 28 February, in which it was informed that the government intends to push the investment decision on CO2 cleaning in Mongstad by 2016. The meeting was also attended by representatives from the civil service. The next day, the government's decision to postpone was out in the media. What was the intention of the Council of State to invite them to meet with the environmental organisations and the ministry in their home on 28 February?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1488	Of all the questions I've been given, this is what I'm most amazed at. In particular, I'm surprised to get it from a representative who I'm as high as Syversen, because the fact that government councils have dialogue with different interest groups in the Norwegian community can't be negative. What would really be dangerous was if you didn't have it. There is a long, established tradition in Norway to have contact with business about tax systems and other matters affecting them. Similarly, of course, the Labour Party, but also the SV and other parties for many, many years have had similar dialogue with the trade union movement. What might be a little bit new is that because we've got a green party into the government, we also have a strong interest in having a similar dialogue with the environmental movement, that is, raising the environmental movement to a level where the business community and the trade movement have long been like a natural interlocutor to try out ideas, to test out, to capture the knowledge that's there. If someone were to make demands to me as the Council of State that I should end this, I would at least say that for me, political activity would become quite meaningless. I also want to have it with many of the core groups with which the Christian People's Party hopefully has dialogue, with the mission organizations, with the Church. If you have important issues with the Church, you have a dialogue with the Church before you make a decision on them. This I wanted to have. Balls and coffee were served at this meeting. I have had it for many years in different formats – not necessarily with exactly the same ones that were invited to this meeting, but I have had phone calls, meetings in my office, etc. Obviously, if participants at such a meeting immediately run to the media with it, it becomes harder to have it, but it's a risk they're there taking. It will concern the business community, the mission organisations, the Church, the trade movement as well. If they immediately run to the media with it, there will be less contact. But I hope that this was a mistake after this meeting, and I hope that I can still have close contact to try out ideas and reap their experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1495	I am absolutely in favour of state councils having contact with the environmental movement or mission organisations. But perhaps this meeting in retrospect rather tastes of trying to – what to say – prepare the reason why there should be no criticism of the government's decision, which was already in fact made. Perhaps that was why environmental organisations also went to the media, because they felt that they were being used — not to say abused — in a political game, where the point was not to get involved, but to basically prepare the environmental organisations and others for what the government decided on this matter. Doesn't the Council of State think that maybe it's a more likely explanation for the meeting than what the Council of State keeps saying, that it was to get recorded. Recording is certainly all interested in. I don't think the Council of State needs to be worried about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1500	No, I'm not really worried about that. The participants at the meeting said that they very much appreciated that the meeting was held. Several of them have approached me in retrospect and deeply regretted that someone had leaked from this meeting, which makes it more difficult to hold this kind of meeting afterwards. I think the environmental movement very much appreciates the fact that there is a government that takes them in the same seriousness as you take the Church, the trade movement and the business community as central interlocutors on important issues. Of course, there will always be a gi-and-take on such issues, but there is no difference between the environmental movement and all other societal interests. Of course, a government will have an interest in presenting their views and getting fellow players, while collecting information and correcting the course. But there are environmental organisations like NHO, LO and Church, and I could mention a series of other interest groups in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1509	The differences in view are well based on whether the decision was actually taken or not, and sources far away from the government parties believe that it was made. I now quote from Arne Strand in the Newspaper: ‘Now it is not good parliamentary practice and use to publish important government decisions at a private lunch table.’ All the evidence suggests that the decision was actually taken. Will the Council of State dispute that, in general, the decision was already taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1519	I will not dispute at all that the government's plan was to present this big message last Friday. It was long said that we did this because it came in the middle of the World Cup. And then it turned out that the real reason was that Terje Riis-Johansen wants to become county rapporteur in Telemark and has long wanted to leave the government, but would connect it to this, and have presented this before he was done. Of course that was the plan. But five days is quite a long time in politics. There is full opportunity to correct many things in a five-day big-time message. I will not go into detail about what was corrected in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1524	Yes, I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1529	But in all of the big messages I've made, it's been normal for you to sit around until last night and change things on the basis of different recordings you've received.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1534	Question 12 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1548	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-09.ana.ud154e1562	This question has been withdrawn. Case No. 3, Unit, has already been processed. Thus, the ordinary questionnaire over and today’s maps have been finalised. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
