ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e192	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 15 June to 17 June to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Venice of the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative of Sonja Mandt on 15 and 16 June to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council of Vilnius On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Hordaland: Torkil ÅlandFor the county of Vestfold: Heidi Ørnlo
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e225	Torcil Åmland and Heidi Ørnlo are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e241	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4863]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e257	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers for each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e268	It has been an interesting task to be the case rapporteur for the Barents Sea Management Plan, a matter of Christian People's Party is very concerned about, and we feel that we have many shares in. The Bondevik II Government provided the basis for the work on the overall management plan for both the Barents Sea and other Norwegian sea regions through St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002, clean and rich seas. Sustainable development has always been a key objective of this work. The content of the plan we are discussing can briefly be summarized into a lot of subjects and little policy. I would venture to argue that politics only comes to light when a voter takes political interests ahead of professional advice. This I will come back to later in the article. Following the presentation of the management plan in 2006, additional knowledge needs have been met. One has concentrated in particular on the mapping of seabeds, seabirds and geology. The largest efforts have been directed towards the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja as well as the area of Eggakanten. These areas were selected in 2006 because they were of interest to the petroleum industry, while being identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. No new knowledge has emerged to suggest changing the status of the sites identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable in 2006. High environmental value in the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas has been further confirmed and strengthened by the knowledge acquisition we have carried out since 2006. This includes the areas outside Lofoten, the Western Seabed, the Troms Coast, the Egga Edge and 50 km of coastal belt outside Finnmark. I would like to stress that the new knowledge presented in the Communication provides a basis for maintaining the conclusion that the overall environmental status of the Barents Sea and Lofoten is essentially good. The derogation applies to seabirds, how many populations have experienced a strong decline in the last decade. There is a large majority in the Committee that supports the failure to open up an impact study in the Lofoten and the West Pole during this majorisation period. However, the further acquisition of knowledge in the area warns of rapid rematches, and on behalf of the Christian People's Party I can tell that we are prepared to defend cod, seabird and vulnerable coastal areas also in new rounds. So I want to go back to what I suggested earlier, that political considerations are put ahead of professional considerations. As mentioned above, no new knowledge has emerged to suggest changing the status of those areas identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable in 2006. The Government’s decision to remove the increased emission requirements currently applicable to the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea does not provide any professional justification for changing and it appears to be a purely political review of professional advice. The strict emission requirements for the Barents Sea were implemented by the Government of Bondevik II of St.meld. No 38 for 2003–04, and they then represented — and until today — a significant increase in relation to the requirements otherwise applicable on the continental shelf. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the SV and the Centre are forming a major coalition together with the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party in what must be called a real environmental self-objection. The Christian People's Party is therefore promoting today's proposal that the increased emission requirements for the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea should be maintained as they are today. We are also amazed that the government, without professional justification, restricts the belt in the coastal zone along Troms and Finnmark, where new petroleum activities from 50 km to 35 km should not be permitted, as a new frontier. Here, too, the new Grand Coalition meets and adopts policies contrary to professional advice – the professional advice we have obtained since the last round here in the Chamber. The Communication explicitly states that no new knowledge has emerged that suggests changing the status of these areas. Here, policies have taken precedence over trades and a management plan that should be professionally based. It tells a lot. I take this up with me the proposals of the Christian People's Party that are distributed in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e296	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e301	The Christian People's Party is engaged in local business development and jobs throughout the country, according to which their politicians both centrally and locally carry orders. Now the Christian People's Party was involved in launching a work on the present management plan. What is it that makes the Christian People's Party not want to wait and look at the results of this extensive work before they concluded that they do not want such activities in the Lofoten and the West Pole?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e308	The Christian People's Party has exactly the same wording in this magnification period as we had in the previous magnification period, and as we worked out from when we had the management plan for treatment here in 2006. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the oil and gas business be moved northwards and that we get the ring effects northwards. But the Christian People's Party is also clear that there are some vulnerable areas – we're talking about the vulnerable areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. For the Christian People's Party, they are so vulnerable that we do not want there to be petroleum activity there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e318	The sea areas outside of Lofoten and in the Barents Sea are some of the most vulnerable and valuable nature we have. In the region, much of the industry is related to the use of sea and marine resources, both at sea and below sea level. When the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten was adopted in 2006, it was decided that the plan should be updated in 2010. It's this update we're now discussing here. The update is based on the professional basis obtained by the Ministry of Environment. This update has been among the most controversial issues we are dealing with in this session, and we have dealt with a good deal of controversial issues in this session. However, the discussion on updating the management plan has been balanced between different industries and between industry and the environment. In many ways, therefore, the management plan is also typical of part of the debates we have had in our committee. The management plan lays down the framework for industrial activities in the region — for tourism, for fisheries and aquaculture, for shipping and for petroleum activities. The relationship between these different considerations and the balances between them has led to a lot of debate and high temperature. I am very pleased that the management plan has been so good, and that the government has met so many of the considerations that need to be taken into account. The management plan takes into account the creation of business and growth in the region, while taking into account the environment. The up-to-date technical basis for the management plan has provided us with a good framework for discussion within. The work done is formidable. We have gained new knowledge of the seabed through the MAREANO programme, we have increased knowledge of seabirds and collected geological data through seismic shooting. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that the management of our sea areas is carried out in a professionally sound manner, on the best possible basis of decision. That is why I am pleased that the government of the revised national budget has strengthened the efforts of the MAREANO programme and the acquisition of seismic data. I'm not going to go into details about the professional basis, but I'm still going to draw out some central moments from the monitoring of the state of the environment, because there's some cutting in the sea. There is a decline in the population of seabirds, the marine climate is changing, and some cell and fish species have a negative development. We have to take that seriously. Nevertheless, it is as follows: The Barents Sea is a clean and rich sea. The large fish stocks are in good condition. The management plan area has essentially a low level of pollution. The greatest environmental risk in the area today is related to ship transport and ship emissions. The Arctic environment is vulnerable, and oil emitted by any loss here will lie for a long time. Oil emissions from shipping may, in the worst case, lead to significant and long-term damage. Regional economic development is a central objective of the Workers' Party. We want to use the whole country, and we want it to facilitate development and growth throughout Norway. The management plan is about business development. We want to bet on fishing, on aquaculture, on tourism, and we want to continue the petroleum industry in North Norway. All these objectives require long-term knowledge-based management. That is what this management plan provides. The petroleum industry is important for Norway. 200,000 people work in or are closely related to this industry, and we get big money into the single fund every year from the oil and gas business. Petroleum industry has given many here in the country both roof over the head and food on the table. Petroleum activities in the north can therefore have major ring-effects, both locally and across the country. The debate on the management plan focuses a great deal on areas outside the Lofoten and the West. It is then important to stress that other major and, in part, larger areas in the Barents Sea are suitable for oil and gas activities. The large oil and gas found in the Skrugard field provides very good reason for optimism. The updated management plan opens up new activity in the following areas: In the divisional area, the government has announced that there will be an impact assessment, for the purpose of extraction throughout the area west of the demarcation line. The government has already launched seismic shooting in the area. In the coastal zone along Troms and Finnmark, which is a 15 km wide and promising belt that has until now been closed, petroleum activities will be opened. The same applies to Tromsøflaket – a 15 km wide and promising belt, which has been closed until now, is open to petroleum activities. The edge of the egg is opened for petroleum activity. On Jan Mayen, the government has announced that seismics will be launched from 2012, with a view to granting extraction permits. I have to say that I am very pleased that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is also going to make a knowledge acquisition of petroleum-related conditions outside the Lofoten and the Vestral, which you can use if you want – and put it into an impact assessment programme, if any, after 2013. The solution we have now come up with keeps a good pace in the process ahead. Northern countries VI and VII and Troms II are promising areas for petroleum activities — in particular Northern Ireland VI. Then it is important to stress that Northern VI is already largely open, and that activity in these areas can start in 2013, if it turns out to be desirable. The development of Hammerfest shows that petroleum activity in the north can have major local ring effects. The Labour Party has a proud history of facilitating industry and business. We are a party working for jobs and for an active industrial policy. So far, 250,000 jobs have been created with our government, and two out of three of them have come into the private sector. In ours we again saw the importance of good oil protection, when the Icelandic thinker "Godafoss" went underground outside the whales in Eastfold. The greatest environmental threat in the Lofoten and the Barents Sea is just such accidents in shipping. Oil protection is therefore essential in order to secure these marine areas. I am very pleased that there has been a broad consensus in the Committee that oil protection is very important in these areas. The government has strengthened oil protection in recent years. In North Norway today there is a lot of activity in the field of oil protection. I believe that there is a lot of room for North Norway to be a leader in the country, and in the world, within this field. The Government has set up a National Oil Preparedness Forum to coordinate its work. I want to underline how important it is to build on the expertise available on the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. The establishment of a national oil protection centre in Finnmark is therefore very positive. For the Workers' Party, it is important to facilitate an active business in the region, related to travel life. Travel life is a great industry that employs many in northern Norway, and that gives great value. It is important to take care of the natural environment that has given us this opportunity for economic development. I feel that the management plan that is now here offers good opportunities for travel in the future. This management plan provides a good framework for economic development and nature protection outside the Lofoot and in the Barents Sea. The Labour Party's policy is about industrial development and regional ring-effects, and our policy is about preserving our environmental values. I believe that this management plan balances very well between environmental concerns and industry concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e393	It's going to be line change. The President can see nothing because of the rear light. Mr Solvik-Olsen and Siri A. Meling have apparently asked for the floor in reply. Sorry, but there is so much light behind me that I only see a profile – it is nice to be described as a profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e400	One shall not be surprised that it shines through the Progress Party. But the computer system didn't open to press the replica button, so we didn't get a registration. I am very pleased that the representative Sund places so much emphasis on the oil industry, and mentions it so positively. But it's a bit from word to action when one doesn't dare to move on, and say that one will make an impact assessment. Everyone knows that this is due to the internal conflicts of the government, where the Labour Party does not dare to do what the majority in this Chamber believes is right. When one still talks about how much one can get in 2013, it sounds very good, because then an open to oil business in Northern Ireland VI, because there are already parts of the impact assessment, and one can take the knowledge that one is now collecting, cutting and pasting right into a impact assessment, and thus have done the job anyway. At the same time, we know that Eirin Sund should go to the elections on a red-green option, where SV should be involved. Then I think a debtor to make both the Storting and the voters aware: Does Eirin Sund believe that in 2013 SV suddenly and automatically with a magic pressure will vote for an impact assessment to be carried out outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e409	What we're going to vote on in 2013 is, of course, a red-green option, and I think it's winning. Then we'll have to decide what should be on the table then – in the possible new Soria Moria III. But I must nevertheless say to the representative Solvik-Olsen that if he and his party were to come to the government offices, the likelihood is great that they can bring with them the Left and Christian People's Party. So what Solvik-Olsen is going to say to his voters in Rogaland, and as I'm going to say to mine, is that it's pretty uncertain – perhaps in any case – what the possible partners we have are going to land on. What is also important for the Workers' Party is that Soria Moria said that we should decide on the impact assessment. I'm not going to put myself under the chair that in the Workers' Party it was a large majority for impact assessment. The government landed on that one should have knowledge acquisition, and for us it was important that it was done under the direction of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and that it was a knowledge that it might be relevant to use, if one wishes, in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e417	Then the system should have come to work and register those who are asking for a reply. The next representative is Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e422	I record that the representative Sund says that there was a large majority in the Workers' Party's Group for an impact assessment, but nevertheless gave one more for the pressure from SV and actually allows SV to control large parts of Norwegian oil policy. My question to the Sund representative is: What is left of the credibility of the Petroleum Policy of the Workers' Party? What is left of the credibility of the Workers' Party's district policy? The representative Sund was concerned about how important the petroleum industry is to feed on the table and work for people, for example. in the districts. Shouldn't the Lofoten and Vestralen areas be allowed to participate in this? What is left of the credibility of the Industrial Policy of the Workers' Party when they allow them to control what is the country's most remote industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e429	Now there are three batches in the government and all three batches shall be taken into account when making the decisions. It has been at the bottom all the way that it should not be opened up to oil activities during this large-scale period. Everyone knows that, and we even made that choice. The working party is not so concerned with what it's called. The working party is concerned about how things become if you get done it a shell. In this context, there has been no impact assessment; it has become a yes to knowledge acquisition that one can use if one wishes it after 2013. There is nothing that has been on the table that has promised you would be able to do anything before that. Then I have to remind the representative Meling that in these two periods as the government has been sitting in the offices and has had a majority on the Stortinget, there has been a formidable activity in the petroleum sector as well. I have to remind you that we have created 250,000 new jobs, and two out of three of them have been in the private sector. So when it comes to both what we've done, and what I'm going to tell us in the next four years, I'm proud to announce what we've done, and what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e438	The Christian People's Party supports the government's refusal to investigate the consequences outside the Lofoten and the West. However, in the run-up to this roll-out of the management plan, the Oil Directorate has had some visions of the future. Aplan Viak estimated that the expansion of fields in line with these futures could increase employment in North Norway by between 4000 and 6000 persons employed in the period up to 2043. But what comes out in these calculations is that the largest activity will be in the northernmost part of North Norway. It's mainly because it's where we see the largest resources. My challenge to the government, represented by the Sund representative, is: why is it so much pressure to get impact assessment outside of Lofoten and the West Pole that is not the northernmost part of North Norway, but perhaps the most vulnerable, in view of the fact that we would rather have focused northwards and dropped the vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e447	In my post, I stressed that there has been a lot of focus on the Lofoten and the West Pole, but I paid particular attention to the fact that perhaps some of the largest and best areas of petroleum activity are further north than the Lofoten and the West Pole, namely in the Barents Sea. That is why the government has also decided to investigate the impact of the Barents Sea South, which is why we are making a lot more active in order to give the petroleum industry areas that are interesting. That is why, as Solvik-Olsen's representative says, we have also put the Lofoten and the Vesterål in the sense that we want more knowledge precisely because it is a vulnerable area. At the same time, however, it is also not possible to conceal that a person wants that knowledge, because it is a great wish from parts of the Nordic region even to have an impact assessment whether it is possible to make use of the resources that are also known outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. However, we should not decide on this until the impact assessment is completed. Then you have to say yes or no to the Lofoten and the Vestral.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e454	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e457	Let me start by addressing the proposal on which the Progress Party agrees, that an impact assessment be carried out outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. It gives the workers' party representatives who will later in this debate boast of how offensive they are, an opportunity to actually vote in line with what they argue for – and not speak one language, but do something completely different. The management plan is important. It's important to have an overall approach to how we manage our land and sea areas. Everyone agrees. In these areas we are talking about here, fisheries, local industry, shipping, tourism and petroleum are important industries for the population. It should still be in the future. We think it's nice to combine this in a good way. One must take into account both environmental, business and outdoor interests. It is important that one performs the survey of seabirds and seabeds with which one has started, controls the fish population and maintains the aesthetic values. So this is a good way to do it, we mean. That is why, in our remarks, in the debate in this Chamber and in the debate on society, we stress, not least, that this must be a management and development plan, not a management and protection plan. The reason why I stress this is that we have the debate on the Norwegian Sea Management Plan in mind, where today's Environment Minister has repeatedly been injured to say what he really meant about what that management plan is, and that was calling it a protection plan. It is not for the benefit of the population living in the areas that we are discussing today. The management plan must allow the region to harvest the resources it has. This area we're talking about is very different geographically. In some parts, there's growth, in other parts, there's dislocation. Not least those parts that are being moved away must feel that the management plan is working for them, and not for any further deportation from these areas. We must ensure that the management plan creates optimism, maintains and increases the housing and business rates. Part of it is that it should be more attractive for not only individuals to be able to find a job, but for families. Knowing that you can take your spouse and that both get attractive jobs, not just one, it's an important part of making people live somewhere, and not having to move to more central areas. In this context, fishing is important. It must be managed in a long-term and good manner. One must ensure profitable jobs and it is important to try to develop the industry to further process more of its own raw material locally. Similarly, the petroleum industry is important. In parts of this area, the management plan is good for the petroleum industry, in line with the wishes of the Advance Party. The division line conflict has been resolved. The government has been commended for that, and it deserves it. I'm also very pleased, and a little surprised, that one has come so quickly into the process of seismic shooting in these areas. The government should be very grateful for that. It is important, because it gives a signal that there is no plan of closure the government is working on in terms of oil – there is SV a little parked, thank you and price – but there is an offensive plan in these areas. Jan Mayen got it bragged off. Then I'm a little bit more at the well-stage. I have nothing against finding oil and gas on Jan Mayen, but there is no logic in that one should go as far away from the country as possible and work inwards. It's more natural that one works from where one is, and beyond. That is why Jan Mayen still sees himself as more of a brawl for the oil and energy minister than a real matter that is really in line with what the oil industry and the Ministry of Oil and Energy think makes sense. It is important that these developments in the petroleum industry also have ring-fenced effects on land, both because it is involved and contributes to the creation of value and wealth on land, and because it creates greater acceptance and legitimacy for that industry. What has happened in Hammerfest should be an inspiration for everyone in this room. Seeing the big ringing effects, and what kind of optimism and positivity prevail in that part of North Norway, is really inspiring, and I'm enjoying several places in North Norway to experience the same thing. I, who come from Rogaland, know how much good the oil industry can bring without a running around with dirty oil barrels and oil on the beaches. Let me call it a blessing to the part of the country. What is worrying is that the government chooses to keep Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja outside this company. Once again, the Workers' Party is postponing a decision on an impact assessment – once again. In 2006, the government released it. In 2011, they're postponing it. It is worth mentioning to the representatives of Stroem, Arnesen and others who are going to use this pulpit to boast about the importance of impact assessment, that there is no reason to believe that the red-green parties, if they are still in a collective, will have a different opinion in 2013 than they do now. There is no reason to believe that the representative Serigstad Valen will suddenly argue strongly for an impact assessment which he has argued against for four years. It suggests that the knowledge that the government boasts will not be able to materialize in an impact assessment if today's regime continues. It's worth noting to the voters. Why does one boast that the knowledge to be acquired can be cut straight into an impact assessment? Well, because a person obviously sees that an impact assessment is the reasonable thing to do. Is it not, then, the easiest way to carry out the impact assessment and then take the decision afterwards, whether a desired petroleum activity and in what areas? The problem is that the red-greens can't because they're paralysed. Why is this important? Someone will claim that now we have found the Skrugard field, or the Sverdrup field, a little depending on who gets to decide the name in this country. Then one has to be careful with that. Then one has started seismic shooting in the new Norwegian areas, and then one has to be careful with it. I also think it is important to try to further develop the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, simply because you think there are resources there. Even the Minister of Oil and Energy points out that Norway has a responsibility to deliver oil and gas to the world. It's part of the big government energy policy, and, say most of the government system, it's part of climate policy. Then I think it shows that you should take responsibility. However, it is probably so important for these local regions that they are allowed to compete for jobs, so that when a new supplier industry is established, they consider themselves to be established in Lofoten, the West Pole and around Senja as in the north and south where it is open to business. The challenge here is that if the Lofoten gets all the way into deficits, the business cluster establishes itself elsewhere in North Norway, and you don't get any new jobs of significance in the areas we're talking about here. You get employment in North Norway, but it's not in Lofoten and the West. Nor do you get the same acceptance for opening up oil and gas activities off the coast. It should not least concern the Workers' Party, which gives the impression that they think the oil and gas activities are important. I also see it as a mistrust of the oil industry when one says that one does not have a solution to all the problems today, and therefore one should not carry out an impact assessment either. An impact assessment shall be able to precisely identify and document any challenges that may arise and to impose requirements on the oil industry to meet those requirements. The Energy and Environment Committee has been in England and seen how one does it there. BP is allowed to extract oil and gas at Wytch Farm, in an area with many nature reserves around. They have done so in such a way that the population is satisfied, the oil company is satisfied, and natural and environmental interests are taken care of. There's no reason why we shouldn't be able to do the same thing here. If that means that there are near land deposits of oil and gas that mean that you don't want any drilling operations on the coast, it's possible to demand drilling from land. We have to be able to discuss such things, but then we have to have an impact assessment to discuss it from. Now this discussion is being put on ice because the government is not dealing with it yet. The same applies to oil protection. I am very pleased with the oil protection competence that is in the region, and we should try to develop it further. That is also stated in the comments. But if they also have a larger home market, then their own backyard is part of it. They should have all the prerequisites for developing a product that is adapted to a good HMS approach to any new off-shore oil activity in Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II. However, it is also important that they feel that they can be involved in designing their own industrial projects, their own projects in which they develop local industrial infrastructure based on their ability to harvest energy resources and take them to land, for example. use them in a gas plant or in a protein waste – all sorts of things that other parts of Norway can discuss, but that the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja are not allowed by the government because they are unable to reach an internal agreement. That's regrettable, but in 2013 another government will do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e492	After all, it is no secret that the Advance Party was ready to open the Lofoten and the West Pole for petroleum activities several years ago. And in the 2009 election campaign, after debate, the impression was given that this could be opened almost immediately if the Progress Party won the election and came to power. "If we can start working on a 100-day impact assessment, we will," said Siv Jensen. Then it is tempting to ask the Progress Party about the outcome of the impact investigation that the party is proposing today would have been totally irrelevant because it has been so clearly stated that it should only be run on in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e497	No, impact assessment will not be irrelevant. But what the Progress Party communicates, and the Workers' Party is unable to communicate, is that we want to try to exploit oil and gas resources outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja, just as we want to try to extract on the rest of the coast. But then it is the impact assessment that is to make demands and that is to set the criteria for proper action. It may mean that on some parts of the base there will be stricter requirements than elsewhere. This may mean that in some parts it will take longer before the oil industry is able to meet the requirements that are then in a way becoming a natural postponement. Then it's not because a political person says it, but because the industry itself needs more time to develop that knowledge. I believe it is important to try to extract those oil and gas resources. Sometimes the Workers' Party also says the same thing, but when they sit in this government system, they become unfortunately paralysed for action, and then they get a question like this. An impact assessment is not a blank mandate, but an impact assessment is a statement of willingness – if we can call it that – so that some of these oil and gas resources should try to extract.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e504	As the representative Marthinsen pointed out, the Progress Party announced long before the technical basis of the management plan had been presented that they wanted to open up oil activities in Lofoten and the West Pole in Northern Ireland VI and VII, and Troms II. It was finished and finished. I then wonder how the representative Solvik-Olsen believes it is in conjunction with the precautionary principle to finally decide to open up oil operations in these areas until an updated technical basis has been found. One thing is to be against oil business because you don't want to take the risk and because you want to bet on other industries, but the risk you're running by opening up is a completely different one, and I would like to hear the opinion of Solvik-Olsen's representative. So I also have to ask: what makes the Progress Party point out exactly the most vulnerable sea areas to open, both in view of the vulnerability of coastal areas and in view of the fact that the occurrences there together are actually less than what is left in Ekofisk?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e512	The last statement is just one statement. It's an estimate. The estimates from the Ministry of Oil and Energy indicate that there may be a terrible lot more than what is left in Ekofisk, but it may also be completely empty. But the probability is that there are values for at least 500 billion. NOK there, and I believe that as a nation we are not so rich that 500 billion. kr is uninteresting to discuss. Then the representative Serigstad Valen takes this up with how the Progress Party can say that we are in favour of an impact assessment before we have looked at the up-to-date technical basis. With that logic, one should never have opened up the Ecofisk once, because there was no management plan for the North Sea when one started to allow drilling there. With that approach, we had never started on the oil business adventure we have today, because it's precisely because we have 40 years of experience saying that by making demands, one will also be able to do this in a good and sound way. Then you don't have to have a management plan at the bottom that has given all the answers, because the answers you feel you need to get, you get to make demands in the impact assessment that those issues are to be addressed. So an impact assessment will give the answers Serigstad Valen wants, regardless of whether you have the management plan at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e519	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e522	The updating of the management plan for the marine environment in the Barents Sea and beyond Lofoten is a comprehensive and important document. The aim is to facilitate a balanced development in which we take advantage of the opportunities offered by sea areas for value creation, while at the same time doing so within a sustainable framework that takes account of the ecosystem-based management that is also the Right behind. The Bondevik II government presented what was then the world's first marine environmental report, namely St.meld. No 12 for 2001–02 Clean and rich seas, and thereby introduced an integrated ecosystem-based approach to the management of our marine areas. The management plans have come as a follow-up, and they have been good tools to see both value creation and nature considerations in a comprehensive perspective. It is gratifying that the environmental status of these marine areas is described as being essentially good, although for some species there is a more demanding situation. This applies to some fish species and to seabirds. The causality of these species’ challenges is partly not fully elucidated. The large fish stocks are in good condition, and this shows that good administrative action has been taken both in terms of taxation and in terms of the control regime and in terms of cooperation with, among other things. Russia. There is a great deal of excitement in the sea areas covered by this management plan. This applies not least in the largest and most important industry in Norway, namely the petroleum sector. Statoil recently made a discovery on Skrugard in the Barents Sea, and this has been found in many ways to give new hope and inspiration to renewed optimism as to what these marine areas may contain from petroleum resources. The agreement between Norway and Russia on the split-line issue also contributed to increased optimism in the area, and it is positive that the Oil Directorate has warned that within a few weeks they will undertake seismic collection in this area in order to identify the resource potential with regard to possible oil and gas deposits. It is good that Norway comes early and that in this way we can contribute to setting environmental and safety standards in this area. An important question related to this update of the management plan was whether an impact assessment on oil and gas activity in the Lofoten and the West Pole areas should be initiated. The right is disappointed that the government, and perhaps in particular the Workers' Party, does not want an impact assessment during the current ageing period and rather addresses so-called knowledge acquisition on these issues. Why is the Right Disappointed? The right has a clear policy in this area. We welcome a petroleum activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. An impact assessment for us is more a question of how the areas should be opened and what requirements should be made in this respect. Norwegian oil production has fallen from the peak of 2001. Since then, production has fallen by about 45 pst. At the same time, gas production is expected to fall from 2020. Therefore, the pursuit of new findings must be stepped up, primarily by opening up new search areas. So if we can't get new gas finds, the volumes of gas produced from Norwegian base will decrease as early as 2020. In these days, Europe is putting its strategies in the field of energy. The accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant has caused large countries in Europe to decide to shut down their core production or not to implement planned projects. This implies that the most important of our markets will have major energy needs in the future. And although the growth of renewable production will be present, the need for Norwegian gas is also likely to increase as climate emissions from this type of energy production are less than half of the emissions produced from coal. If the EU is to dare to invest in further use of gas in relation to its own security of supply, they must have a certain degree of security of supply in a long-term perspective. Unfortunately, the government's postponement of the issue of impact assessment and the opening of the Lofoten and Vestralen areas sends a signal in the wrong direction. There is no evidence of a government that, in action, wants to send a clear signal to the EU that Norway will be able to deliver on gas for decades to come. This regrets the Right. For industry too, an impact assessment and the opening up of the areas would be a positive signal. In fact, no new areas have been laid out since 1994. We have defined from the right some main challenges for Norwegian petroleum policy in the future. The first of these is to ensure the industry access to new, attractive areas. The sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea are defined as attractive areas. The Oil Directorate has also estimated resources to be significant through seismic collection. We believe that an oil and gas activity can be combined in terms of both the environment and other groups of users of the sea, whether fisheries, travel or other activities. New technological solutions often contribute to this, so that we are more concerned with making demands on this activity. So the different companies will be able to come up with solutions that satisfy these requirements. A special challenge in these areas is coastal location and partly a narrow base. Area conflict with the fishing industry must be taken seriously, and it may be especially in periods of seismic collection that this problem is the greatest. The right considers that this needs to be resolved by strict requirements for the periods during which seismic collection may take place and by imposing a coordinated collection. In seismic collection, the level of conflict is often highest in relation to the fishing industry. For this reason, cooperation and action are among other things. Oil and Fisheries Directorates have worked together by training fishermen to improve their skills, making important contributions to reducing the level of conflict between these two industries. The right is also disappointed on behalf of the county. The region of Lofoten and the Westphalia is a region that is generally characterised by a decline in population and which is gradually facing major demographic challenges. Right wants to help this region make use of its oil and gas resources for local and regional ring-effects. This will give new optimism in the area, and the youth will have the opportunity to find interesting jobs in their community in a different way from what is happening today. Today's deferral tactics hit the region unnecessarily. The Committee on Energy and the Environment was recently on a committee mission in Lofoten and the West. There were questions about why the property prices in Blackland were surprisingly high. The answer was to dare to invest in new housing because the population is uncertain about the future, i.e. whether there will be oil and gas activity in the area or not. If it becomes petroleum activity, the dry population invests. If it does not become this type of activity, the population will not invest in this community through the long-term investment a house project is actually. It is clear to the right that we want local and regional ring-effects as a result of opening it up to petroleum activity in these areas. We have previously proposed a 5 billion fund, or infrastructure fund. NOK, and in the current year's budget we proposed to allocate SEK 200 million. kr for the development of skills and suppliers, precisely to help the economic operators in this area have the opportunity to take advantage of a petroleum activity. Various reports have been submitted on the potential local and regional ring-effects of a petroleum activity. I would like to highlight the so-called industrial sketch of Statoil which, in my opinion, goes a long way in promising both landing, land-based activity, local jobs and large revenues to the different municipalities. Some people will claim that these are loose ideas, but I believe that after experiencing the ring-effects of the Snow White project, and now later Goliath, we have had for the Hammerfest area, this testifies to the fact that petroleum activity provides opportunities in a nearby area. We also want to be able to offer local communities in the Lofoten and the West. In addition, the Norwegian State has large revenues from this sector. The development of the oil and gas resources in the area will also generate large revenues for the country and for the further development of the welfare society. One final point is that activity may suggest that the infrastructure from the Norwegian Sea is extended northwards and can represent an important contribution on the road to infrastructure interconnection right up to the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e565	In the management plan process, the right has gone very high on the track and required an impact assessment. Often they have criticized the Workers' Party in this context. We heard it at the latest in this article from Meling. But I would like to remind the representative Meling that, in his last term of government, the Right was not that active at all. In the Bondevik II government, the Right was combined with the Christian People's Party and the Left – and they are not the biggest petroleum-friendly parts of the world. What is the reason why the Right has a different opinion about oil extraction in the north now than they had when they were in government? This government has made good progress in the oil and gas industry. There's never been more activity on the socket than now. We see both an oil industry and a supplier industry that is in good growth. I believe that the government in the management plan has committed to a gradual development of the oil industry in the north. In my opinion, this management plan is a major step for the oil industry in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e572	The right is absolutely manageable in these areas. We also showed that through cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left under Bondevik II. One of the first things that the government did was to open up to the Snow White expansion. We all know what the ringing effects this has had for the Hammerfest region, for Finnmark and for the northern part of the country. When we treated the Snow White extension, it was estimated that the local ring effects would be about 500 million. kr. Those who were skeptical about this expansion said this was far too much estimated. Now we know the story afterwards, that the local and regional ring-effects have been in the billions class. So the Right has nothing to be ashamed of in relation to our history during Bondevik II, on the contrary. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we showed that we could control a development even in the case of petroleum resources in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e579	A common denominator for most RIA reports made, both in the context of the management plan and also implemented by independent ones, is that the estimates of local ring effects, jobs and revenues are much lower than those made by some politicians and parts of the oil industry during this debate. One fascinating example is how Statoil continued to promise as many thousands of jobs as the likely estimates for oil spills in the area were adjusted downwards and downwards. That's interesting. Then it is that the Statoil report, to which the representative of Meling is aiming, is based, insofar as I read it, that Statoil is awarded all the licences in the areas. If not, Statoil cannot guarantee landing facilities both here and there and all the ring-effects, as they do. Then my simple question is: What guarantees does the representative Meling have that Statoil would have the control of all the licenses in a possible opening of Nordland VI and VII and Troms II?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e586	That's not the relationship that the representative has. But whether it is Statoil or other companies that are given the opportunity to develop these areas, this industrial sketch from Statoil provides an overview of what might be thought of as local and regional ring-effects. I would again like to point out the good development that has been in the Hammerfest area. Hammerfest can be compared in many ways with the Awaken in relation to the starting point they had in the population before Snow White. We see that Hammerfest has had a strong increase in its population development, while The Awake has gone the opposite way. We see that the desire for establishment is great in the Hammerfest area, that it has had major ring-effects both in terms of jobs and in terms of income to the municipality and value creation in the region. And we have no reason to believe that the same thing is also going to apply to the Lofoten and the Westphalian areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e591	The central party is against an impact assessment when it relates to the regions of Northland VI and VII and of Troms II. The argument has been that this is part of an opening process, as we see it. So the argument from the Right and others around the country is that this is about a knowledge acquisition, and why is such a fear of new knowledge. So I'm listening to the representative Meling's posts, where she says very clearly what she's putting in a consistent statement. So there's not a question about opening the areas, but how to open them, and what requirements to set when opening them. Do I understand that the representative Meling agrees in the view of the Central Party on consistency, that it is simply part of an opening process?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e596	An impact assessment does not necessarily have to be part of an opening process, but it turns out in some cases that it is. The representative Sande knows just as well as I do that one has also had impact assessments and has not opened up activity in the areas that are impact-examined. Now I think the view of the Centre Party in this matter is somewhat strange in relation to the value potential, the jobs and the revenues that an oil and gas activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole could have represented for these communities. From my side, I don't see anything that could be close to representing the same potential. But I hope that the Center Party has some good alternatives, since they go high on the track and are themselves a consequence assessment of these areas at the Lofoten and the West Pole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e603	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e607	This is one of the biggest and most important issues we are dealing with in our field during this period. Centrally in the bets of the red-green government is the north-area bet, which is constantly given great attention, and which has managed to arouse much debate. The management plan regime provides great predictability and is a great symbol of the knowledge-based approach we have developed to the management of our vast seas. Technological development, our long experience of using marine resources, the expertise we have developed in offshore oil activities, and not least the opportunities we have today to map large areas of high precision, provide a much better basis than ever before to facilitate good management of these marine areas. SV is very satisfied with the plan presented by the government. The government has made a great effort to acquire knowledge, process it and translate it into conclusions. And these are important conclusions, including: that we should not open the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja to oil activities. It was last year's big debate, and it went between environmental protection organisations and a great public commitment on the one hand and a powerful oil industry on the other. Thousands of people have been engaged in the debate for several years. A broad popular action locally anchored and well managed set the agenda. And it was necessary, because in many eyes, our very vulnerable areas in Northland VI and VII and Troms II were almost already open when it became clear that the government would update the management plan for the Lofoten, the Western Sea and the Barents Sea. The oil industry has spent a lot of resources convincingly arguing to open up these areas, and some of these campaigns may have worked better than the oil lobby itself has thought, because as the debate progressed, there were more and more people who almost began to see North Norway as a developing country, with no values, no future and no jobs, if you didn't open up to extract every drop of oil that needed to be found there. This excludes the incredibly important jobs already in North Norway, which are unique. Consider, for example: on fishing in Lofoten, for which Norway has a more than a thousand years tradition, and which would be put at direct risk by oil activities in those areas. If the technical basis for the management plan and the debate followed shows us, it is that this part of the country is rich in excellent opportunities if they are properly managed. The fishing resources are enormous and can be eternal. Renewable energy opportunities are huge, and Hydra Tidal's activity in Lofoten is one of many examples of it. Travel life is also growing rapidly. In fact, it is one of the most stable and growing industries in the country, including through the financial crisis. And with good bets and further professionalization, like the industry itself, growth can grow even bigger and give even more jobs. I am pleased that the bulk of the population says that the risk of opening up oil in these areas is so great that it is not worth it. And it's illustrative that every time a crowd refuses to open the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja to oil companies, the Right Party and the Advance Party call it a postponement. That means that a decision, after the definition of the word by the Party of Advancement and the Right, is only made if it is in line with the Right and the Advancement Party actually means. Everything else is a postponement – I see the representative Meling nodding. Today is a happy day. Therefore, the smile does not go to the representative Meling. This management plan is a good plan for North Norway – for fishermen, for the thousands of local activists who have been in charge of their community, and for the environmental movement that celebrates. The negativity of the right-wing opposition and the attempt to split up today's debate is a good indicator that what we are adopting today is right. The decision today provides room for further action on food projects that have had to wait while politicians have been arguing about oil drilling. It gives the fishing industry a predictability it needs, and it is an important signal that the oil industry cannot count on access in all the areas it points to, but that environmental, fish and other industries and jobs should also be taken into account. This is probably the third time a government decides not to open these areas, and that's the third time the Storting gives its connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e626	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e629	The Progress Party believes it makes sense to take an impact assessment, because we have declared a willingness to try to extract the oil and gas resources. Then it is that an impact assessment will determine the content, requirements and everything the oil industry has to face to ensure that oil, fisheries, shipping, tourism and all this can live in good harmony. So there's a lot of workers in this room that gives the impression that now we're going to pick up knowledge, but in 2013, it's between the lines, the Workers' Party can also do an impact assessment, with a red-green government. I ask for a simple answer from the representative Serigstad Valen: does the representative see that, if they continue in a government after 2013, suddenly and magically will turn in this position and be for an impact assessment, and allow it to happen in a red-green government? Or will the representative Serigstad Valen contribute to SV maintaining their position for six years and ready to win twice?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e638	It is worth noting that when the government refers to the previously contested areas of the management plan submitted, an impact assessment to be carried out there is mentioned for the purpose of opening. I therefore believe that the debate we have had for a long time on whether or not an impact assessment is part of an opening process, as concluded, and that it is for the purpose of opening. I believe that the representative of Solvik-Olsen also agrees. And then the experience shows us, a little independent of the large number we have, that the Storting sees it as the best decision is not to open the areas outside of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja for oil drilling, because they are very vulnerable areas. If you're going to open new areas, it's better to do it in other fields that are not as vulnerable. I can't see that situation going to change in 2013. The only exception would have to be if the Right Party and the Advance Party had a pure majority alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e645	The representative Serigstad Valen spoke of the fact that for the right-hand side, this management plan is only a postponement. But it's not just the right-hand side that's talking about it. Also the representative Sund said not only that in 2013 there will be an impact assessment, she also said that in 2013 we can actually open already impact-tested areas, if I interpreted her correctly. We have also heard representatives from Arnesen and Stroem – on a committee’s mission – about new petroleum activities outside the Lofoten and the West. I am sure that the voters of the representatives Sund, Arnesen and Stroem are also concerned with the answer to my question, namely: Give still red-green cooperation, will a vote to the Labour Party at the 2013 elections be a vote to the SV's oil policy in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e652	The fact that both lines to me go so far on metapolitics and not on the content of the management plan, I take as a sign that Environment Minister Erik Solheim and the government have done a very good job with it, when there are no other things to put their finger on. I believe that the best indicator of whether or not to open the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja is what the bulk of the population decides today. I then only recommend the representative of Astrup to be present during the voting and experience being voted down on whether or not to open the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja for oil drilling. I cannot pre-empt SV's future program processes. I see no reason for us to change our position on the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja. I cannot answer for the Labour Party or the Center Party – or Right, for that matter – but just note that SV promised that as long as we are in government, the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja will not be opened for oil drilling. That's how far we've kept that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e661	It's a happy day – the representative Serigstad Valen is very pleased. Environmental monitoring has been carried out with great precision. My question is precisely what the representative is concerned about. We've acquired knowledge since 2006. The new knowledge suggests that we should not change the status of the areas we considered vulnerable and very valuable in 2006. That's confirmed by that knowledge. Nevertheless, the government is changing the emission regime, from a particularly strict emission regime to a very common regime, despite the professional reasons we have spent money, forces and time to obtain since 2006. Where is the environmental survey with great precision here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e668	The environmental monitoring of this field is the responsibility of the Climate and Pollution Directorate. They recommended, as early as 2008, that no general requirements for zero emissions of water produced, boreholes and drilling fluids should be introduced on a Norwegian base. The zero-emission regime we introduced in the Barents Sea in 2003 was in line with the precautionary principle, which I strongly support. Since then, with the background of the business that has been going on in the Barents Sea, we have increased our knowledge of this business, and we have been given new information. Among other things, the government has decided to make a major overall assessment also related to the landfilling of land-based drilling sludge and the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the regime we have today. This is why the government has, among other things: on a professional basis, decided to amend that regime. Finally, I just have to add that I think it is illustrative that the Christian People's Party, which we agree with on the big lines of this case, complains today, while the environmental movement celebrates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e678	The administrator's mindset is strong in the Center Party. The resources on the Earth are not something we've been given to own for our generation, but something we manage on behalf of those who come after us. A management plan is a good way to follow such an overarching ideological approach. That's why the Center Party has been busy putting in place these kind of management plans for our marine areas and the possibility of regularly updating and revising them. The sea area from the Barents Sea to the Lofoten is large and forms a significant part of Norway's total area. It contains several valuable and vulnerable areas, as pointed out in the option. The Lofoten and West eel areas, the Egga edge and the coastal areas outside Troms and Finnmark are examples of such vulnerable areas. New knowledge has further confirmed these values. The survey of the major marine areas in the north shows that the sea is clean and it is rich. The degree of impurity is basically low, and the large fish stocks are in good condition. On the other hand, monitoring shows that the marine climate is changing. There is increasing acidification, increasing sea temperature and decreasing expansion of the sea ice. Most seabird populations are declining. We'll still need more knowledge about these developments and what's behind them. But we have to manage at the same time based on the knowledge we have today. The government has pointed out that the main challenges in the period up to 2020 are long-distance pollution, climate change and marine acidification, decline in marine bird populations, management of the risk of acute oil pollution and further development of the links in ecosystem resource management. Many of the seabird populations show a worrying development, and it is necessary for us to understand the better relationship and interaction between reproduction and survival of the seabird species on one side and the pelagic fish species on the other. The large northern sea areas are not only valuable from a natural disaster perspective. We're taking huge resources out of this marine area in the form of fish and marine animals. There is increasing coastal aquaculture activity and there is increasing petroleum activity in this area. At the same time, the area is important, and will, after all, be much more important when it comes to transport. We do not yet know what future will bring when it concerns the extraction of mineral resources and the production of renewable energy in the area. Our challenge as administrators is to ensure that the use of resources and activity takes place with regard to the vulnerability of this area and within resilient frameworks. In particular, the increasing transport expected through the area is a major challenge, especially in view of the risk of oil spills. The focus on oil protection is therefore entirely central to the Centre Party. Not least is towboat capacity - mentioned in the setting - important, because we know that there is a critical factor in the occurrence of oil spills in areas with as difficult weather conditions as this area can have. Let me also add that the Central Party is satisfied with the government's decision not to implement the impact of petroleum slags in Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II. This is in line with the Central Party's position in this matter. We're talking here about vulnerable and important spawning and growing areas for fish, where these species of animals, after the central part's vision, are going to have their right to run, and we're happy that the government has concluded the same way. It has been a debate on value creation in the north. I thought for a while that debate would be one-sidedly linked to petroleum activity. So there's a huge potential in our northern regions in several areas. Let me take travel life and renewable energy as two examples. Then we have a very viable fishing industry in these areas on which we're going to build. So it's not like if not all of this area was to be opened up for petroleum activity, it means stagnation and decline. On the contrary, there is a great future for this area. The petroleum industry currently in the region shall provide local ring-effects. It's also important to underline from the Center Party's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e701	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e705	Erling Sande and the Center Party have clearly stated that they do not want to open Northland VI and VII and Troms II. At the same time, we know that Norway is a major supplier of energy to Europe, and we see that Germany is giving a signal that they want to shut down its nuclear power in 2020. It would suggest that Norway will become a major energy supplier for, for example: This country, and to Europe in general. Then we see that the infrastructure that is built up along the coast so far is stuffed up slightly south of Lofoten. We also know that an oil and petroleum activity is important for the districts. On our way up the committee we got, among other things. see the demographic development in Lofoten, which went the wrong way. We see that traditional fishing and travel is not enough. Doesn't the Centre want to be involved in the expansion of business and activity in this part of the country as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e714	First of all, I have to say that if you have an idea that there is no industrial development north of the North West, you have to travel even more in the North. A trip to Hammerfest is then recommended. Furthermore, the Centre Party has pointed to just the potential of industries such as tourism, fish and aquaculture – in addition to renewable energy. Regardless of whether a now opens up to petroleum activity in some of the areas covered by this plan, there will be a need for a wide range of workplaces and value creation. The industries I am referring to here are renewable and, at least potentially, eternal industries, in which there are great potentials. The industry that Oskar J. Grimstad points to is with respect to reporting at least the time limit relative to workplaces. So a slightly more nuanced view of what can create development and growth in the north is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e721	We see that the demographic developments in our three northernmost states show a region that has challenges in maintaining the population. This is particularly the case in part of the municipalities of Lofoten and Vesterålen. The municipalities and county councils are seeing the danger signals, and therefore they are also powerful drivers for starting the co-expression of areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. It is very important that this region is given the opportunity to further develop industry, jobs and opportunities in a way that makes it attractive to house there. This is also one of the reasons why Right wants consistency. The center party likes to call itself a district party. Does not the Central Party fail both local democracy and a whole part of the country when they say no to the corollary of the areas outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e730	I also think the Right must be so honest that one admits that there are shared views also local politics about petroleum extraction in these areas. It is not that absolutely all the people elected in this oil section want to open up to petroleum extraction in these areas – that is also said. When it comes to growth and development in these areas, I refer to the answer I gave to the representative Grimstad. The center party is alive busy getting a positive development in these areas. It must be a paradox, I think, for the representative of Lødemel, to see that under this government there are several municipalities, including in this area, a positive development of the people, compared to what some municipalities experienced under the previous government, where the right had the municipal minister. It shows that there are, in fact, other tools that can be used here to facilitate value creation in these areas. There's a lot of exciting industries that have a huge potential, and we in the Center Party want to be with and further develop them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e737	The representative Sande started his speech by saying that the management responsibility underlies the central party's policy. It's a value that the Christian People's Party shares. The centre party probably has a slogan called ‘Take advantage of the whole country’ – perhaps the whole base, too, when we are now discussing energy. Sande was concerned that in North Norway there is a high potential in terms of travel, renewable energy and also fisheries. It is supported by the undersigned. But now we're going to move the oil and gas business northwards, and then it's vital for North Norway to have local and regional ring-effects. There was a blow about it in the hall yesterday. Now leave it. However, it is a bit alarming that the representatives of Sande and the Central Party are not involved in comments in the committee's position on this, that we should build up competence and the supply industry in North Norway. Why is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e744	Let me first say that the representative Hemdal quoted a good central party slogan: ‘Take advantage of the whole country’. I almost expected her to mention another of our good slogans, namely that growth is not to consume any more, but to manage better. There is, of course, a slogan in this debate. It is like the Christian People's Party that we have been very clear on the matter of petroleum extraction outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. That should be said by the representative instead of mentioning that we wanted to use the entire socket. But at the same time, we are concerned that where we have petroleum activity – and there is one that is going forward in parts of this area, and has increased petroleum activity – it is going to create ringing effects that benefit communities. The battle for the legal text when it comes to ringing was not in the hall yesterday. It was when the EEA Agreement was introduced in the mid-1990s. At that time, the Christian People's Party was on the wrong side, and it helped to limit Norwegian authorities' possibilities even within that sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e751	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e754	The left believes that today's decision in the Storting is an important environmental victory. That's it for two reasons. Lofoten and Vesterålen are a very important area in Norway to take care of nature. But there are also very few environmental victories that have been under this government, and then it's important to celebrate those we have. We are pleased with the postponement we are now receiving, and believe that there are many confessions that should have come across this hall when we deal with it today. First of all, this case shows that the Lofoten and the Vestreål are really just crumbs in oil-Norway. The left is for oil and oil drilling, minus the places we're opposed to. We also believe that it would not have been unconditionally good if we had turned off the Norwegian oil tap overnight and other oil suppliers were to deliver to the world market. That doesn't mean it would have been good for the environment. It is important for our welfare state that we extract our oil in a good way, and it is important for the environment that we are both able to meet future challenges of conversion and that we do so in the most environmentally friendly way possible. But when the dream of oil is the starting point, the Lofoten and the Vestral are a trifle. Yes, sail Ekofisk, who has been running for over 40 years, has more resources than what we're talking about in the Lofoten, the West and Senja. The left wants the primary permanent protection of the area. First of all, it's because it's a very important fishing area, it's spawning area for a very important part of our fishing resources. It's an important natural area. It is an important tourist area in relation to tourism development. But we do not just think that this is a good place in Norway, as it sounds like it is. We believe that this is part of our world heritage that we are actually obliged to take care of. There are two reasons why these areas are particularly important to take care of. One is that the base here is very narrow, which leads to even closer landings. Suffering if we try to operate our oil business as safely as possible, no one can guarantee that nothing will ever happen wrong. The second is that this is such an important area in terms of taking care of the world heritage that we are set to manage. When we see how other countries take care of their vast natural heritage, I think the least we can do is make sure that the Lofoten, the Vestral and the Outer Senja are an area that is our contribution to the world's natural heritage. The left is very pleased that we were in government when the principle of management plan was adopted. A management plan is adopted and decided to say that some areas are to be operated, some areas are to be taken care of. Or to put it simply, some areas need green light, and some areas need red light. If there's any area in all of Norway, on a Norwegian base, we should give red light, that's exactly this area. The point of a management plan was the whole idea of the entire base, where we were to introduce red and green light. The fact that the government has now set a yellow light is a good step in the right direction, but we would have preferred a red light in this area. The left will also vote for the Christian People's Party's proposal, no. Two and three. I have a comment specifically related to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the northern regions, we know that security is important in order to achieve sustainable solutions. We have seen how ice, snow and cold on Snow White have led us to have had extra challenges in doing the job properly. Moving the border from 50 km to 35 km will lead to oil spills reaching land much faster. The word ‘oil lance’ is hardly spoken before the country is released. To illustrate briefly, when Statfjord A released 36 000 tonnes of oil in a discharge in 2007, it disappeared before reaching the country. But when Full City went on land outside Langesund by 50-200 tonnes, there was a huge problem, because it was so close to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e771	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e774	One of Norway’s major forces as a society is the ability to find national, wide-ranging compromises on important issues, where there are different opinions. What the Big One is doing today, with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is precisely finding such a national compromise on one of the most difficult issues the Big One has faced in this four-year period. National compromises are needed when different industries are facing each other. Yes, of course, we need both oil, gas, fisheries, travel, public sector and a series of other industries in the northern part of the country. They can often coexist, but there are contradictions between them as well, and national compromises are necessary. We need national compromises on issues where the population is divided. In the question we are now discussing, all polls show that the total population in Norway is divided roughly in the middle. The population of Northern Ireland is divided roughly in the middle, and the population of Lofoten and the Western Sea is divided roughly in the middle, plus-minus in the polls that have been conducted. The more important it is to find national compromises. The issue of growth or protection, industrial activity and/or the environment and how to coexist is likely to be the main line of conflict in Norway over the last decades. That's what has led to most confrontations. The more important is the ability to find national compromises in such cases. Very few regret today that in the 1970s Gro Harlem Brundtland, with two votes in the national assembly of the Workers' Party, fought through the protection of Veig and Dagali and thus the protection of Hardangervidda, who, with very few exceptions, the whole of the Stortinget and the whole population today end up about. It was a hard fight that time. But this is an example of the kind of compromise that has been Norway's strength since then. The reason why compromises on the Barents and Lofoten issues are particularly important is that this is an area of unique natural values. 93 pst. all Norwegian cod caught in the Barents Sea/Lofoten. It's the largest international cod strain. 85 pst. by haze caught there. Maybe more surprising for most: 64 pst. Of all herring, 57 pst. of shrimps and 50 pst. of sej. I am not going to go further into the industry in these areas. It's also a very central area for hedged seabirds. There are 5 million pairs of hedged seabirds in the Barents/Lofoten area. That's 90 pst. of all hedged seabirds in Norway, including Svalbard. Røst is the largest bird mountain in mainland Europe, and Gäsvær in Finnmark is the second largest. The monitoring programmes for the seabed launched by MAREANO on the basis of the previous Storting decision in the management plan context have revealed a lot of new knowledge. There are many new species and natural habitat types and an eldorado of amazing nature and images that make even the greatest artists of the rank wary when you look at the coral reefs and everything that's on the seabed along the Norwegian coast. So it's huge, amazing natural values that are at stake here. Of course, there are also areas where industrial development and employment are important. The management plans are something for which Norway has received much international recognition. There is great international respect for them. A lot of people come to copy them. I am pleased that the entire majority in the Grand Duchy today expresses such a great enthusiasm for the work on the management plan. In this management plan, the government does not merely facilitate the proper maintenance of key natural qualities. Let me say that the natural state of Norwegian seas is good, probably the best or among the best in the world. The Barents Sea is a clean and rich sea. The large fish stocks are in good condition, thanks to the good management of the fisheries authorities for a long time. And there is a low level of pollution in these areas, albeit a significant concern for seabirds. So it's a good state of nature, thanks to good governance. Then we also facilitate value creation. The government wants to have a broad majority of the Storting with it and to have a balanced value creation based on the fishing industry such as traditional coastal and tourist-related cultural and commercial carriers, which is perhaps the largest growing industry in the world today. I am amazed that the Right speaks down the meaning of travel life. For me, there's every reason to talk about the importance of travel life. Many people say that travel today stands for 17 pst. Of the workplaces in the world and is the fastest growing industry, so why you choose to talk down instead of emphasising the importance of travel life is incomprehensible to me. So we need a balanced development of fisheries, tourism, oil and gas and the public sector. With regard to the development of oil and gas, significant new exploration areas for oil and gas activities are set up. Finnmark is the major new area for such exploration activities, while maintaining the most vulnerable area, namely the Lofoten and the Vestreål, and does not open up oil extraction there. Let me say that the strangest thing in this debate is the mockery that the Right Party and the Advance Party are really bubbling over the Christian People's Party and the Left. Because in this debate, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have made it a main point to say that SV – and it probably also includes the Centre Party – has got the Workers' Party involved in a national compromise on this, and it is harmful. I believe that this national compromise is very good. But if it is harmful, it must mean one of two: either that the Right Party and the Advance Party have not really intended to invite the Christian People's Party and the Left into a government, even though they keep saying that they will – then it is clarifying – or that they do not perceive that the Christian People's Party and the Left have their own stand on this matter. They think they're puddles that just want to tune in, no matter what the Right Party and the Advance Party say. Because that's the only way to get through the Right Party and the Advance Party here says. Either they're not going to have a Christian People's Party and the Left, or they're going to run them over completely with an arrogance, for which they sometimes accuse the Workers' Party, but which the Workers' Party has not shown in this case. I believe that we are very much in favour of such a national compromise, and that the mockery shown here by the Progress Party and the Right towards its potential government partners says a lot about the two parties. Let me add that for very many years one of the most important slogans of the Right was that Norway had to become less oil dependent. Those of us who remember — and it is not that long ago — when Kåre Willoch was prime minister in Norway, one of his most important concerns was to ensure that Norway would have a wider business life and not become too oil addict. Then it's strange that the right every time there's a chance to make Norway more oil addict, chooses to say yes, let's use this chance, instead of looking at what the government has done here: a balanced development of the different industries, where you don't put oil businesses in the very most vulnerable area, but gives the oil and gas industry a good opportunity to develop in parallel with fisheries, travel and other industries, and including the public sector. I visited the Lofoten two or three weeks ago and spoke with the Lofot Council and the rapporteurs there. It was interesting to see the future-optimism expressed by these rapporteurs, and the great interest they showed in developing the Lofoten as a World Heritage Site on the UNESCO World Heritage List. No matter what one might think of oil activities, there must be every reason to do so. As can be seen from the papers here, Vega has had a multiple of the tourist influx – from a low base – after gaining world heritage status. And a series of other areas both in Norway and internationally have had this. Let us now move on with the Lofot municipalities – of course on the basis of what they say – and develop the Lofot as a World Heritage Site, and on the basis of the few to the increased influx of tourists and thus a safer development of travel life as an annual industry in the Lofot and the West. Finally, let me point out in two areas where there is cause for environmental concern for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, despite the fact that the general state is good. One is seabird. We see a dramatic decline in seabird populations, not only there, but also in the Baltic Sea, in the western Atlantic, Greenland, the Faeroe Islands – at all in the northern regions. We're working with the other Nordic countries to see what we can do about the decline in marine bird populations. The second environmental concern is related to marine acidification. This is the great, unknown factor today in the environmental state of our oceans. Many suggest that the seas are getting more acidic as a result of climate change. We don't know much about the long-term effects of this, but there's every reason to alert, and there's even greater reason to develop more research and more knowledge in this area, so that we know what we can possibly do to counteract any negative effects of it. Finally, I believe this is a good day for Norway. The ability of the government parties together with the Christian People's Party and the Left now to find a national compromise in this matter is something that will be to our long-term honour. It is one of the many examples that we are able to find compromises between growth and protection, which have characterized Norway in the last decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e810	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e814	There was a terrible lot of pointless polemics in what the Council of State came with. I'm not going to go into that, it doesn't matter for the debate. What is a reality, and it is well in relation to this with the impact assessment, because it is a policy issue, is that the majority in this Chamber does not come up because the parties are swinging the whip. But what becomes the question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State believe that in the future there will be technology and processes in the oil industry that will make it proper to operate oil activities outside the Lofoten and the West Sea and Senja? Could there be technology and processes in the future to do so? Or does the Council of State think that it should be closed forever because it cannot be defended?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e821	I mean it would be very, very stupid now to declare forever and always that no such technology can exist at any time. What we're considering now is whether that technology exists today, whether we should initiate such oil exploration today, and the answer to that is no. Whether such technology can be found in 2030, 2050 or 2100 – then hardly exists either Solvik-Olsen or I – is completely impossible to say. Technological developments have been enormous in many other areas. Then I react a little to the fact that Solvik-Olsen, when the Right and Advance Party throughout this debate, by almost every line, have attacked either the SV for having overthrown the Workers' Party or the Workers' Party for having given a little in front of SV and not seeing the significance of such a national compromise, reacts to my saying something about the attitude of the Progress Party and the Right to its potential partners, with whom one obviously believes that there should be no compromises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e826	It is worth noting that in this case there have been no negotiations and such things that have led one to negotiate until a so-called compromise. This is just about one having signed up in some areas, where one has a parallel view, and in other areas not. I think the council here is trying to exaggerate what kind of situation is in Stortinget. Nor is it disrespectful of the Christian People's Party and the Left that the Advance Party and the Right promote their views in this regard. What we think is that for the Workers' Party, which for the second time turns out in this case, this is an important matter, because this is about jobs and industrial activities in the northern regions. Back to my question: When the Council of State says that one cannot rule out technology once in the future, does the Council of State also believe that one should avoid protecting these areas from petroleum activities for the eternal future, so that the day of the technology exists, a step can take towards making an impact assessment in order to harvest the energy resources that exist outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e833	Any increase and any government must assess any decision based on the technology available at a given time. It's an absolute obvious fact, and will of course apply to future greatness. What we are now considering is based on the technology that now exists, and now, in my opinion, it is not safe to launch an impact study on the Lofoten and the West Pole, because there is no technology that makes it credible that this will not have a significant environmental impact. Then I repeat that it is not wrong for the Progress Party and the Right to present its vision. Nor is it wrong that it is different from that of the Christian People's Party and the Left. But what's wrong is that the Progress Party and the Right have now made it the main issue in this debate to attack the Workers' Party because the Workers' Party has found a national compromise with the Christian People's Party, with the Left, with the SV and with the Centre Party. Five parties have made a national compromise here – it's obviously wrong. That must say everything about what the Advance Party and the Right have intended to do themselves in relation to the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e840	Yeah, that's funny.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e845	The next replicator is Nikolai Astrup. The president asks Astrup if he has asked for two lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e848	I'd like to take it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e853	That'll be a reason for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e856	It is quite special to listen to the Council of State, because it may seem that he has not received any of the contributions from the representatives of the Workers' Party that have been held today – not the contribution from the representative Sund, who was not only positive to the impact assessment, but also says that the areas already identified can be opened in 2013. So the national compromise obviously hangs in a rather thin thread. What SV has got with the Workers' Party is not a national compromise, it's a national postponement, and it's something quite different. So back to what the representative Solvik-Olsen said, namely, whether there will be technology in the future that will enable SV to change its view on this matter. What does the Council of State think about what BP is doing in southern England in a nationally protected area, where oil is used but drilled from land to limit any possibility of discharge at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e863	I don't know what BP is doing in South England, but any technology development that reduces the real or potential environmental impact of oil production is positive. It's a fantastic thing that the oil business today has very many places in the world with much less environmental impact than it had before. Much of it is due to the fact that oil companies have been pressured by strong opinion, governments have regulated the oil business – precisely what is at the heart of red-green policy, namely the need to regulate the market. If you free yourself from business, you don't get this kind of technology development. Is it an area where technology development is almost always due to public regulation, and that alone, it is in the environmental field, because in the environmental field almost always technology development is due to regulation, and not because the market itself requires it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e868	If the Council of State wants to press and impose requirements that will once again lead to technological development, there is something that the Right is very positive about, and we recognise that there are just demands from the authorities in the sector that are largely driving technology development. Since the Council of State considers that authorities should press and impose requirements, will not a natural consequence be to determine the consequences? How should you get the opportunity to press the industry, make new demands, contribute to technology development, if you do not also have an impact assessment? There is a natural link between the impact assessment and, therefore, the conditions under which it would be possible for such a business to start. Then again, the reference to BP’s operation outside South England, where you drill from land, is an interesting example that the Council of State should take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e874	If there is one thing that this debate has really fully demonstrated, it is that impact assessment is not what the Right ran around for several years before this debate and claimed, namely a slightly innocent way of acquiring general knowledge. The debate has fully shown, and the Right has said it very clearly even in this debate, that impact assessment is part of an opening process. Then I feel that the question is defined. Then I find – and it is joyous – that the Right has moved very far in a red-green direction historically, in the sense that business needs to be regulated. In most debates, the main starting point for the Right has been to give industry the most freedom of choice, while the reality is that only a dynamic business that is closely regulated by the public is producing good environmental results. Finally, I repeat that the national compromise we are currently making on this matter is of fundamental importance, and it is of great interest to know whether the Right does not intend to make any compromises with its negotiating partners in any later government, or only intends to overrun them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e883	I want to start my line by thanking the Council of State, because it is not so often I feel that the Council of State is completely tidy in relation to where the Christian People's Party and the Left stand. But here you're going to get a thank you compared to that yes, we agree with the government on a no to impact assessment in this round, and that was very important. It is a good professional notice the Council of State has submitted to the Stortinget. It has been updated since 2006. We have been confirmed that the valuable and vulnerable natural areas are still there, and that they must have special care and protection from our side. Nevertheless, there is a change in relation to emission requirements. It's a restriction on where we can operate petroleum activity in the coastal belt, and it's a massive allocation in relation to the TFO, allocation in predefined areas. I hope to be believed by the Council of State that this is not a suture, but only the facts that are also contained in the management plan. So my question to the Council of State is, isn't there a lot of good environmental policy in the pot to achieve a no to impact assessment in this round?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e892	I'm just glad I'm rarely charged with environmental policy in Stortinget. Almost all the accusations in the Grand Duchy of the Right and the Advance Party are the opposite, namely that the government is leading too actively, too ambitious and too strong an environmental policy in areas by region. So the opposite is certainly needed, and is just good. So I just want to say that this is part of the national compromise that has been reached. We have had a precautionary principle in terms of discharges into the Barents Sea, but there has also been a lot of new knowledge that has led us to believe that it is possible to have the same legislation in all these seas. Let me end by saying that what this debate shows is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are 99 pst. Agree with the Government. The Christian People's Party and the Left are part of the national compromise of which the majority today are carriers. It's very positive. And then it's just positive if we get a little bit of criticism for the small points that can be criticized for not being good enough for environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e901	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e904	The government’s proposal for updating the management plan shows that the government’s oil and gas policy is based on an ambition that petroleum deposits should also be exploited on a northern Norwegian base. And I want to say that what is put on the table today is very well received out. The undersigned is also satisfied. It also shows that the government is deeply involved in this by wanting to speed up the acquisition of knowledge in the revised budget and by spending a lot of resources on it. It is important that the Ministry of this work engages in a good dialogue with local authorities and organisations, so that this knowledge acquisition is well anchored in the region as well. We are therefore pleased that the government will perform the nutritional and ring-effects of increased petroleum activity, especially for travel and fishing. The government’s proposal also means that new blocks can be assigned immediately in the area outside the Nordic region and that the activity limit outside Troms and Finnmark is moved 15 km closer to the country. This provides the basis for increased activity already today. I am also pleased that the government has established that Nordland VI is already consistent, and that this will enable activities to be started in this area early on in the next growing-up period. The current decisions also open up long-term opportunities for both marine resource use and enhanced cooperation with Russia. This is incredibly important for the region and not least for the more than one hundred thousand workers employed in the supplier industry. And there's been a great commitment to this case. Then it is important to understand that the rational use of our natural resources, including potential off-shore petroleum resources, will be crucial for the future of the continent. Natural resources as a basis for value creation, whether it is fish, including agriculture, power, minerals or forests in Helgeland, and now perhaps also oil and gas, are the things that keep people stuck up here. That's the way it will still be in the foreseeable future, at least if we can avoid just becoming a beautiful setting for people who come to visit and are on vacation. Too many people say it's so beautiful up there, but it's also going to live there. For those of us who want growth and development in the region, population development is a cause for concern. At the beginning of 2011, the population in the Nordic countries was slightly above 237 000 people, about the same as in 1960, i.e. 50 years ago, while the country's population had increased by 1.4 million in total. And without comparison: Rogaland, which in 1960 had nearly the same population as Northern Ireland, has an increase of almost 200,000 people over the same period. And no one will make me think that the oil business has not been involved in this. Even more worrying is the fact that the number of inhabitants in northern countries aged between 60 and 69 has increased by more than 20 pst in five years, while the number of people aged between 20 and 40 has decreased by 10 pst in the same period. So we're at full speed towards a 'exploitation' of this county if the trend is not reversed. The Lofoten and the Vesterålen are no exception, perhaps on the contrary. In the last 25 years, flak cities in Lofoten have had a population reduction of almost 25 pst. Bø i Vesterålen has had a reduction of well over 30 pst. during the same period. I'm not saying this to blackmail the situation, but that's actual information, and you have to take it seriously. We can't turn this development around just by betting on traditional industries. Nordland has been, and is still, a large fishing community, and this industry is incredibly important. Quantity and export value have increased considerably, but the number of fishermen is decreasing steadily. There are about as many employees at Mo Industripark in Mo in Rana, where I come from, as there are active fishermen in Northern Ireland today. Don't misunderstand me: the fishing industry is part of the core wall of the county, and Northland is also going to be a large fishing force in the future. Nevertheless, we must not have unrealistic expectations that this industry alone will be able to save the settlement in the county. Fisheries resources shall also be managed in a sustainable manner. We cannot expect a significant increase in quotas in the future, and the fishing methods are becoming increasingly effective, as I understand it. Maritime traffic along the coast, overfishing and harmful trawling by itself and others is probably a significantly greater threat to fishing resources than the petroleum activity will ever be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e925	St.meld. No 10 for 2010–2011, which we are discussing today, is an update of the management plan for the marine environment in the marine areas outside the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. This is a plan that most citizens and politicians in the area have great expectations. The majority in the area view this plan as a precursor to an impact assessment. The government has previously announced that the management plan will be updated regularly. In the summer of 2010, when it became known that the management plan would come, the political drawdown in the government began to take shape. SV and the Senterpartie would not go further from the management plan to start an impact assessment under the Petroleum Act. The Prime Minister had to use his full weight to decide that the work on an impact assessment for the Lofoten and the Vesterål was not to be started during this process. More information was to be obtained once more. From the government it was difficult to get an overview of the areas in which knowledge gained was not satisfactory. The Workers' Party spokesperson for energy and the environment, Eirin Sund, was out with a big look in the VG that what we needed now was to obtain more information than the management plan contained. This was necessary before one could consider starting work on an impact assessment at all. SV's Kristin Halvorsen, on the other hand, believed that there was now more than enough information to prevent such an impact assessment. The Ministry of Oil and Energy carries out knowledge acquisition on the effects of petroleum activities in unopened parts of Northern Ireland IV, V, VI and VII and Troms II. The government writes that the data can be used for an impact assessment. The Party considers that the most logical is an extension of the range of petroleum scrapping/extracting northwards in Northern Ireland IV, V, VI and VII and Troms II. Some of these areas are considered to be the most promising to find oil and gas. The extension of gas pipelines to Europe will be natural in the context of the development of drifty findings in the areas. If you skip this area and go straight to the Barents Sea, the cost of a gas pipeline to Europe from the Barents Sea will hardly be economically viable. A positive impact assessment for the Lofoten and parts of Troms will have a very significant impact on the settlement in this area. If the area is drifting, it will generate many new jobs in most industrial disciplines. Oil and gas findings represent such high values that the construction of a strong knowledge industry in the areas will be possible. This has been done along the coast as oil and gas operations have constantly moved northwards. The tourism industry, which in large parts of the northern region is struggling to generate profits from its operation, will experience a high demand for its services in the development of oil and gas in the area. The resistance of oil activity in Lofoten and Troms to the major environmental hazards was to become a reality for oil/gas exploration and extraction. Environmental considerations, and not least a strongly improved oil protection sector, will be necessary and also possible to develop through the involvement of the oil industry. Existing clusters for the production of oil protection equipment, which are currently in an early stage, will have an opportunity to develop into a large industry. As I see it, the greatest danger of oil pollution in the area is the large and increasing shipping traffic from the oil and gas fields on the Russian side. A growing and satisfactory towing boat readiness will become a reality if oil and gas are extracted. Multiple tugs in the area are the best protection against shipshavary and environmental damage. The Progress Party believes that 40 years of experience in petroleum extraction on Norwegian soil contribute to reducing the likelihood of environmental disasters. The damage to the environment, fish or seabird has been negligible for these 40 years. Improved equipment and more stringent environmental requirements will further reduce the environmental impact. The Party considers that the basis for carrying out an impact assessment for all-year petroleum activities for the areas of Northland VII, Troms II and the unopened parts of Northland IV, V and VI is present. A positive impact assessment will be a very important driver for housing and business in large parts of North Norway. Finally, I expect those who, during yesterday's collapse debate, were very eager to get the oil companies to establish themselves close to new oil and gas fields, also voting for the adoption of an impact assessment for the Lofoten and parts of Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e948	The importance of the petroleum industry to Norway today cannot be underestimated. Oil and gas are our largest export industry, with the supplier industry as a good number two. Time has come for North Norway to take part in the opportunities that industries bring with them from knowledge-intensive jobs, value creation and environments of competence. In the Barents Sea we have already started, and the ring effects are well visible in many places in North Norway, not least in Hammerfest. Let it be a start on the changes that will come in the next few years. Some would argue that Norway should put petroleum resources on the ground for climate and environment reasons. I don't agree. Struggling Norwegian petroleum activities will have little or no impact on the global climate, but will have a major impact on the Norwegian state treasury. Conversion on the day oil and gas resources end, whether we want to or not, but there will be little thought of putting petroleum resources in the ground. Climate challenges need to be addressed with other and better instruments, and I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus on this in this Chamber. This agreement is based, among other things, on: in the recognition that replacement for Norwegian gas in Europe is an increased use of coal. It is not least a relevant argument in the light of Germany’s decision to phase out all of its nuclear power plants. If Norway is to maintain a gas export equivalent to 20 pst. of Europe's needs, we need to find more gas to fill the pipes. As early as 2020, Norway may face difficulties in meeting our obligations and the responsibility we have assumed for Europe's energy supply. The value of the thousands of kilometers of pipes we've laid on the Norwegian base will evaporate unless we fill them with gas to Europe. That being said, of course, we have to impose the most stringent environmental requirements that can be imposed on petroleum activity in North Norway in general and any future activity outside the Lofoten in particular. Oil protection must be strengthened, which should be done independently of future petroleum activities. Two serious accidents in Oslofjorden in the last few years show how vulnerable the Norwegian coastline is to accidents with ships, and in Oslofjorden there is no petroleum activity known. Specially demanding geographical and climatic conditions make us extra vulnerable in the north. Oil protection is therefore important and necessary and will naturally be dramatically strengthened in the context of new petroleum activity in the area. It is gratifying that there are particularly strong companies and environments of competence in this area already in North Norway, of which the Committee, among other things, visited NorLense in connection with the Committee's visit to Lofoten and the Westphalia in May. The Committee’s visit to Wytch Farm off the coast of South England last winter showed clearly that oil production opportunities exist in vulnerable and valuable natural areas without compromising the quality of the natural environment. In the middle of one of the most popular and protected natural areas in the United Kingdom, BP produces significant quantities of oil from a land installation. The activity is not visible, either to tourists or to locals. Horizontal drilling techniques allow drilling 11 km at sea from land. This means that any exploding or accident will come on land and not at sea. This makes it easier to prevent and manage if it occurs. It is not certain that it is desirable or realistic to implement something similar in the Lofoten and the West Sea, but what is certain is that any petroleum activity in the Lofoten and the West Sea should not impair the natural quality, marine environment or biodiversity. It requires oil companies and authorities to think outside the box, as they do, among other things. has done at Wytch Farm, and that in this room we make strict demands for new activity in the north. We have reason to expect a lot of the petroleum industry. The activities on Norwegian pedestal are among the most environmentally friendly in the world; they should also be in the future. Erik Solheim believes it is a mockery of the Christian People's Party and the Left that the Right as an opposition party has an independent view of this matter. It reveals a special sense of democracy in line with his party trap, the representative of Langeland, when he spoke in this room when we discussed oil sand, that he could not understand that the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal that they knew would be defeated. It is also in the range of a special vision of democracy. State Council Solheim should reflect on the fact that the Workers' Party has today announced that the national compromise it has spoken for is due to be lifted as early as 2013. That's what the representative Eirin Sund spoke about, and it's up to the government to assess whether it's a mockery of SV or an announcement of SV's variety from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e974	The majority is now discussing a very important issue that not only concerns the northern part of the country, but is also a national matter. This management plan is very comprehensive, and it deals with many issues that involve many people. We have one thing here that we need to take care of nature and the environment, but we also need to take care of existing businesses, and we need to look at the opportunities to develop new industries where more industries have to live and work side by side. Therefore, this case and the investigations at the bottom of this case are so important in order to assess how the huge resources in these northern areas can be used properly and effectively. This applies to large, renewable and non-renewable resources for which the world is out of demand and for which they pay well. I cannot fully understand those who have concluded too categorically in this matter, and long before this important update came to the table, and of course long before the rest of the necessary professional assessment, knowledge acquisition and impact studies were in place. What's the point of using large sums and lots of professionals to make such extensive investigations if we're not going to base this extensive work on when the decisions are made here in Stortinget? This work has been going on for a long time, and during the work we have seen that the need for even more knowledge has emerged. This isn't really so nice. When we know that through this work we have surveyed both seabeds, seabirds, geology, etc. Over vast sea areas, it must be understood that this takes time and costs a great deal of money. As a resident in the northern part of the country, I feel secure that this work is done as thoroughly and extensively as we now see. At the same time, we are talking about a part of the country and a large geographical area full of several types of resources, which at the same time need more and more robust industries in order to create new and secure jobs and to be able to secure and develop the settlement. As a citizen of the north, I see this as an important objective for North Norway. Therefore, my great wish is that we in the north should be able to maintain and develop our rich fisheries, our amazing travel products, our arctic agriculture, our marine industries, etc., while also exploiting the petroleum resources that we are so lucky to possess. When I now bear these wishes, I will not be accused of gambling with the environment in the part of the country where I live, and where I intend to live for the rest of my life. I'm, of course, concerned with protecting the environment and the renewable resources, but I sincerely hope that we can also put in place a wide range of industries in the north, as we see it has worked in the rest of the country over many decades. I am therefore satisfied with the job that is now being done to clarify all aspects of the future use of resources in the north. I am also very pleased with the wording of the Soria Moria declaration on oil protection and environmental monitoring. All of this is closely related to a strong bet in the north, to which most people in the north have attached great faith in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e991	The Progress Party is aware that the management of Norwegian seas should build on knowledge of the coherence of the ecosystem and how human and industrial activity affects it. At the same time, it is also important to recognise that coherence is complex and that it will be impossible to obtain full knowledge of these large seas. Record-sized resources have been used, and the most regrettable thing about this is that today we are dealing with a management plan without laying the necessary complete foundation for the future exploitation of petroleum resources that very many want and hope to become a reality. Studies are related to the monitoring of seabeds, seabirds and geology, through the bottom-monitoring programme MAREANO, the Seabirds programme SEAPOP and the collection of seismic data related to petroleum interests below the seabed. The greatest efforts have been directed towards the areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja and around the area at the edge of the Egga. These areas were selected in 2006 because they were interesting for the petroleum industry, while being identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. Significant efforts have also been made to strengthen knowledge of the availability and supply of environmental taxes to the Norwegian seas, through the coordinated monitoring initiated by the management plan through the Supply Programme. In this way, a good knowledge of the type of action you need to put in order to house oil and gas resources in the most environmentally friendly way possible. It is equally important to put in place strategic infrastructure measures to facilitate future activity in a region calling for new measures. In particular, we see that demographic developments in our three northernmost states show that we have major challenges in maintaining the population. It is therefore important that the region is given the opportunity to further develop industry, employment shortages and opportunities in a way that makes it attractive to house there, especially in some of the municipalities of the Lofoten and the West, which have major challenges associated with the population and to relocate young people. So is everything right for new activity in the North? Yes, one notes that the new knowledge presented in the message provides the basis for maintaining the conclusion that the environmental state of the Barents Sea and the oceans outside is good, and that this should lay the foundation for the revitalisation of a part of the country that both wants and expects new activity. There is also every reason to expect that co-existence with fishing interests can also come into place, as has been done further south along the coast. During the Committee's visit at the end of May, there was clear criticism of the seismic shooting and the resulting land conflicts. A solution to this problem must be that during seasons of seasonal fishing one stops for this type of activity. That one has to take special care of the coastal fishing fleet is undeniable and necessary as they represent great values with levity as a perspective. Then the population and the petroleum industry will have to wait for the collapse majority to reflect in 2013 at the same time as a resounding yes to opening based on good and strict environmental requirements. Instead of being panegyrisk to extraction, a focus should rather be on prequalification and environmental requirements, so that one can make demands on the actors who are extracting resources rather than saying no, no, such as: SV does, at the same time as they have little or no countermeasures against using resources as the same industry contributes to the welfare community. It is simply not credible. The paradox is not that future oil activity in the Lofoten and the West Pole represents the greatest potential hazard to the region. No, today oil tankers and others just outside the Lofoten and the West Pole sail and pose a greater threat when it comes to spillage in the event of an accident. The report by Norske Veritas shows that the risk of emissions increases markedly up to 2025 along most of the coasts of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. The challenge lies more in shipping ahead than in petroleum activity itself. The goal and wish for the Progress Party is that now the northern part of the country must also share in the fantastic potential of the petroleum sector, with the growth and further development of business and positive optimism, as we have seen that a coastal road along the south coast has been taken part in this industry. The regret is that we will lose seven years, from 2006 to 2013, before a possible yes to the impact assessment. These seven years could be the clog in the system to allow Nordland and Troms to participate in the economic development that could otherwise be achieved in this area. It's the Labour Party's responsibility. A good day for regions in the north is when you use the room for opportunity to open the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja in line with the contributions of the representatives of Arensen and Stroem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1023	There has been a long way to dealing with this matter in the main hall. It has been an interesting process to be part of – from the start of work on the previous management plan almost ten years ago. What we're discussing is the use of some of the most special and some of the richest, but also the most vulnerable sea areas we have. Many have been concerned with the resources available here, ranging from seabird to petroleum resources, but in a global context, there is no doubt that the most important thing is that this is the spawning area of the world's last large cod stock. Lofoot fishing is world famous. It is a large source of income for the region and for the country, and it has created jobs for generations after generation. This is an eternal resource and something you can't risk with. I was happy to hear, for example. in the committee consultation round, actors, people in the region, regardless of what might be thought of the impact assessment during this round, it is clear that if coexistence is not possible, if the risk is too high, we choose the fish in front of the oil. The debate on this matter has been overtaken for some time. Open-ended supporters have been accused of giving the bluff in environmental advice, of being dazzled by beautiful promises from the oil companies, while the opponents have been accused of being against all kinds of industrial development and of believing that the whole of North Norway is going to be a natural museum. Old Bush rhetoric about latte-sipping lefties has got its breakthrough in Norway because of this case, and it could be tempting to give a defense speech about the democratic right of Oslo people to speak out, but I'll leave it. Although the characteristics can get tough, I'm glad that this is a topic that creates debate, and that opening up the most vulnerable sea areas we have is something the Storting doesn't do without a proper knowledge base. I have to admit, it's a little strange to hear the parties that would drop the huge amount of knowledge that's been done in the last five years, and that we've spent a quarter of a billion dollars. kr on, accuse such people as me of being opponents of knowledge because we are voting against impact assessment later today. I think it's okay to get some honesty in this debate and admit that the oil companies' eagerness after impact assessment is not primarily about an enormous hunger of knowledge, but about exceeding an important formal barrier to opening up. And that's fine. I have great sympathy for the desire for activity, the desire for local ring effects. It's not hard to understand. But when the environmental advice is as clear as they are, it is good to take time and be sure that all essential aspects have been properly highlighted before making a final decision. And if there's some sea areas we're going to have a debate about, it's these. This is not about symbolism or the beauty of the areas. They are, for all things, but that's not what it's all about. First of all, these are areas where we have unique ecological functions that are important to the nutritional basis of the whole region and that are important to the country. That doesn't mean that we're going to be collecting knowledge forever, as some claim, but it's about making sure that the decision-making basis is good enough, because this is an important choice, not just for a region, but for the country. This is a question of national interest. I am pleased with the decision we are going to make today. I think it's a decision that outlines a very reasonable way forward. It shows that environmental advice has weight, even when we are discussing petroleum, while combining it with a desire to shed light on what kind of ring effects activity can produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1041	These are the plans, opportunities for work, value creation, profits and industrial development, and there is no limit to the possibilities of the plan presented. At the same time, however, the opportunities offered by the plan also provide opportunities for the future in terms of the sustainable use of resources, and to maintain the structure, functioning, productivity and diversity of ecosystems. There has been tension related to the roll-out of the management plan, and a proper pace of action. One promises business, and one gives the possibilities through the plan, while we commit ourselves by taking into account the enormous values that lie in nature and in the sea in the north. A clean, rich and productive sea is perhaps one of the most important things we can make sure that we leave ourselves – from our history. We have to manage the resources. We must harvest in such a way that future generations will also have the opportunities that we have today. Fisheries and aquaculture, or, as the previous representative said, loot fishing, are good examples of the need for responsible management where the sustainability and precautionary principle are a fundamental part of the political decisions that we are making. The solution chosen by the government and the majority of the population is very good, precisely because it contains the responsibility that we will, of course, have to assume in terms of future opportunities to make good use of resources. The plan balances the need to make good progress in the development of oil and gas resources and takes on a balanced relationship with the huge and, hopefully, eternal fisheries resources that are there. The updated management plan shows the need for increased knowledge acquisition. It's a fact that's being established, and we can't underlie it. We need to get more knowledge about important resources in an important maritime area. The management plan is, as I said, a plan that facilitates increased activity, increased value creation and increased employment in important areas. I've been talking about fishing and aquaculture. The Minister for Fisheries has launched a new report on fisheries. Thinking about the exploitation of fishing resources in this marine area is enormously important. The limitations imposed by this plan are to safeguard the opportunities for fisheries and aquaculture in the future. The same applies to travel lives. There are enormous wealth creation opportunities and enormous employment opportunities in travel in the north. The same applies, of course, to the petroleum industry. This plan provides for new opportunities, new activities that will develop the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian technology and underpin employment and value creation in Norway. One of our major problem areas is shipping. We have to be on guard there all the time because it may be where the danger of destroying resources is greatest. But the activity that this plan provides is reason to rejoice. It is that in the case of the activity on Norwegian pedestal, on which something has been focused in this debate – where the differences are actually located – I believe that we should first of all also acknowledge from this interlocutory that the pace at which this government has set has strengthened the Norwegian supplier industry. There is a balanced relationship between what should be opened, what should be facilitated by new attractive areas, and what Norwegian technology development and Norwegian suppliers and knowledge environments can actually be involved in developing. In total, we have every reason to enjoy the work summarised in the management plan, and above the important road choices that are being drawn up, not least through the reinforcements that the majority's observations on the management plan actually represent. It's, as I said, a message with opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1058	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1061	The government's ambition is that Norway will be the world's leading maritime nation. That means that we are going to harvest and produce healthy and safe seafood from the world's best managed coastal and marine areas in an eternity perspective. The stock estimates for the main fish stocks in the Barents Sea indicate that the management has flashed in the last few years. For the north-eastern Arctic cod and haze, we currently have record high broodstocks. Our objective is to manage in a way that maintains a high stock surplus within what can be considered a sustainable use of resources. At the same time, we are making provision for the populations that have had a negative development to deal with. I am thinking especially of coastal cod, oars and beaks. The management plan shall ensure that the framework conditions of the marine food industry are ensured for the future. After all, we have everything to do with an industry that exploits a renewable resource, a resource that can produce profits again and again, and secure income in the foreseeable future – well, notice if things are done in the right way. Petroleum activities are – as opposed to the fishing industry – a time-limited activity. We know that it will end once the reserves are exhausted. That's why we need to think about what we're going to live on in retrospect. And afterwards, we're going to continue to live on the value creation of the resources that renew themselves. Of course, it requires that the seafood industry is not harmed — either real or reputational — during a time of oil extraction. The management plan points to the need for knowledge acquisition. We need to understand the complex ecosystems so that we can benefit from them – both directly and indirectly – in the future. We need to know more about the consequences of oil spills. We need to have a good preparedness to deal with accidents and acute pollution. More knowledge about the risk of emissions and the different methods of combating oil pollution is therefore a priority task for me. We have already implemented several measures to strengthen preparedness and maritime safety in the north, and as pointed out by the Committee, the Oil Protection Forum and the Centre of Competence in Vardø are two of them. All in all, we now have a management plan that strengthens the marine food industry, both by ensuring continued activity and taking care of the environment of which resources are part, and by facilitating co-existence with new industries. This message is also a very good starting point for the work on a new growth message on the marine food industry, which I will soon begin. Let me end by saying that today I am double satisfied and double happy. Both as a northerner and as a fisheries and coastal minister, I am very pleased with Stortinget's treatment and update of the management plan for the marine environment in the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten. This gives absolute confidence in the future for us who are so lucky to live in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1078	I noticed that the representative Serigstad Valen called this a joyous day. When the management plan was presented, the Christian People's Party was quickly outside and congratulated the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government with a good decision. That is, of course, the congratulations. But now that we've read a little bit more, the cheer has stopped a little bit. And I have to say that SV has put a lot – a lot – in the pot to win the victory. State Council Solheim said he was happy for criticism, and then he will get some of it in my post. I have noticed that in this case there is almost a scratch and a bit of the areas bordering on the Lofoten and the Vestral. Through the so-called TFO scheme, all open blocks in Northern Ireland I, III, IV and V have been inserted. Areas in Northland V also border the Westfjord, and one knows that these areas are as vulnerable as some of the areas in e.g. Northland VII and Troms II, which are not open for impact assessment. An oil spill here could have the same consequences as an oil spill in the vulnerable areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the current Minister for Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga announced an evaluation of the TFO scheme in 2007. This evaluation is now to be announced in the oil notification. It has been a long time since 2007, but it seems to me that the government has a desire to include as much of the areas as possible into the TFO before the evaluation comes, so that they open. Then I would like to remind you of a couple of relationships that the representative Hemdal of the Christian People's Party was also in. In this case, SV and the Central Party – together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party – go in to remove the increased oil spillage requirements in the Barents Sea. It was one of the important environmental victories of the Christian People's Party and the Left had in Bondevik II. SV is in favour of this without any professional justification. The second is that the limit for which oil operations are permitted is moved 15 kilometres – from 50 kilometres to 35 kilometres – off the coast of Troms and Finnmark. This is done despite professional advice not to do so. I have often wondered whether there is any limit to SV in environmental policy. SV has sacrificed many of the Christian People's Party's and Left's environmental victories from an earlier period, just to get a postponement of the Lofoten–Westerålen for maybe one to two years. That means that a voter who is concerned with the environment has to vote on the Christian People's Party or the Left Party, because it seems to me that SV swallows everything they can – just to win symbol winnings, as this actually is. I may not be the one to remember old days. Nevertheless, I would say that the environmental victories were at least greater when the Christian People's Party was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1095	I am pleased with this agreed management plan. It shows that you have two thoughts in your head at the same time: about nutrition and the environment. I am also pleased that you protect the vulnerable areas outside of Lofoten and Senja. To me, the traditional industries in the north are very important. I would like to make it clear that fisheries, mining and agriculture will continue to be important for the vast majority of Finnmark sites. Although Snow White has meant a lot to Hammerfest, it is not possible to say the same about the neighboring municipalities of Hammerfest with goals such as popular development. In the case of Másøy, fisheries remain the most important economic pathway, and in the future Kvalsund will invest in the mining industry in the field of industrial development and research development. Having two thoughts in mind at the same time, the large majority of municipalities that need a sustainable fishing population are also being highlighted. For me, it is therefore important to take account of the fisheries and spawning areas of the cod. What worries me is the one-sided attitude of the Progress Party towards the management plan and their inability to have two thoughts in their head at the same time. I note that the Progress Party on the Way does not want to listen to the fishing industry and that part of the fishing fleet that warns against activity in the vulnerable areas. The one-sided focus of the Progress Party in this management plan on oil extraction outside of Lofoten and Senja, I believe, challenges part of the industry and coastal communities that depend on fisheries. In my view, it is not enough for a single part of the country just to focus on the oil industry. Fisheries and travel, as the Minister for the Environment draws up, will continue to be very important for most small municipalities in North Norway. Finally, I would like to point out the opportunities for new activity that the petroleum industry will provide, the activity that requires us to impose ring-effects in the region, and that it is very important that any findings benefit the population in terms of jobs and new environments of competence. So we can have two thoughts in our head at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1110	There was one thing I didn't get affected in my previous post, and it was the travel industry. It is also an important industry for Northern Ireland, and often it is shown that this industry is the one to participate in and save the settlement in the region. I am among those who have great faith in the tourism industry, that it has development opportunities and a significant value creation potential. But we must also be realistic here. Nordic travel lives consist mainly of many small businesses with low earnings. Most also operate a short summer season. You don’t get your youth to live in the country to work parttime in a highly seasonal diet with low earnings, as you may have a job for just two to three months. There has to be something more; we have to have more legs to stand on. One does not rule out the other – on the other hand. Ask, for example: the hotel industry in Hammerfest about what the Melkoya plant means to them! Or, as Geir Solheim, regional director of NHO Travel Life North Norway, it states that ‘all other activities’ — and petroleum — ‘are good for the tourism industry in North Norway’. Among other things, this is also said: ‘There are no questions of oil or fish, petroleum or tourism. Several 10-year experience has shown that the petroleum industry, including its supplier industry, lives in excellent coexistence with other already established industries, and rather strengthens them.» The northern regions are high on the political agenda. This – and not least the ringing effects we have seen and continue to see of the Snow White Development, Norne and in connection with the start-up of Skarv, outside the Helgeland coast – has created optimism and confidence in the future in the region. In our opinion, it will be crucial for us who want to work and live, that the optimism generated by the petroleum industry in the north is carried on, and that we do not now get another postponement, unless unforeseen things appear. Continuing this optimism will be an important contribution to stopping the relocation from the area and giving young people new opportunities and a desire to stay or return to their own part of the country. And then one thing in the end: In the middle of Christmas now last, I was at a meeting where there were 90 young people present from the lake and Mo in Rana who want to return to Helgeland – 90 pieces. That was very good. But then we also need something to offer them from work. I don't think the oil company should save them alone, but it must be an addition. At the end of the day, only one case information: if I do not remember correctly and get incorrect information, most of the municipalities in Lofoten and Vesterålen were in favour of an impact assessment. One municipality said no, and it was the municipality of Røst – according to the information with which it was signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1128	The majority today takes a courageous decision, for which there is reason to be proud. The oil industry has not come forward, either with exaggerated promises or with doomsday prophecies. Both parts have been enough of this. The representative Serigstad Valen mentioned that Statoil continued to promise equal numbers of jobs, even when estimates of oil and gas deposits fell dramatically. This should be of concern to all of us, whether we are in favour of or against oil drilling in our most vulnerable and valuable marine areas. I've even met northerners with seagoing times from the oil industry who have warned against believing the promises of the same industry. Some were initially strong supporters of oil activities, but felt that oil activities here would never benefit North Norway – and at least not the small communities in Lofoten, the West and Senja. They were convinced that South Norway would run away with the win. Several investigations indicate that they are correct. Right-wing profiled politician and Vice-Chairman Bent Höie has said it outright: ‘Yes to oil drilling in the north of Rogaland for the sake of Rogaland’. Even I have spent a lot of time with business in my home country, Vestfold. Here a major seminar was organised in the direction of the oil industry, and to put it this way: under the chandeliers in Sandefjord, the workplaces in northern Norway were not at the centre, nor was there any risk of emissions or other environmental problems, despite the fact that at the same time errors, deficiencies and potential disasters were reported more and more frequently on Norwegian pedestals. The fact that this has not received much greater attention from the busiest oil trailers is a mystery to me. Perhaps you swear to OLF Director Gro Brekken's rewriting of the precautionary principle: Are you in doubt, say yes! We need to take seriously the concern about the future of young people, their housing and opportunities for work in the country. We have a clear responsibility to contribute by stimulating the development of sustainable jobs. It has been incredible fun to follow companies like Lofot Produkt, Hydra Tidal and the growth of travel and great optimism and their growing demand to give Lofot the world heritage status. Norway, as a coastal state, has gained unfathomable wealth. This is not something we have received because we deserve it; these are values that give us a great responsibility, an international responsibility. We have to show that we are aware of what it means to be a coastal state that manages irreplaceable and potentially eternal values. We need a perspective that goes beyond our own generation. Taking care of the last large cod stock in the world is not something we should take lightly. Bird life, coral reefs, marine mammals, the unique ecosystems deserve our respect and wisdom. Oil age will end, but fish need all future generations. The desire for and the need for recreation, experiences and untouched nature will only increase in strength. Travel sees the potential, and so should we.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1141	Since 2006, new analyses have been carried out in view of the environmental impact and risks of acute oil spills in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and the Senja. Several emission scenarios and analyses of environmental risks related to acute emissions have been developed in different locations in these marine areas. The results show that the increase in the duration of any acute discharge will increase the prevalence of oil spills. Many of these scenarios generally show a high probability that the oil will end up in the rocks. In the case of emissions from the coastal points modelled both in relation to the Nordic countries V, VI and VII, there is a high likelihood that the oil will be stranded along the coast. We also have some special challenges in terms of infrastructure and other preparedness, because the infrastructure in the area we are now talking about is more challenging than in other parts of the country. We also have a challenge in accessing personnel for action in this part of the country. We know that municipal preparedness here is believed to have a more limited stamina in extensive beach cleaning operations than elsewhere in the country. We have to take this into account. At the same time, the coast of the level area is of such a nature that there are many areas where the installation of beach cleaning personnel is difficult – areas that are also difficult to access from the sea side. Taking all this into account, the Christian People's Party believes that the government's proposal for new measures included in the plan to be prepared for acute contamination in the management area is not sufficiently concrete and too low a commitment. These measures are disproportionate to the challenges that will result from opening up to increased petroleum activity in these areas. We also know that the coastline in Northland – especially in Helgeland – is very complicated. Nordland has 34 pst. of Norway’s territorial waters, and large areas here are shallower than 20 metres. The Nordland coast has a narrow and shallow base with a lot of archipelago, where a completely different type of standby is required than for example. on the Finnmark coast. This was highlighted on our committee trip to Lofoten this spring. We visited Nordlense, and this was underlined by: Yes, we have competence, but it is challenging. The Christian People's Party sees it as very important to build up oil defence, and it has to be seen in the context of the Northern Region bet. I believe that there is room for North Norway to take a central position both internationally and nationally in terms of oil protection and its development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1158	Yesterday's debate on the petroleum law took an interesting turn when representatives Arnesen and Stroem came with their poorly hidden heart sighs about parties that one day are for ringing effects, and the next day goes against giving industry access to new promising sea areas. I understand this as a criticism of the government partners SV and the Center Party and great frustration that the Workers' Party has been put in check with the important question of opening new areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja. On the other hand, SV and the Senterpartiet have paradoxically agreed, and the same two batches have given a clear signal to leave the provisions on zero emissions. It is difficult to see the logic of such political manoeuvres. In examining the first Lofoten and Barents Sea Management Plan, a clear impression was created that the plan period was to be used for data collection to provide the Stortinget with the necessary decision-making basis for a follow-up to the impact assessment of the socket areas outside the North and South Troms. When we saw how the matter developed into a struggle for life and death in front of the government in 2009, we knew that the race was really over. The Workers' Party has sacrificed the impact assessment and has in reality exposed to a severe need for activity growth in a region characterised by stagnation and decline. I think the voters in the region have noticed that. The right considers that the time is overdue to launch a full impact assessment for the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. This is fully in line with local policy decisions, which have led to a minority of opponents. The right has listened to local politicians and the supplier industry, who see exciting opportunities for a region that needs more bones to stand on than tourism and fish. To the right, the State considers that the role of facilitating the maximum ring-effects of opening up petroleum activities in Northern Ireland VI, VII and Troms II is essential and has proposed a 5 billion LoVe fund. kr. The purpose of the Fund is to stimulate the development of infrastructure and the enhancement of competences built up under new activity in the wake of activity on the outside. We have to be aware of the environmental challenges we face further north. Therefore, the right will focus on modern and future-oriented oil protection preparedness, adapted to the weather and climate in the north. In addition, a lifting of the oil protection system would mean an increased preparedness in the event of shipwreck, which is currently the real and greatest environmental threat. The government points to the north as the government's strategic interest area and has built up high expectations of the population, supplier industry and other industrial interests in the north. But today it is a moment of truth, when many disappointments must realize that they were waved off in the last turn and just before the finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1175	In 2001, exploration outside the Lofoten in Northern Ireland VI was stopped by the then Minister of Environmental Protection. The protests had become strong. It turned out that the drilling at the time was not sufficiently prepared for thorough and professional assessments, nor did it have sufficient legitimacy in the public domain. There was a massive demand that impact studies be carried out and that we have to have a management plan for the area in order for the activity to continue. The Sem declaration of the same harvest and the Bondevik II government were a breakthrough for the management of the marine environment in Norway. There was a requirement for an impact assessment of all-year petroleum activities in the north. An overall management plan for the northern seas was also announced. It has resulted in constructive cooperation across sectoral authorities over many years, precisely to ensure good management of the marine environment. It has also led to a political discussion in a new framework on the road choices to be made in the marine environments of the north. Across sectors, an overall management plan has been established, where an ecosystem-based approach is the basis for the policy balances to be made. However, the professionally sound basis does not deprive politicians of responsibility for taking the final decisions and making the final balances between different considerations. One of the main reasons is humility for the responsibility we have when managing the marine environment, and the responsibility we have for future generations, not least humility for all that we do not have knowledge of, and perhaps never will come to know about the complexities of the marine ecosystem. Acute emissions remain the main challenge of petroleum activity in our marine areas. It is difficult to see good reasons for leaving the 50-kilometre belt in the coastal zone along Troms and Finnmark with regard to petroleum activities. It is strange to see SV, as when this work started, was in the opposition – aggressive opposition – to what the Bondevik II government did, and it is difficult to see the professional and environmental reasons for what is now happening. You have to ask yourself that when you hear the representative of Thorkildsen, who almost denies responsibility to the oil industry, while the government stands for a record in the distribution of extraction permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1186	It's not surprising, as a contrast to praise, that more people in this room are in many ways making these regions very stupendous. I kind of get a little offended when you characterize the important, viable region that Lofoten is like it's done here in the hall today. The lofoot is one of the spearheads of Norwegian travel life, and where the largest cod fishing in the world is going on. The decline in the population is not unique in this country. And neither is it for Lofoten, who struggles to keep the kids. It is largely done throughout the country, with few exceptions. The representative from Finnmark said that it is not the case that the peripheral municipalities will grow due to possible oil activity. As the only representative from the Lofoten and the Vesterål, it is natural that I take the floor on this matter. Several people today have talked about the vulnerable areas in general, but Lofoten in particular. But what is the word vulnerable — vulnerable to oil spills, pollution? In my view, the train was driven a long time ago. Activities south and north of these areas are open. Why has there not been the same commitment when fields have been opened near these vulnerable areas? An emission further south for us in Helgeland may have major consequences for Lofoten. It can fill the Westfjord. What I know is the most demanding thing in this area, the Lofoten and the Vesterålen, is the narrow base – no doubt – a base that is covered with fishing grounds, and which is the spawning area for many species, especially for the screams. It is important to ensure that fisheries and other industries are protected in the best possible way in the future, not least by their local anchoring and good processes. A knowledge-based approach to good governance of these areas is important. It is important to receive answers as to whether there is a possibility of co-existence with industry in general, and not least with the fishing industry. It's going to be demanding, but in my view it's not completely impossible. In any case, it will require special driving rules for these areas in relation to the intensive fishing activities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1200	I do not want to withdraw this debate, but I took note of the words of the representative of Aspaker about me and the Labour Party in this specific matter. This government has facilitated good development in the oil and gas industry. There's never been more activity on the socket than it is now. Both the oil industry and the supplier industry are in good growth, and the future is viewed positively. On the other hand, the representative Aspaker should look back at the time during the Bondevik II government, where things happened much less, and where the Right along with the Christian People's Party and the Left probably had not done so well with their policies. Therefore, there was relatively little happening at that time. I am firmly behind the line the sitting government has in this matter, but I want progress, and this I perceive that a large majority of the population agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1209	This is also going to the representative of Aspaker. As it is right now, and with the resources and resources we have put into the knowledge acquisition, I am less concerned with the name, but more concerned with the content. If you haven't brought it, this acquisition of knowledge that we're doing now can be used in an impact assessment quite quickly. That also means that we're saving time. If you listen to the industry and listen to those who have been involved in this in the future in relation to the management plan and the consultation rounds, it is very well received. It's history falsification when you say that business doesn't benefit from it. There's a lot of activity on Helgeland, there's a lot of activity along the coast, and there's a lot of people involved in this thing that's going to happen along this axis now. So it was very well received. When there was no impact assessment, at least a knowledge acquisition is a good contribution to finding a good solution. And one must have a huge problem within the Right in terms of the relationship with the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1216	I think this debate reveals and illustrates the problems within the government. In fact, there is a lot of agreement, but there is also an agreement in an overall opposition. However, in terms of impact assessment, the two previous speakers have been in the media again and again before the government presented its management plan and said that there has to be an impact assessment. We have to get it into the formal areas in order to take the next step. And then you see how partisanism swings, and the representatives of this region stand loyally behind the government and talk about that it doesn't mean anything what it's called, the most important thing is that one does a knowledge acquisition. In fact, formally speaking, it means something about the knowledge acquisition that has the title ‘consequence investigation’ at the top or not. It's got it. Then you might try to talk away from it, but the realities don't change even if you have a need to defend that one didn't get an internal breakthrough in his own government. I note that SV maintains that in 2013 they will not be in favour of an impact assessment. For the voters who want to do business outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, it means that if we are to benefit from the knowledge that is now being acquired, they must vote in the Advance Party or the Right. If they want nothing to happen, they can vote in the Labour Party or in the other red-green parties. I also withdraw the parallel as we processed the oil message in June 2004. Then the situation was the opposite. Then the Bondevik government asked to make three test drillings, and waited for the results of their contents before making a decision. Then the Workers' Party was very clear that: No, it was not wise to wait for such knowledge. Here it was just to get started, because now one had to move on. Sylvia Brustad, then spokesman for the Workers' Party, said that this is only about internal medicine in the Bondevik administration. Then the Workers' Party itself gets power, and they're not willing to use it or they're not able to use it. That's their problem. We have a clear alternative and have argued well for it. Then I get a little hint at the rhetoric of SV, especially the Minister for the Environment, when he gives the impression that all the solutions for the Progress Party in business in North Norway are about oil. No, it doesn't, but oil is one of the most important nutritional solutions. However, look now at the differences in reality between what the Progress Party argues for and what SV argues for. The Party of Advancement has, of course, come to a terrible length. I didn't think I would say that in this pulpit when I was in a campaign with Hallgeir Langeland in 2005 and 2009. But SV now supports all oil projects in the north, except the Lofoten and the Vesterålen. But the Lofoten and the Vesterål are in SV's eyes so marginal on resources that it means nothing, ergo in volume we are equal. It's just that, as if SV is very different, it's just ugly to hang out at the Advance Party. So I am happy about SV's migration, and would like to welcome them to good oil fairs in Stavanger for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1229	The representative Lillian Hansen was critical that the Lofoten area was presented as stupendous. I want to say, at least from the Right, that we don't see the Lofoten area as being stupendous. But no one can in any way ignore population development, the development of demographics, which means that this area has some challenges in which we, on the right, see that opening up the area outside oil and gas activity could lead to a completely different optimism in these local areas. So to the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen, who says that there has never been more activity on a Norwegian base than is the case today. I understand that the representative is fighting bravely for what is the government's view in relation to the conclusion of the impact assessment, but the activity that is on Norwegian pedestal today, thanks to previous political decisions, is many years back in time. What is our criticism of the issue of impact assessment and of the government's going for a postponement is that today we are not taking action to ensure that we are both able to maintain activity when we arrive in 2018 and 2020, and that we are able to send clear signals to Europe and other important markets that Norway should deliver volume not least within gas, for decades to come. The emergency unit shown by the government here is going to have to pay this country and our industry for when we get to 2018 and 2020 and later than that. Therefore, we had expected from the Right and hoped that the government would be able to take a better step to exploit the resource potential that lies beyond the Lofoten and the West. That is why we are a little disappointed at what is expected of the majority in this House today to decide to postpone the issue of impact assessment. To the representative Tor-Arne Stroem, who believes that the Right must have major problems with the Christian People's Party and the Left in these questions, I would say again that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown that we are able to find good solutions. One of the first things we did during the time of the Bondevik II government was to give a clear signal to the development of Snow White, with all the good ringing effects this has had locally, and as also representatives from, among others. The center party, which was actually against the Snow White expansion, today stands and roses in the clouds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1238	I just need to make a short comment. It is really a paradox for me, after listening to the debate today, that representatives from the Labour Party are up here to defend how much is being opened, and talk about how little happened under the previous government. While no one from SV is up here to defend why they can accept the sales they swallow of all the environmental victories that the Christian People's Party and Left had in Bondevik II, while also choosing to open many vulnerable areas in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1243	Let me just repeat the most important thing now at the end of the debate, namely that the Storting on this matter has found a national compromise – a compromise where different industries can be brought forward in a balanced way. Yes, oil and gas industry, and yes, Ketil Solvik-Olsen: I like to attend the oil trade fair in Stavanger. I have participated in such fairs. I was even just opening such a trade fair in Ghana, just to facilitate an oil and gas industry that operates in an environmentally sound manner. But it doesn't have to drill absolutely everywhere. And if there's one area along the coast that it has to be possible not to open, then that's the most vulnerable area from an environmental point of view, that's the Lofoten and the Vesterål. But we also have an oil and gas industry, and yes, travel life – I am amazed that right-wing talk down the importance of travel life instead of seeing how important travel life is – and yes, a fishing industry, which is the most important cultural carrier along the coast, but all of this within an environmentally sound framework. But what still remains as the great paradox in the debate, which it must be allowed to point out – I understand that the Right Party and the Progress Party are getting mad for it – is that the Right Party and the Progress Party in replicas to the SV have used this debate to hammer on the fact that SV has overrun the Workers Party when we have reached a national compromise, and in replies to the Workers' Party say that the Workers' Party has been overrun by the SV and the Centre Party when we have reached a national compromise. And then it is said by Solvik-Olsen that if you want to start oil and gas operations quickly after the 2013 elections, you have to vote on the Right and the Advance Party. Then it must mean one of two: either it means that the Right Party and the Right Party have not intended to invite the Christian People's Party and the Left into a government, or it means that the Advance Party and the Right have not intended to take into account the view of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Now, speaking after speeches from the Christian People's Party in this case, they have said that they are 99 pst. Agreed with the government. They agree with the government that we need a national compromise. They agree with the government that we should not open up oil and gas operations in Lofoten and the West Bank. Doesn't the Right Party and the Advance Party hear what they're saying? Don't they want to hear what the Christian People's Party and the Left are saying? Or have they just thought of exceeding the Christian People's Party and the Left in such a government formation? This must be allowed to be pointed out, and we must be able to get an answer. Is the answer that you intend to go to government without the Christian People's Party and the Left, or is the answer that you intend to outrun the Christian People's Party and the Left or not listen to what they say and not count them as independent parties with your own opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1254	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1257	It says a little about how little the government has to deliver when he spends a terrible lot of his speaking time on a hypothetical issue about what a government platform that will take over after the red-green government in 2013 looks like. Of course, we respect each other. We have to negotiate. But just like this government sometimes sets each other free, it's actually an opportunity. We're going to respect the Christian People's Party, and I'm sure that the Christian People's Party and the Left will respect where the great majority is. I am also convinced that when a Progress Party – Right-Registration in 2013 promotes proposals in this Chamber that one should start with an impact assessment, then very large parts of the agreement that Solheim claims to be in this Chamber will come to support that proposal. That's why I'm not worried about a speck of what the Council of State is talking about, because the majority is of a different opinion than what the vote result will show today. That's the point. The Labour Party has promised in the election campaign that things will happen, and when they have the chance and power, they won't let it happen anyway. Then there has to be an alternative in place for those who want things to happen right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1264	I think it has been a good debate on the management plan. There have also been indications of debates on future government cooperation, past government cooperation and current government cooperation. I just want to stress from the Christian People's Party what was the clear message of the Christian People's Party that day the government presented the management plan, that the cod, the seabirds and the vulnerable natural area of Lofoten, the Western Sea and Senja are safe, and you can feel safe if the Christian People's Party is in government after 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1269	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4864]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1285	First, let me thank the Committee for constructive work on the subject and thank the National Audit Office for a good and important report. The starting point in Norwegian school is that each student should receive an equivalent and inclusive and adapted training. It's a principle that it might seem that there's some sinning against it. In order to fulfil the right to equivalent, inclusive and adapted training, students with specific needs shall be granted the right to special education. The National Audit Service believes that the right to special education in the Training Act § 5-1 is the most central rule of the law. Those to be granted special education are those students who do not receive a satisfactory benefit from regular training. The issues examined by the National Audit Office are the extent to which pupils with special needs are guaranteed an equivalent training offer and the extent to which the Ministry of Knowledge facilitates the provision of pupils with specific needs of equivalent training by the municipalities. The study reveals that there are significant weaknesses in compliance with the rules of procedure for special education and in the award, planning and follow-up of special education. Today it's about 8 pst. by primary school students receiving special education. There are wide variations between municipalities in the proportion of pupils with special education, and the Committee is concerned that all the members of the population interviewed in the survey consider that economic considerations are important in the provision of special education. This may mean that students who are objectively in need and entitled to special education do not receive it for financial reasons. The Committee points out that a municipality cannot refuse special education requirements on the grounds that there is no funding for it. The process up to a single decision on special education is likely to be long and heavy for many. After this case was brought forward, I have been contacted by quite a number of parents who have many and different stories about long waiting time and a continuing struggle to obtain the right to special education and then to maintain the scope of it after a decision has been taken. The National Auditor has found out that 70 pst. PP services have a waiting time of more than three months. 25 pst., one out of four, has a waiting time of over six months. In addition, the time it takes for an actual applicant for special education and the time following the decision before implementation. The Committee considers it critical that the time period for the expert evaluation is too long and asks the Ministry to consider proposals for the legalisation of the maximum duration of treatment. Furthermore, the Committee finds it critical that there are shortcomings in very many individual decisions and training plans. The Committee also criticises the lack of reporting in this area. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the Ministry of Knowledge has a responsibility to ensure that national leadership is followed up. In this context, the Committee shall refer to the Notification. St. 18 for 2010–2011 where this has been followed up to some extent, but the Committee does not go further into the concrete points of the Storing Communication and refers to the discussion of the Church, Education and Research Committee. The Committee's position is otherwise unanimous at all points. I now let it fall a few words on behalf of the Advancement Party. Firstly, it is a major challenge for students who have the right to special education to experience that it is very demanding to have this right fulfilled, not only because it takes a long time, but also because they experience being countered by the school and the municipality during the process. In addition, it has apparently become a problem that a right that has been granted is almost disputed in the following school year because budget cuts have been imposed at school. So that means that students who have been given the right to special education have to go for new rounds in order to retain this right. It is, in my opinion, serious and a breach of the provisions of the Training Act on the right to special education. Parents and students who experience this must not give up. Of course, they must use both judicial and administrative facilities, and also local school officials, or pressurise government councils through their own trustees, because it is necessary to maintain a focus on the fact that a given right should be maintained until the court lapses because it is no longer needed. It is not acceptable for the students with the greatest needs to be the ones that are given the lowest priority. The second point is that a dummy can solve all these challenges only by imposing deadlines. There is a need for more skills and not least for faster efforts. Some years ago, Norway adopted the term ‘early work’. The aim was for an early detection of the need for special adaptation, and to provide students with assistance to ensure that they were provided with knowledge gaps and specific needs as quickly as possible, and then to be returned to normal, adapted training as soon as possible. Of course, this should only apply to the students for whom it is feasible. There is a diversity of pupils who are entitled to special education, and there are some who need it throughout schooling for health reasons. But all the others need to be sought back in regular training. The right to speedy implementation is then crucial as to whether it can be successful or not. It is very serious when you experience that there is also insufficient control of the benefit of special education. So one doesn't really follow up on whether the student has the benefit that one expects from special education, and one might wonder why. Control of the effectiveness of special education and training must of course be carried out. Target requirements and expectations for professional implementation must be set for all pupils receiving special education and one must examine the learning outcomes in the course of their studies. That the municipalities are too bad to follow up on this is very serious, and it goes beyond the possibilities that these students have. Finally, I have to comment briefly on a year-long struggle that this house, actually assembled, has led to the reproduction of social differences in school. Although a person has made a certain effort to prevent the school from reproducating differences, we see that it is still the clear rule. One reason is likely to be that municipalities are too slow to provide students with the education they require to ensure the right to an equivalent, inclusive and adapted training course. It's a problem that one has to take further seriously in this house, completely independent of the lot color.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1315	Let me first thank the case rapporteur, who is also committee chairman, for a very good piece of work as usual. So I want to say in the beginning that we have two documents. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has dealt with Document 3:7 for 2010–2011, but I would like to stress that we have also had access to much of the time we have dealt with Document 3:7, including Report. St. 18, Learning and Community, from the Ministry of Knowledge. And I would like to think that the most important issues that have been addressed in the National Audit Office's document have been discussed and dealt with in the Report. St. 18. As far as I understand, but it will certainly be the case that representatives of the Church, Education and Research Committee will underline afterwards, it is the case that the Church, Education and Research Committee has dealt with and presented in the Chamber today, a small part of the Report. Article 18, while much of it concerns the issues raised in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is to be addressed for the autumn. The foundation of our school policy is the principles of the common school, i.e. the right of everyone to appropriate training in a coordinated common school system based on national standards and the balanced allocation of resources, with local variation and the care of individual and adapted needs of students. The Joint School is also a meeting place for children from different environments, ethnic groups and social groups. This is essential in an increasingly diverse society — or to quote the very first sentences of the report. St. 18, Learning and Community, from Halvorsen State Council: ‘The Norwegian education system is common to all and binds us together. It is rooted in traditions and common values and shall equip us for the future." Adapted training is the school’s response to ensure that students receive the best possible benefit from the training. Adapted training is about creating a good balance between the abilities and assumptions of the individual student and the community. Then it is that students who do not – or cannot – have a satisfactory benefit from the training, as the case-rapporteur emphasised, have the right to special education under the Training Act §5-1. In the current school year, nearly 5,000 pupils have individual decisions on special education. That's a lot of kids. That's 8.4 pst. by all students. Before decisions are taken by the municipalities, expert judgement shall be required on the specific needs of the students. It shall be done by the local PP service. The Directorate-General for Education believes that the three-month period of proceedings is too long. This is what an overall committee agrees to. The Ministry also shares that view in its comments on the Riksrevision report. It will also be made clear in the Report. Article 18 states that the government will take action against a long period of time. The Committee also requests, in its observations, that the Ministry assess the legalisation of the maximum duration of treatment. Let me so underline that it is not free today for the municipalities to spend as long as they want. The law grants students the right to special education, which must be established within a reasonable period of time. This, of course, must also have consequences for the proceedings. So this is a right given to the students, and I would like to stress what the rapporteur said that those who have been given this right must, of course, get the help they need. It must not be such that they lag behind, and it must not be such that they fall out again, so that parents must strive again to get into a difficult system. It is not least because it is very important that the same students, after having been in special education for a while, are integrated into the regular, adapted teaching. I would like to stress that as strongly as I can. A good part of the weaknesses pointed out in the Riksrevision report have been addressed in the Report. St. 18. And as I said at the outset, most of that communication will be dealt with by the specialist committee for the autumn. The Communication proposes a number of measures to strengthen the response chain. The Ministry of Knowledge will also launch the programme We are breaking borders, a measure to increase expectations, awareness and competence of learning and development for students with major complex learning difficulties and development barriers. As I said, since the communication and document came almost simultaneously, the main issues related to the documents of the National Audit Office will be dealt with by the Scientific Committee. It is the Church, Education and Research Committee that must propose the concrete measures and make concrete proposals. It is not the responsibility or task of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Finally, the aim must continue to be to provide as many students as possible with training in the context of the regular, adapted training. Meeting all students with respect means facilitating all students to experience everyday school life as meaningful. This means that the training shall be adapted to the individual student. Report. St. 18 is an important document in this way and a good follow-up to the National Audit Office's document.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1346	The rapporteur has given a good account of the substance of the matter. There is no doubt that the Riksrevision has pointed out – and has – quite a number of critical remarks about how special education works today, or rather does not work. Taking into account the more than 50 000 students this applies every day, and the large funds, estimated at between 6 and 8 billion. kr, granted for this purpose, it must be fair to say that the review of the Riksaudition is useful and important and that it has been absolutely necessary. It's a great cross of thought that school contributes so much to the reproduction of social differences. For a long time, there has been an important policy objective to ensure that schools have the opportunity to balance social disparities, so that the background, history and ballast of the pupils are not decisive for their ability to reach out and to achieve the maximum benefit of the training they are offered. The right to individual training and special education is therefore essential to ensure that children have the same opportunities as possible in their lives. The National Audit Office's remarks show that unfortunately we have failed to organize special education to the extent that we should. Several have said that about 8 pst. special education is given by primary school students. The National Audit Office has re-documented what we know, that the scope of special education varies in an unexplained way between municipalities, and that there are clearly very different practices, despite the fact that students are initially provided with the same rights. It is a challenge that municipalities interpret, understand or apply the law so differently. The national audit also shows that inequalities have only increased in recent years. These are matters that are serious and cause for concern, and which, in the right, therefore, the Department considers that there is a need to go into more detail. The Training Act is clear that a municipality cannot refuse special education requirements for economic reasons. This is a student's right regardless of the municipality's budget. Nevertheless, once interviewed and in dialogue with the National Audit Office, the members of the public have pointed out that they believe that economic considerations are relevant to the way in which special education is given. This has been pointed out by an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs as being very worrying, because that means that the intention of the law and the right of students is not actually fulfilled. The National Audit Office’s investigation has also revealed that the procedural deadlines are alarmingly long and must be said to be far beyond what can be described as sound. When there is to be an expert assessment under the authority of the PP service before a special education decision is taken and when the treatment period for the 70 pst is reached. of the cases are more than three months and for 25 pst. is more than six months old, which means that many young people have to wait too long for very important help. This could mean that they are sitting in the classroom day after day and have not benefited from the training they should have had. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has noted, and agreed, that the Directorate for Education says that a period of proceedings of more than three months is too long. So here it's a big potential for improvement all over the line, and here it has to do something. So problematic has the Committee considered the length of the procedure to be that the department has actually been asked to go in and assess whether a maximum legal time should be laid down. It must be possible to characterize it as a kind of rice behind the mirror in that way. There may be reason to ask whether the internal control system of local authorities operates in the field of special education when the failure to comply with the provision of the training law on special education is so evident. In this respect, it must almost be noted that there is hardly enough internal control in the municipalities. And it's paradoxical that it takes a national audit investigation to hang the bells on the cats and raise this issue the way it's done. The Committee has also noted that the National Audit Office’s study questions whether the Ministry of Knowledge has adequately respected its overall responsibility for the use and further development of instruments contributing to the provision of an equivalent primary school offer to students with special needs. So there's reason to ask if there's enough responsibility at several levels. I would like to refer to the representative Nybakk, who is quite right in saying that this problem complex will come back to its full breadth until the fall when we are going to deal with the other parts of the Report. St. 18 for 2010–2011, Education and Community. But I want to challenge the Council of States today, all the time it's actually an overall committee of control and constitution that's been standing behind the remark to ask the government to consider a law-making process, and actually ask her to comment on how she thinks the Department and the government can follow up that recommendation from the Stortinget. There is obviously a long way to go here, and it probably has to be more lenient than what we have today of tools, to make sure that this important right of Norwegian students can actually be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1375	It was just the unrest that Right has for the school to reproduce social differences, I would like to challenge Aspacer. If it were a real mess, would Right would have worked to make it less different in society and in school? And then you would have no privacy solutions, which would lead to a really big difference in the supply and thus the reproduction of the social differences. So I'm wondering a little bit about how this hangs in a bunch -- if one's now become a few with the red-greens that we're going to have a stronger public school, if one's gone away from the private school solutions that really get speed in the differences in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1380	It was an interesting line from the representative of Langeland. The fact is, 97 pst. by Norwegian students attend primary public schools. It is also a fact, if you look at satisfaction studies, etc., that private schools are not behind public schools in terms of the type of follow-up, training and outcomes students have of their offer. It may be more like in some cases that the private schools and students doing it better than those in public schools. So I think that the right to have a private school offer should still be there, but we have to focus on the whole line – and especially on the public school there 97 pst. students go — to fulfil the rights of students and to provide them with adequate and good training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1385	So no new tones.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1390	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1393	I really want to start where the line change ended. The representative Langeland should take a little tour of some of the private schools, as he says creates differences. Here in Oslo, very many of the private schools are schools with a high proportion of students who need special education, precisely because their parents have been frustrated by the offer they have received in public schools. So, conflicts between parents and the public school on the organisation of special education are, in fact, very often – at least what I know here in Oslo – a reason parents choose another school. Then we come back to the parents' right to choose something other than the public, which is the basic human right that is the left's starting point for the free school policy. It is also a small warning that special education does not always work well in public schools. It's a warning about the way we organize it. The Catholic St. Sunniva School has been one of the largest Muslim schools in Oslo for periods, because it is very good at bilingualism. It is a school established for Italians who migrated to Norway just after the turn of the century. The school was very good at teaching students who have Norwegian as a second language — so good that very many parents who have migrated to Norway, also with a different language background than Italian, chose the school because it was good at that. Special education is a good approach to the discussion about fresh oils because so many choose it for students with special needs. Special education is a field where we have to stretch to succeed. I believe there are many problems in the way we organize it today. It's extremely bureaucratic. We have a bureaucratic process that first uses professionals on paper, and second, just focuses on the negative of the students. A teacher who wants the most resources for his student — and who really understands that the student needs help — needs to show that the student needs a lot of help, and then it has to be argued with everything that goes wrong. It's a basic destructive tone to use to the students, I mean. The second is that it takes a long time. The third is that for some parents it's a fight for a diagnosis, but for other parents it's a fight against a diagnosis. Thinking that one or the other thing is solving this is not right. I don't think we should have such a strong focus on diagnostics that we've had in special education until now, as sometimes it's fooled the aid as much as it's helped. The last is competence. The left has a campaign now, where we will visit 700 schools in a few weeks – and we will soon be on target. We're going to have a summary for the weekend. What teachers often tell us when we travel around is that they are assigned to special teaching tasks that they feel they are not competent to. They are good teachers in their trades, but they become, for example, assigned to autistic students or students with other types of disabilities with whom they do not feel competent to work. It doesn't help how good Norwegian teachers you are if you don't know what autism is. That gap of competence is perhaps the greatest challenge we face in special education. Many people experience special education as stigmatisers. I've talked to a lot of people like me – e.g. in my class – not remembering special education, but the image of not being good at math was something you brought with you throughout your education, because of the year you received a little extra help. When I was a school manager in Oslo, Minister of Education Trond Giske demanded that all teaching of all minority language students be defined as special education by single decision. I'm very happy that we managed to stop it. It helps to stigmatize and make things difficult, where there is no basis for it. The fact that a young person is able to add a language is hardly what is needed to be defined as a basis for special education. What we are discussing here today is a national audit report that is quite dramatic, both in terms of procedural offences, and the other things you point out. Then Elisabeth Aspaker said that the municipalities have poor internal control. No, that's not how I see it. When I talk to the local government representatives of the Left, this is one of the numbers that they first have on their tongue, and that they want to do something about. They all know about the deadlines within their own municipality – and fights like that just to do something about it. I think this is something that local politicians have high on the agenda, but it is difficult to find the good solutions within today's system. The left has also stood behind this. If we are to maintain everything in today's system, we will probably also have to have a deadline, sail if I don't think it will solve the problem. More temptations and more bureaucracy probably don't. But I think we have to look at the whole way we organize this, and then differentiate between those who need some help, and those who have a serious disability – and who need a special organized school day based on it. There are two different considerations to consider here. We're going to sum up what our visit to 700 schools has led to, to the weekend. Then we will also have some good answers when we process the message for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1423	I intend to keep my post a little close to what is the committee's consideration of the Riksrevision report, but I can't help but comment a little on the general debate on special education. I think it is reassuring that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the Grand Duchy is also concerned about these issues and shows good insight into the matter when it is being discussed. This is a major and important theme for a very large number of local government representatives and everyone working in Norwegian primary school. But it is not that the starting point for the debate is that the more special education is the better the offer. There are strikingly large differences between schools and between municipalities in the field of special education, and it is linked to the success of appropriate training at an early stage. What is a theme for this big-mouth message to be addressed for the autumn, and as the government has just presented, is that we see in Norway the youngest children receive at least special education, and the oldest children receive the most. We know how vital it is with early efforts to get back on track in a learning process, and an important background for this big message is the desire to be able to turn this around. A central proposal is that the municipalities and schools should – once you see that there is a child with some special challenges – initiate the measures you yourself have in mind, while the PP service is working to determine what might be the basis for a decision on special education. For this debate on private schools or not: Yes, it is true that the size of private schools in Norway is small. It's a red-green policy. It's because we blew out the law on high school and have concentrated the possibility of setting up private schools for religious or pedagogical alternatives. If the Law had been implemented, where everyone could start and claim state aid, there would have been a completely different level of private schools. The main challenge in a distribution perspective — and the pattern in countries with high levels of private schools — is that there are resource-intensive parents who choose private schools. There is a two-way street, and therefore there are major differences in the education system. There may now be various reasons why some parents who have children in need of special education apply to different private schools in Norway. Dissatisfaction with the offer and preference, for example: Steiner-pedagogics over the pedagogics that prevail in primary school, I often hear as arguments for it. I am very pleased that the Stortinget clearly believes that the consideration of the most vulnerable children in Norwegian school should weigh heavily. It is not that the local economy should be able to thwart the needs of children in this context. I am also pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is so clear that the objections raised by the Riksrevision in this work will be raised. I'm taking it with me as an important drag help in relation to how we're going to work on this. Special education is a central student's right for the children, the students, who need it. This is how many people have pointed out that in this area we face major educational, practical and administrative challenges. This is precisely why the government of Stoltenberg II in 2007 reduced the so-called Midlyng Committee, which was mandated to go through very carefully what was the situation: the place of special education in Norwegian school, and what to do with the challenges facing it. In view of this NOU, which was delivered in 2009, we have recently submitted a Communication to the Stortinge, which reviews the situation and proposes measures. We will immediately return to a chapter of this message today. But the main actions, and the main approach to all of this, are about a strong desire to reorganise Statped so that the services of Statped come closer to the municipalities and that the services of PP come closer to the schools, that is. the competence of the schools and children facing challenges in this area. The National Audit Office’s examination of special education in primary school, which is now under consideration, has a factual basis for following up the procedural requirements for special education in the municipal sector, which in many ways provides a reasonably comprehensive picture of the situation. It builds up to a large extent under both the Mid-Lyng Committee and the Ministry’s own knowledge base — not least the results of the national supervision carried out by the Ministry. The results of national inspections have been discussed, inter alia: in the annual budget proposals from the Government to the Stortinget. However, there are nuances in the facts that I want to mention. As regards the duration of the PP service, Nordic research carried out a study on this subject in 2009 on the basis of a mandate from the Directorate of Education. It gives a different and better impression of the period of proceedings in the municipalities than the Riksrevision study shows. The Ministry has explained this to the National Audit Office, and there is reason for us to look into what is the reason why we get different answers to questions, even if the questions are the same. In any case, the time taken to deal with the case and other matters such as: the study of the National Audit Office reveals important aspects of legal certainty which require further follow-up by the Ministry. I want to make sure that the Storting is properly informed about the follow-up. I have noticed that the committee believes the ministry should consider proposals for the legalisation of the maximum time for proceedings. In Report. According to an overall assessment, St. 18 for 2010–2011, it is concluded that we do not propose this now. It is difficult to set absolute deadlines that are not dependent on closer assessment in each case. The quality of the decisions to be taken is therefore also essential in the context of the wider process. But that doesn't mean it's free to do what you want. This means that the Administrative Act also applies in this area. I am reasonably sure that we will come back to that issue even when we are dealing with the message in Stortinget. But I agree with the representative, Aspaker, who says that the wording contained in the comments of an overall committee must act towards us and towards the municipalities as a rice behind the mirror in that the Stortinge has ambitions for children to have decisions that are operational and that will give them the help they need, within a three-month deadline. So I'm absolutely sure it's going to work the way I expect the Control and Constitutional Committee to think it should work. I also see that there is broad consensus in the opinion of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that there is reason to believe that the proposed measures in the Report are appropriate. Article 18, Learning and community, overall, will lead to better provision for those who need special education. In the Communication, we propose a series of measures that will strengthen the response chain: the reorganisation of the State-specific educational support system, which I have been in, the extension of continuing training for teachers, the strengthening of school assessment practices, digital guidance material with templates, routine descriptions and examples, parental posters with an overview of rights and opportunities for user involvement, and clarification of what is permitted as an assistant. So since we have more opportunities to come back to the content of the message itself, I'm content to say that I'm glad that there is such a broad consensus on these issues in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 4864]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1487	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1496	I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation on the setting of Chapter 6 of the Report. Article 18 on learning and sharing and setting of Document 8:122 S. We have chosen to take Chapter 6 of the Communication before the other chapters, because it concerns the organisation of the State Support Facility, and it is important since the harvest. We look forward to receiving the rest of the big message in the fall session. Luckily, we have come a long way since the Act on the Education of Abnorms Children of 1881 and the separation paragraphs in the National School Laws of 1889. These laws put children with disabilities and children with special needs for organisation on the outside of the so-called primary school. At that time, the common perception was that the so-called abnormal children did not belong in normal school, both for school reasons, which they thought should not care for other people than normal children, and for the sake of the children, which they thought would not get anything out of there. A distinction was made between the educationally educated and non-educatively obscene children, who were cared for and cared for. Today it is a goal to have a school that is common and inclusive, and that training and education are equivalent to all children, regardless of their starting point, and that, as far as it can be done, children get help where they are. The matter we are dealing with today, such as: is about the organisation of Statped, has an important role to play in that work. In this context, it is important that municipalities and county councils, schools and students have equal access to the necessary support from Statped and that support must be of high quality. The entire Committee sees the need for the reorganisation of Statped. Statped shall become a clearer and more accessible service provider. They shall have the necessary top competence and contribute to the dissemination of knowledge and competences and shall cooperate with the higher education sector in the field of the preservation and development of new knowledge. These are objectives agreed by the Committee. The question is how best to achieve the objectives. The majority of the committee, consisting of government parties, indicates that Statped should be organised in four regions: North, West, Middle and South East. The opposition parties are concerned about the size of the South-East region. This is also a issue discussed in the Communication. A thorough overall assessment of this organisation has been carried out. The need for peak competence and breadth, the benefits of having the same breakdown as health businesses, and having a good basis for cooperation with the UH sector are one of the priorities. Otherwise there will also be a branch office in Kristiansand, and it will be set up for trade unions in Holmestrand and Gjøvik. It is important for the Committee to ensure that highly specialised professional environments are maintained. There are slightly different opinions in the Committee on how this can best be done. Some professional environments are so small that responsibility for them will be added to a regional centre that will have nationwide tasks in these areas. Then there has been an ongoing discussion about the offer to hearing-impaired students, and a proposal has also been presented by the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party on this issue, which is being debated at the same time. The background is that there is a very small and decreasing proportion of hearing-impaired pupils in Norway at state primary schools for hearing-impaired pupils. We are concerned that these will receive a good offer. The Communication proposes to wind up the state offerings in Holmestrand, Oslo and Bergen, while the school in Trondheim will be maintained to ensure sign language competence, the development of learning materials for hearing impaired persons and the responsibility for Norwegian character dictionary. All members of the Committee have received several requests from parents at Hunstad School and representatives of staff who have shared their concerns. There's feedback that we're taking seriously. The Ministry of Knowledge has been in dialogue with the municipality of Bergen and has put in place an agreement to set up a municipal hearing service, so that the students who have been associated with Hunstad School will get a good offer when Hunstad is laid down. In the future, hearing competence shall be built up in all Statped regions. In conclusion, of course, such reorganisations must always be followed closely over time to ensure that the desired results are achieved. I assume that this will of course also be the case for the Ministry in all the areas covered by Chapter 6. The student's learning is what should be in the center. These students, too, have many possibilities, not just limitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1532	I guess I think it's worth thanking the presidency for actually giving us the opportunity to deal with this matter, which according to the government hastened a little, while at the same time spending more time on the major, important challenges of special education. At the latest today, the Education Directorate presented the 2011 Education Mirror. The trend is not reversed, rather on the contrary. We spent the last year of school with 17 pst. by all means in primary school for special education. Between eight and ten. step was 20.4 pst. So one of the five dollars we spend in primary or secondary school, we're going to use special education. Now we're going to discuss how to reverse this trend when dealing with the rest of the case, but it illustrates that what we're discussing now, the reorganisation of Statped's services, is important for many students and for resource use. Since the Education mirror arrived today, I think we can associate a comment with one point there, namely that only 25 pst. by the students, the time allocated to them shall be within the hour. I think that's one of the things we have to look at closer to the harvest. With regard to the reorganisation of Statped, there is a broad consensus in this room that follow-up of municipalities requires heavy competences – greater competence today than before – among others. Because we have ambitions to reach all the children. That is why we also agree that the reorganisation of Statped is essentially desirable. I think it is a little sad that you have not been able to reach a full agreement on this. There are two aspects to the opposition, and the Party of Advancement reacts in particular. One was the case rapporteur inside, Hunstad school. They say that now it's taken care of. I do not agree that it is taken care of today. When you know that this is a group of students who already have some challenges, why has the government chosen first to conclude that the school should be closed, and then to engage in dialogue with the municipality of Bergen? Wouldn't it have been a more sensible order, created more security for these students, if you had done this in the opposite order and started with the dialogue with the municipality of Bergen, started by making sure that the offer was established? I am also not sure that the solution chosen by the government is good enough. I believe that this is something the state should still have been responsible for. But it didn't. I hope, at least, that the Council of State is willing to take criticism of the process that has been going on. Then to a different point, when the health reform was carried out, it was concluded that Health East and Health South would be merged. I thought so far that all the political parties today realized was a loss. But now you choose to do the same with ‘Stateped Largest’ – what you set up today. So it's considerably larger than the other Statped regions. I don't see the need for that. I think it is important, on the one hand, to gather skills, but at the same time it is important that there is not too much distance from each municipality. I think that's going to be difficult to achieve with the Statped region that I call Statped the largest, which is going to cover the entire eastern region and the whole southern region. So a little bit of a worry, which maybe doesn't have to be any concern. Maybe we can clarify this today. For some groups, the competence environments are so small that there is no mention of regionalisation. On the other hand, there is fear of fragmentation. This applies both to the diagnosis of acquired brain damage and to the diagnosis of blind and partially syndicated brain damage. I hope the Council of State can reassure those who are concerned that these environments will be fragmented, by clarifying today whether or not the government will help to keep these important trade unions together. I would then like to promote the proposals for which the Progress Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1549	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1552	The notification of special education is a very important one because it concerns more than 50,000 primary school students as well as a large number of younger and older people with different degrees of special educational needs. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his cooperation and for a good account of the partial position that we are discussing today. The objective of an equivalent training provision imposes a major obligation on society to ensure that students with different types of special educational assistance can be provided with qualified assistance. Chapter 6 deals primarily with the content and organisation of the State Special Educational Support System Statped, which will be the right-wing backbone of Norwegian special education. This does not mean that Statped alone can do the job in relation to all those who need special pedagogical follow-up on a daily basis, but this is where the PP service in the municipalities should address when their competence is reduced. On the right, the link between high-quality special education and skills building at all stages — Statped, the PP service and the teacher at each school will be strongly underlined. This is a prerequisite for providing qualified assistance to the many who are entitled to, and need, follow-up in order to maximise the benefits of training. Many and complex assistance needs require considerable top skills in the state-owned special-pedagogical support apparatus. This is a responsibility the Ministry must take particularly seriously, because it is about Statped’s ability to provide proper and necessary support for the PP service and for the follow-up of individual users. At the same time, it is essential to facilitate the upgrading of the PP service. The right considers that there is a basic prerequisite for a division of labour where the PP service is able to be a schoolteacher and to care for the most common types of learning difficulties. There is a broad consensus on the proposed structure for the regionalisation of Statped. The right-hand side also supports multi-disciplinary efforts, because this means that people with complex needs for help can more easily get the help they need by turning to one place. However, at two points the opposition and the governmental parties separate layers. This applies for the first number of Statped regions, where government parties follow the government's proposal to regionalise Statped according to the model of the four regional health establishments. The right is committed to ensuring that the municipalities of the South and East countries have the best possible access to Statped regionally and therefore considers it appropriate to split the proposed Statped region south-east into two regions: Statped South and Statped East. The South currently has an established Statped environment in Kristiansand on which to build to ensure the multi-disciplinary nature of regionalisation. Another issue of disagreement in the case is the closure of state primary schools for hearing-impaired persons. Few things have created as much commitment as the government's proposal to shut down the state primary schools of the deaf. On the right, there is a strong understanding of the concern of hearing - impaired and deaf organizations and many parents for the future of deaf children. The right supports the idea that municipalities that want to do so and that have the prerequisites to do so will facilitate the training of deaf children in the home municipality or in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities. The right is also satisfied with the present Memorandum of Understanding between the State and the municipality of Bergen, but will point out that the quality of municipal school provision is largely based on the competence of the Statped West. It is a fact that access to special pedagogical competence is a scarce factor in Norway, and the Right is therefore in conjunction with the other opposition parties on a proposal that «is called upon by the Government so far to avoid the closure of state primary schools in the hearing area in order to ensure and maintain a quality training offer for children and young people, irrespective of their place of residence». The right is concerned that we should not throw the child out with the baby's water. We cannot allow ourselves today to set up state primary schools for the deaf when we do not know whether the children's home municipalities will be able to offer at least as well as the state primary schools are able to provide. It is not likely today that it will be possible to do so. The scope of special education is significant — in the number of persons entitled to such training and in resource use. Therefore, the right considers it important to increase research efforts in this field in order to ensure quality and further develop the special educational assistance provision in line with the needs of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1589	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Thank you for the wise input so far into the debate. As Elisabeth Aspaker emphasizes, there are two disagreements between position and opposition. I understand very well this discussion about the number of regions. I agree that the South East in many ways, in many ways, is a mastodont, but I accept the government's justification for keeping it. If we were to split it up, maybe I could think of dividing it into three-- we could also have the Inland as a region. The second discrepancy I understand less, because it kind of breaks with the whole principle here. Here we go from a situation where we have state special schools to a situation where we trust municipalities in close cooperation with state competence environments, that is. Statped. It is precisely the new solution that will provide the good new situation, which will improve the situation in relation to the current situation. Most young people, and most municipalities, have to bet on that solution anyway. So the fact that we were going to make an exception for certain institutions in a few cities -- maybe just in one city -- shirks me in relation to the main principle. The fact that this has not yet been launched is, like, something that is quite seaworthy, and that concerns the Storing Messaging Institute in general, for grossing-up messages to initiate some processes, will provide some leadership for some processes, and then all good forces will implement this gradually. In a way, it is unfortunate to divide the processing of a crash message into two. But at the same time, considering the amount of recordings and themes we've received, maybe this isn't the procedure so stupid anyway. For it is precisely the themes of Chapter 6 that have been particularly involved. I think – and I think all the committee members think – that this has been a demanding matter, not least because these recordings have been many, and they have been very critical both in form and content. There has been a very strong use of language, both orally and in writing. That's okay enough, for all things, but at the same time it makes it a little demanding for a politician to go into this debate. At the same time, it has been very interesting to get an insight into these meetings between disciplines, such as between health and education, between medicine and pedagogics, between special education and general education, and not least between users and professionals. I think one of the main problems for many here has been what is described in one of the hearing opinions: ‘The State Deaf Schools today provide world-class professional content and competence – why ruin this?’ One knows what one has, one doesn't know what one gets. When one adds this as I have already commented so far, that interest groups and user groups often have a very strong faith in everything state-owned, and they have an ingrained scepticism for everything that tastes of municipality. But as I said, in this case, I think it's very right that the group of students we're talking about here should also come into a normal situation, which is that school is basically a municipal problem. Human beings are municipal – as was said at one of the Statped centres that we visited along the way in the process. It is important to note that those who have gone the hardest on this, for example. The deaf association has stressed that they are not opposed to organization, but they lack some more time and some more clarity about what is to replace this. Then I think it is a pleasure that while we have been working on this issue, while we have been in this consultation phase, the department has put in place good agreements with municipalities around. The last, Hunstad school in Bergen, stands out to me as a particularly good solution, on which a sailor has spent some time, but where both the state and the municipality have shown goodwill and achieved goals, and arrived at goals before we had this debate here in Stortinget today. As I said, I really appreciate that. It shows that it is possible to put the good intentions and goals in the big message into life. So at the end, I think it's a bad 'health at home' politician, and therefore one should hear especially well after when I do it right now. It is linked to the Upperby Centre of Competence, which has been well mentioned in the main message related to a particular point competence and which has been rewritten in a good way in the setting here today. As I see it, Statped is looking forward to further developing and developing the competence environment, when you're going to put the big message into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1616	Today, when we deal with Chapter 6 of the Report. St. 18 for 2010-2011, Learning and Community, is with the following rug: Much works well, but we have a system challenge since the proportion of students with special education is increasing beyond school. Most people get a good offer, but we have some structures that allow responsibility to be pushed on, and it often takes too long before students are followed up. As a basis, we have, among other things: The Midlyng Committee's investigation and the National Audit Office's report on special education at school. The latter has just been debated in this Chamber. The exposure has been a key element in this matter. There have been many enquiries, questions and opinions. The hearing also showed with all clarity the width that this field engages. It is a sign of health and allows us, as politicians, to get a better view of the matter and to make better decisions. It is in the nature of the matter that there are many feelings related to the issues being raised, and sail if not everyone agrees with any of the proposals that are on the table today, there is a thorough work behind it, and the goal is a faster, better and more complete offer to the students concerned. For the Central Party, this is also an interaction reform. It is about a new and clearer interaction between state and municipality, between users, parents and the municipal and state support apparatus, and a better interaction within Statped. The reform is also decentralised by giving municipalities a clearer responsibility for the training, and we make the secondary school a real and good alternative for all students. It is good politics, in the view of the Centre Party, but requires a Statped that has a more outward role than today. At the same time, it is important to say that the principle of adapted training is the basic one, and we need to have a debate on the relationship between custom-made training and special education. There is a problem we will get back to its full width when processing the rest of the message in the autumn. The Central Party believes that the model of a regionalised and interdisciplinary Statped is reasonable. The mid-line selection points out that nationwide services in today’s structure tend to benefit the nearest areas. The new structure shall ensure that all regions have interdisciplinary competence, that their top competence serves all regions, and ensure equal access to Statped's support apparatus to all municipalities and counties. One of the most difficult considerations has been how to maintain peak competence, and it is in our view that seas of peak competence are administratively placed under a regional office, this does not necessarily involve a shift of professional competence. It is obvious that some environments with acute competence cannot be split up without it going across the intentions of the message, because they will then simply be confused. These must find their place in the new model and have a national responsibility. One of these disciplines is the Upperby Centre of Competence at Gjøvik, which since 1992 has built up a unique professional environment for acquired brain damage. Overby provides very good and necessary follow-up to a diverse user group with specific needs and has close cooperation with the other centres of expertise and, in particular, with healthcare businesses. The hearing also showed with all clarity the importance of preserving this strong professional environment. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee in the vote says that this professional environment must continue. Today's debate and decision is a milestone in a complex field of long history and great commitment. Early efforts for children, young people and adults have been discussed for years, and opinions have been, and are, many. I use the word'milestick' because, after the decision today and in the autumn, we must continue to follow developments closely and take proper political action in the future. It says that what stops getting better, stops being good, and in this field, the students deserve to know that we're getting better and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1635	This message concerns important and vulnerable students in our school, those students who, for various reasons, need help to learn and a little extra help to learn. Special education in the country is finally put on the agenda, and when we heard the previous case about the Riksrevision, it turns out that it really needs to be. Now we have the opportunity to do some action that will guarantee children and adults the support they need to function and to learn in school and in adult education. If we succeed here, we can create a good school. Today, we're just going to debate Chapter 6 of the Communication. I agree, in part, with the criticism that comes to us in Stortinget that when we finally have the opportunity to see all the special education at one time, the Stortinget only chooses to deal with the chapter on Statped now, a chapter that takes into account what the state support apparatus will look like in the future. The core of this support apparatus is Statped and the work is running there. Statped is an important tool to help students and to guide municipalities in facilitating good for their students. In its Communication, the Government proposes a comprehensive reorganization of Statped, from centres of excellence spread across the country to four multi-disciplinary regional centres. The Christian People's Party supports this way of reorganizing Statped, and we believe this will lead to better support for users and municipalities. It will also ensure competence and competence development across the country. But the Christian People's Party does not agree with the breakdown proposed in the Communication, i.e. in four regions according to the Health Business Model. Now we must have learned. It has been shown that this works very badly on health, and then we should not make the same mistake again. The largest region, south-east, will serve the area from Hedmark to West Agder, with a population of 2.5 million people. The centre will be responsible for 172 municipalities spread across large parts of our vast country. We can only imagine how many teachers are in attendance for all of these municipalities. The Christian People's Party is concerned that users and municipalities will get the help they need and have the right to, and that contact and follow-up will suffer because of the large distances. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to have rather five regions, keeping regions south and east separate. The Ministry has been, and writes in the Communication, that they are concerned about whether Statped South could have a basis for building up sufficient competence in all areas a region centre needs. This is with respect to report an incredibly arrogant attitude. Statped's centre in Kristiansand already has close and good cooperation with a university, University of Agder, and Sørlanden has several strong professional environments both within the PP service and other services that can be used to build a new and highly multi-disciplinary centre in the region. Another proposal that is being discussed in the communication now, but which has already been put into effect by the government, is the closure of state primary schools for hearing-impaired people. Even before the proposal was dealt with in the Storting, three of the four deaf schools have been notified of a stoppage of intake from the fall, to large protests from the parents and from the children themselves. Both full-time and part-time students want to keep this offer. Several have contacted us in the Committee in recent months. It's not right, as the representative Hadia Tajik said, that this only applies to students at Hunstad school. We have received enquiries from all the state schools that the government now wants to lay down. The families themselves stress that the deaf schools are like oases — some have even used the word crisis centre — that they can come to relax and feel completely included in a community. Those who attend school in the home municipality often labor in both teaching and social relations with the other students. As Susanne Solbakken said to Morgenbladet earlier in the spring: I'd rather be common in special schools than special in ordinary schools. These children need a place where they can communicate naturally with both teachers and fellow students. The need for this arena seems to increase the older the deaf children become. When games go over to conversation, the feeling of isolation increases. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the offer to these students now that the schools are being laid down, both for training and for formation, which is an important part of the school's purpose. When we also know that Statped, who is to help the municipalities build up an offer for the students at home school, is going through a major reorganisation, we believe that it is not proper to leave the deaf schools now. We therefore support the proposal not to put them down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1650	In my time at Stortinget, this is probably the first time we have dealt with a matter divided into two. I am pleased that the presidency gave us the opportunity, so that we might have a hurry with what the government was in a hurry to do, and that we are really working on the important, big questions that lie in the rest of the message, which we are coming back to the autumn, and which are also linked to the debate we had earlier today on the position of the control committee. The vast majority of what we are dealing with today is agreed, but the Left supports the opposition's suggestion that five regions would have been much better, and we will vote accordingly. What I want to focus on is child integration based on different assumptions. We have gone from a time of many large special schools, with slightly varying quality and slightly varying motivation, to a great degree of integration in ordinary school for all students regardless of background. For everyone, most people are good solutions. But sometimes it is that different children require slightly different solutions. Sometimes it's good to have a special school where you can relax. As one of the students I spoke to at a special school, said, "When you came back to your normal school, you were assigned a role as a bazaar and troublemaker, but when you were allowed to be in a different school environment, when you changed the school environment, you suddenly got another role that made it a little less stressful to be a seaman. I think this is an aspect that has been taken too little into account in the organisation of special education, but which is very well expressed by how to treat primary schools for hearing-impaired children. Being deaf is something else than having another disability. That's why you're using sign language as the main language. Sign language is an official language, such as Norwegian and Sami. That's the languages we have in Norway. When we decided here in this room a few years ago that sign language should be an official language, it was about taking care of a culture, taking care of a language, taking care of a competence and taking care of education within that language. One of the important things when revising the Municipality Budget in Oslo was that Oslo Left was able to benefit from support for the Doves Cultural Days. Not many people with disabilities have their own cultural days. There are not many disabilities where this is logical and reasonable to have. But as far as sign language is concerned, it has to convey that culture in that language, the culture of sign language, a self-esteem and a content of its own. That is why the Council of State should have had a much more calm treatment of these matters and not behaved to be deaf like any other disability – because the sign language is as special as it is, because sign language culture is as special as it is, and because deaf children can often feel more outside than those who have other disabilities. That's why the Left was involved in promoting the proposal to freeze and stop closures. This does not mean that good solutions cannot be found in other ways, but we have been seriously concerned about how to maintain the professional environment, how to maintain the community created by the deaf schools and how to take the decision here in this Chamber that sign language should be an official language. SV claims that man is municipal. I'll turn it around. I believe that it is the citizens of a society that owns its municipality, not the municipality that owns its citizens. That is why I believe that citizens should be heard, and they should feel that they own the Community solutions that are. It's clear that the way you're moving forward in sign language culture, in the case of deaf culture, and in the case of the deaf schools we've had, has made people feel that they're owned by the municipality, and not that they own the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1670	Inclusion is a fundamental principle of government education policy. The aim of inclusion is to meet children and young people with different social backgrounds and ethnic, religious and linguistic backgrounds in a kindergarten and a common school with high quality and high expectations of learning and development for all. Report. St. 18 is just about this. Today, we are going to deal with one part, Chapter 6, which is about the state support apparatus, about special pedagogical competence for the whole country, where Statped forms a large part and is part of a larger whole. That is why I want to raise the large picture very briefly in the beginning. The notification takes into account the regular training — how to facilitate early school and kindergarten efforts, learning and development. However, we know that some children need special assistance and support, and that is why there are three strategic approaches to improvements for the entire training sector. The first strategy is to catch up and follow up, because we do not know in advance which children, young people and adults may need some additional assistance — not always at least. The second strategy is targeted competence for enhanced learning outcomes, because there is a close link between the competences we put in and the learning outcomes we get. The third strategy is cooperation and coordination for better implementation. This is because we want the current skills in the Statped and PP services to be tested in schools and individual children with the challenges. This Communication is the first in the special field of education submitted since 1998 to cover the entire training cycle. There have been major changes in how we discuss children and people with special needs. We built out the state special schools from 1951. So, from 1969, when the Flower Committee came, it was set up to maximise the integration of as many as possible into ordinary schools. From 1987, they were entitled to attend the community school, and the closure of special schools — when many of those we are now discussing were transformed into centres of excellence — took place in 1992. So now we're dealing with the Midlyng Selection. It's been 20 years. We need to discuss how to improve this support system – because some children and young people will need specific assistance and support, because local levels will need assistance and skills that they themselves do not have, and because Statped has good food skills and is going to contribute to it. So what's the new Statped going to be? Let me first say that I'm glad that there's such a broad consensus in the committee on the main steps in this. Then there are two areas that have not been fully agreed on in this chapter. But let's realize that the big picture is the broad consensus about, and it's a strength for all those kids and young people who in many situations feel particularly vulnerable. There's a consensus that we're going to make a regional Statped. There is disagreement about whether there should be four or five regions. There's two arguments for it to be four and not five. One is that we have close cooperation with the health system and with the structure in which health regions are divided. The second is that within Health South-East there are slightly different competences that made it difficult to imagine how to divide in an appropriate way into another region. But what we've done is to make sure that there's a center of expertise in Kristiansand. I'm very concerned that it's part of the structure we're now proposing. Statped faces a significant reorganisation, but not necessarily a co-location. I think it's very important to see that here it's essentially the competence we're going to make sure that it's taken care of around by. But I'm very concerned that those children and young people who need help while Statped is now going to turn into a new way of working and renewing, will get it along the way, and that the performance of the work that is about helping children and young people in the process will not be reduced even if an organisation is under development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1699	Governments talk about a vulnerable group — a concept she uses herself — a group that depends on security. The representative Aksel Hagen talked about wanting state deaf schools. I don't think it's the state that's the key. I think you're safe with what you have. With the proposals of the Council of State to the Stortinget, uncertainty was created. Some of the things you know that this group is dependent on are just safe. In view of that, and in the light of the fact that I feel that the Council of State and the Government have created insecurity – we fundamentally disagree as to whether or not these schools should exist, but that is what we have to live with – I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she believes that the process of the deaf schools has been ideal for creating security for parents and for the same students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1709	Many people feel insecure when we discuss Statped and special education. It's because many people's experience has been that they've been fighting for a long time for both acceptance and help to their children. That is why we have done a great job of discussing with very many groups of users of Statped in order to provide maximum security around this. By and large, we have succeeded quite well with that. I think everyone's seen that here it's suggested the grip that there's basically a broad consensus on. In the case of State Deaf Schools: It will continue a State Deaf School. A.C. Mills of Competence Centres in Trøndelag shall consist of a State Deaf School, where students have the opportunity to stay in an environment of competence. It is very important to stress that there is a commitment to ensuring this environment of competence, for example: sign language, which is essential. What was challenging about the other state deaf schools was that parents largely chose the local community school and shorter stays in these state schools. Thus, we faced the dilemma of slow weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1716	The government now chooses to keep the organisation according to the regional principle, just as one has chosen for health regions. What we know is that the Health Region of the largest – Health South-East – has had significantly greater problems with the organisation than many of the other health regions have. When we were at Statped West, they told the committee that Statped West is more than big enough for us to handle. Then the question is, how does one think, when Statped West is big enough, that one should be able to handle Health South-East? Then there's an additional dimension to this that the reform links to regional health care agencies are controversial. Then again, the question is, what happens if Health is Largest, and how will it possibly affect Statped's organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1723	I can't make this a big question of principle. We have simply looked at what is the appropriate organisation of Statped. Of course, we've looked at how the hospital regions are divided, because there are important partners for many of those who are users of Statped, and then we've looked at the competences that are in the different regions. We have then come to the conclusion that four regions are a reasonably sensible way of organising this. It's not least that if we were to divide into a Health South and a Health East, it would lack a part of the breadth of competence. There is a technical justification, and then cooperation with health regions is another reason. Then, of course, we'll have to follow that discussion in relation to how health regions can now develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1728	I'll follow up a little bit in the same track. There are two issues that concern us as there is disagreement in this part of this case. Now the Council of State says that there is no principle in the division of these regions and that there is an overall assessment. It is a little strange when such clear feedback was given during consultations – opinions with great concern for a region as large as the South-East is. An overall opposition has proposed not to do so now, but the Council of State and the Government parties still have doubts about the solution proposed. I think we can establish that the division of health regions has failed and is not working. So I'm really wondering, because this is about systems to ensure good help for our children: what card is it that the Council of State has on hand that trumps all the concerns that have come, so that she still stands on that solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1737	It is true that there are some hearing bodies that have raised this particular issue and have raised objections to it. However, we have had an enormous number of consultation opinions on this communication, and it is not that a majority – very close to it – have had as strong views on the regional breakdowns as is expressed here. So there's a lot that separates Statped from the health regions. For example, almost half of the peak competence is currently in the Oslo area. It is a very vulnerable competence, which means that in a system that is so much smaller than the health regions we are discussing, there will be – what to say – an imbalance in how the competence we have today is distributed. That is why we have considered it most appropriate to divide it now into four regions. I have not seen that there are vitally important arguments from those who object to this, which would indicate that we are converting that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1744	I had probably expected that when the Council of State of a whole region both through the message writes, and also here repeats, that one lacks point competence and does not have sufficient width in his professional competence, that it was somewhat more justified than the thin that is from the government. A region with a university has been given a high profile as a region with a sufficient width. What the Council of State is doing here, and which I think is a general error, is comparing Health South and Health East. But if she had compared Health South and Health North, Health South and Health Middle and looked at the regions and competences distributed around these, then this might look something different. How does competence in the South region relate to the North, Middle and West regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1749	These are arguments that the Kristiansand environment has competence, and we make it visible by establishing a separate regional office in Kristiansand. It is precisely to make the competence that is actually there visible. But I wouldn't have been so terribly offended even though I was from Kristiansand. Competences are essential in this area. We're going to be able to work together in a region that becomes Statped South East. And we have made an overall assessment of the competence that is, also against the important partners we have in Statped. That's why we've given a balanced solution, but where we also make the region office we're going to have in Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1755	I want to ask the Council of State a little bit about cultural understanding. A little bit of the point in my post was to say that you have to understand that deaf culture and sign language culture is something special besides having a disability. The drawing language is a culture sphere of its own and must have respect for it. The Secretary of State of the Minister asked in a meeting with the parents: what is special about these children, then – as I see it, there is a lack of understanding that belonging to this cultural group, using this language as a native language, and having this disability is actually a little more special than many other handicaps you can have, because it is also a cultural community related to the sign language. Does the Council share the State Secretary's opinion? Or does she understand that there are special challenges to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1764	It has both me and my state secretary, who has done a very good job by just being in discussion with a lot of environments that I haven't pulled over myself, to understand and to be in dialogue about the needs they have. This is an understanding the entire department has for those who are deaf and who have a sign language culture. It has been recognised as a language in recent years, and it has, of course, been crucial for us to stress that it should be retained, but also have the opportunity to develop further. That's why A.C. Mills in Trondheim are going to be such a state center of competence on this. A lot of people have been worried about this discussion. They have very often had good reason for that. That's why we've been in dialogue and done such a good anchoring job we could do, because our intention is to strengthen the offer. We've got a good solution for Hunstad, and now I expect that we can take this discussion forward for improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1771	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1776	It was the Council's response to me that made me need to draw. To claim that this is because someone is offended on behalf of a city, perhaps even more testify that you have not understood the grip that the council actually agrees to let the parties do here in the hall today. No one is offended on behalf of a city or region. But we're really concerned that 2.5 million people are going to go to one regional centre – a centre to support municipalities, county councils, who are going to work at individual and system level, who are going to provide adequate competence for children in this region and for the support that Statped is going to give to teachers when they are going to take care of our children. It is timely to ask the Council of State when it says in the communication, and when it is emphasised here too, that this is a region that lacks competence, what competence we lack: we need to clarify that from this region. What do we need in order for our children to receive the good support they actually need? I would have thought that a government council could have contributed when you have such clear messages. So to the other thing that there's disagreement about here. The more I work on this matter, the more I see that perhaps the biggest challenge for deaf children in the ordinary school today is that they become socially isolated. There are a lot of students who have stressed the importance of this full-time offer – not when they were in first-class, maybe not in second- or third-class, but in fourth-class they feel isolated, and they need to be in a full-time offer where others speak the same language, where it is not just about acquiring exactly what comes from the teacher, but being part of the conversation and socialisation that takes place along the way. It has made a strong impression on us in the Christian People's Party. We're not sure if the system that's now set up is in place or will be good enough to attend to these students. That is why we believe that these schools should have passed. So, finally, a little bit of a depression. I have to say that when a press release is sent out on 1 February from the Council of State that these schools are now being laid down, before the Stortinget has any opportunity to deal with the professional basis for this, it may also show in all its breadth that we have a government that does not need this discussion to which they are actually inviting the Stortinget to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1791	Just a few brief comments, which I hope will not pull out the debate. But it's something that I think it's important to clarify. It refers to the fact that there has now been an agreement on Hunstad school in Bergen. That's great. It seems to be a good deal. But a little in relation to the last time that Dagrun Eriksen clarified: this agreement has come because it was a conclusion in advance. There is no one who knows that this was the best solution for this type of teaching, but because it was decided that something should be laid down, it has become such an agreement, which is probably good in relation to the conclusion that had been made without us having been with and treated it. So to the regions, whether it's four or five. Much reference is made to the competence to be built. We were on a very exciting visit to Statped West, which operates very well after what I perceive, and which was very clear that in addition to the competence to be offered in the follow-up, there is also a work to be organised. Statped shall be a driver, they shall ensure that it is well organised, that it cooperates well, and that it is a time-consuming task. Statped West says they have such a large region that they will spend many years getting through that work in their area. Then I wonder how the Council of State sees it to be done in the great region of the South East, which is thus many, many, many times as large as the Statped West organizes today. And as they said, it takes almost too long to get through our entire region, which we're going to get rid of, because it's not only the department office that's going to solve this, but also the management of Statped is involved in a work in the region. I cannot see that being taken care of at all in any of the comments and answers that have come from the Council of State. Competence is one thing. Of course, it should be built, and can be built, and is largely present, but it is far more than what is to be run from these offices. But I record that there is no will, even though it was not a principle, to agree to have an organisation with five regions, which would provide a much greater security for a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1800	I wonder a little about the temperature of the debate. This is because in the consultation round, in our meetings with different user groups and professionals, we have discovered that we are in a professional field, or subject areas, where there are different professional views going out and out. So I'm a little surprised that the opposition is so convinced of what is a unique, correct solution here, and then I think about this with special schools. We know — almost regardless of what is right or not — that most of the kids and parents today have chosen the secondary school. They want it to be further developed, processed, by putting in place a good PP service and not least a Statped device that is stronger, more competent and closer than it has been so far. A little bit then: the size of the regions is interesting in themselves purely administrative, but the size of a region doesn't say anything about how fast you can get a deal and good cooperation with the municipalities that are within the region. It depends on the extent to which the professional apparatus is supposed to communicate with municipalities within the region. We cannot, based on the size of the region, almost conclude that this means that the region of South East will spend two or three or four times as long to get such an agreement in place as the smaller regions, those that have fewer municipalities within their region. But a little bit back to this with special schools. Posts are being made here which may indicate that we who belong to the position now believe that throughout the year, all the time, the kids are going to be in their secondary school and are not going to have any opportunities to leave the secondary school and meet students with the same type of disability – or disability – as they do. That's not right. There should definitely still be flexible offers that become part-time offers on an annual basis, but which in periods can be of the kind that you are with yours on a full-time basis, just to get the switch between what is most desirable for everyone, most around our country, namely being in high school, but sometimes – call it like – a little relaxation, a little relaxation, a little alternative everyday life than what you have in high school. I have every reason to believe that the many good professionals we have at the Statped centres in the future – together with the municipalities – will find good, flexible solutions to this, which will make users think that we are getting a better offer than what is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1809	First of all, the reorganisation that we are now facing. There are at least two grips to be executed here. One is that we're going to gather Statped to one national organization, and the other is that we're going to regionalize. Today it works approx. 1000 people in the Statped system, and there will be inequalities in the size of these regions. There is a significant conversion one should do in the way of working. But it's not an invincible transition over a five-year period to get 1,000 people to work a little differently from what you do today. I have great faith that the staff in the Statped system will do just that. I am just concerned that we should at the same time ensure that we have a high level of service to go to the municipalities, so that there are no municipalities and some children who have to pay the price for getting us to a better system in the long term. Then I'm not going to polish anything more in relation to how we're going to cooperate in Health South-East. I'm absolutely sure that we're going to find a good way to cooperate in this region, too, for the benefit of the users, and that we're able to draw on the competence that is. So to the hearing impaired. I have to say I'm a little surprised that you want to keep such a high level of conflict in this discussion. The last thing that matters is that, as Hagen's representative was also involved, we're going to have one state hearing school in Trondheim. We've been discussing four hearing schools. The other three hearing schools are in Oslo, Holmestrand and Bergen. In Oslo and Holmestrand, therefore, a good cooperation has been achieved with a municipal hearing school. In Holmestrand the collaborative school was to be laid down, and then we have been left with one problem position, and it is about the relationship between the state and the municipal hearing school in Bergen. The mountain is a big town. Mountain is a city of considerable competence. It is clear that Bergen manages to make a good offer for hearing-impaired people when Oslo manages – heaven and sea – I am absolutely convinced that competent mountainers can do it. I am very pleased that through this process we have reached an agreement of intent with the municipality of Bergen that creates security for those who have been users of Hunstad school. So it's not like we've been sitting in an office drawing a new structure in terms of hearing. This is how parents choose other offers for their children now than before. That's why it's about. 140 hearing-impaired pupils who receive specifically organised municipal primary school services, and this is approximately 230 hearing-impaired sign-languagers who live around the country, who use four weeks’ on average to fill in to develop their language. So there will be someone who still believes that they should be in a state hearing school. Then A.C. Mills are still that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1820	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 4864]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1836	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It will also be suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1845	In this committee we often discuss data and new technologies, but usually in connection with the cultural field and the media field and the developments in digitisation there. That is why I want to pay tribute to the proposers for the opportunity to discuss ICT and kindergarten in Stortinget. As in the case of St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009, Kindergarten Quality, there is an overall committee that agrees that it is a good investment for good quality child-bearing society, precisely because it gives the most children a good start to life. And it is an overall committee that underlines the need for competence, and that the staff in kindergarten is the main resource of kindergarten. It is in this context and with this as a backstop we have to see the proposal on digital aids in kindergarten. The proposals we have for treatment deal primarily with ICT as a tool in relation to information and administration in kindergarten and as a tool in contact with the home, and not necessarily as a tool for providing quality educational work in kindergarten. It is primarily parental-child-garden contact with the proposers. Clearly, good information between home and kindergarten is important. It provides better childcare services. It's important for parents, and it's important for the children. That's why last year we set up a parental selection for kindergartens, FUB – as we call it, which is kind of parallel to the Parental Committee for Primary Education, FUG – and they have the task of caring for the parenthood of child care issues. In this context, they have an important role to play in facilitating more participation and information between kindergarten and parents. A two-year-old study shows that most kindergartens have digital tools, that they use them in different ways, and that most people are satisfied with the way digital tools are used in kindergarten. But it's not obvious that the tools are used in a pedagogical context. This survey just shows that what is wanted in the first place is training on how to use data and digital tools in training children, in the educational context. If we're going to draw some parallels to school, we're also going to use ICT a lot in a different way. It is used in both pedagogy and parental contact. It's very good around it. I think we should remember that it is a challenge that contact with the home requires that parents have knowledge of ICT, that they have access to computers, and that they themselves take the initiative to check the school's websites, etc. It's important to bring it with you if you're going to discuss it as a parallel to kindergarten. Then it's also important to remember that kindergarten has a peculiarity when we talk about the educational offer. At the heart of this issue is the newly created ICT centre in education. They are responsible for disseminating, guiding and facilitating the use of ICT for all actors in education, including in kindergarten, now that kindergarten is part of the educational cycle. They will also address issues relating to privacy, on which an overall committee agrees is important. On the part of the majority, we believe that we have many new, good initiatives in this field. We do not see the need for new initiatives, but we would like to welcome a discussion, in particular on privacy and children, and a discussion on how digital tools can be involved in child education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1864	That was a good statement from the case-rapporteur, so we could almost say that, based on everything that was said, the government parties could have supported the proposal under consideration today. I also want to give tribute to the proposers to address an important topic in order to raise the quality of kindergartens. The entire committee agrees, now that we have almost full babysitting, that it is important that we get in place quality in kindergarten. ICT is an important part of the work, both for employees and to have contact with parents, but not least with digital tools that children themselves can do. A two-year-old today knows more about data and technological aids than what we did when we were so old. I have a little nephew in two years who has no problems getting on music and TV on the iPhone and he almost goes off to the TV and wonders if there is no touch function on the TV as well. So little kids suck up on their knowledge, and it's easy to teach them how to use digital tools, which it's incredibly important that we be able to get in place in kindergarten. Then we also have a challenge when it comes to putting into place normal quality in kindergarten. We know that we have a challenge that we need 4,000 pre-school teachers in kindergartens, and that must not be the case when we add many new ICT guidelines, that employees in kindergarten should spend most of their time communicating with parents via digital networks, so that parents should have contact and observe what the children are doing. What is important about ICT in kindergartens is that it should be possible to simplify everyday life, to improve quality. However, it is important that these facilities do not go at the expense of children, that they go beyond the time that employees are going to spend with their children. It was a small mention of the proposal in which the Progress Party fully supports the intention, but nevertheless we do not have a little more detailed explanation of what kind of digital aid the proposers call for in the proposal. Because the intention of the proposal is good; there's a lot there that's good. I hope that the Council of State can take it with us in the further work, so that we can get more use of ICT in kindergarten. We also know that it could be an economic question. There may be large purchase costs for kindergartens, but it needs to be put in place. We know that there is a lot that can happen when it comes to ICT in kindergarten, which will be able to simplify the daily lives of employees. It can also give you a better interaction between kindergarten and your parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1881	The President assumes that the representative will also make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1884	Yes, I'm addressing the proposals behind the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1889	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1892	The kindergarten sector has become, in a few years, a major and important sector of the welfare community. About 270,000 children and 85 000 employees have their daily work in the nursery. We're good at kindergartens, but we can get even better. The right is impatient to further develop the content of kindergartens. We are therefore disappointed at the government's defensive position in this matter. We're talking about a sector that's trading for about 40 billion dollars. kr. It's a sector that has a lot of room for innovation and development, and that's what the Right wants to facilitate. Kindergarten is an important part of child rearing in Norway. Many children spend many hours in kindergarten during a week. We spend a lot of resources on kindergartens, so the Right sees it as its duty to ensure that we manage the money in the best possible way. The most important thing in the debate on kindergartens is to give children the best possible opportunity. Better quality in kindergarten is about better content, but also about better organisation of kindergarten. These things are linked, and improvements benefit the children, the employees and the parents. Good quality of childcare facilities is about the educational content of kindergartens, but also about ensuring good operation and good internal procedures for children, parents and employees. The employees and their time with the children are, in the Right's view, essential to improve the quality of the day-care centre. The release of time from administration and organisation, as well as better procedures, will give employees more time with their children — and with a better day of childcare. On the right, there is an interest in stimulating the use of new instruments by kindergartens to achieve this. When we know that the vast majority of kindergartens are small units driven by hard work and with the efforts of some ferrets, it is important to give incentives to engage in development work. You don't have to have visited many kindergartens until you understand that the offer given to the children depends on these fires. The right had hoped that the Storting would be able to facilitate that this would be room for development. Innovation and development in kindergartens are about innovations both in the educational system and in the organisation of operations themselves. The aim of all developments is to improve the quality of the children’s nursery services themselves. Increased use of various ICT tools can help facilitate the operation and improve information and documentation between employees and parents. Several kindergartens already do a lot in these areas, but the Right wants to ensure that these systems are started and evaluated in a more systematic way to find out what effect they have on the operation and quality of the individual nursery. We see that a lot of kindergartens do this today, and it's like they're private. Privates like to take the lead in innovation and innovation, and that's why the Right is worried that the locals might not be as good at it. Therefore, we had hoped that several parties in the Grand Duchy could be involved in raising the municipal kindergarten sector in this area. A pilot project proposed by the Right in this matter will allow all the different kindergarten actors to test out digital aids. So we want to map the quality effects of putting this into practice. The right is concerned with having knowledge of how policies and systems work to improve day-care for children. In other areas, the right has also called for government ICT strategy. There we get answers. Nor did we have the greatest expectations that the government wanted to get ahead in terms of ICT bet and innovation in the kindergarten sector. The knowledge we have about the use and quality effects of digital aids in kindergarten today is not sufficient. We get signals from kindergartens that have used different kinds of tools, that they help improve the flow of information between kindergartens and nurses, that they improve and simplify reporting procedures and improve the follow-up of the individual child. It contributes to better quality assurance of the documents relating to the children in the nursery, and it leads to better communication within the daycare centres between the staff and the departments. In particular, the Right will point out that this means a lot to children with special needs, children with different diseases. They can get a much safer everyday life through the use of digital tools in the dialogue between parents and kindergartens. It is particularly important that information does not deviate. When you get into the kindergarten today, there's a lot of yellow patches hanging around about drugs and other things to remember. It is possible to get quality assurance through such a system. It's only the imagination that limits finding smart solutions that improve the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1924	It is the parents who have the primary responsibility for caring and educating their children. At the same time, this is how the previous speaker said that many children spend many hours in kindergarten. The kindergarten is and must be a good educational offer to the children during the day. Nevertheless, there is a need for us to constantly review the new opportunities we have — all alternatives — both technologies and other tools that can enhance the quality of the nursery provision and that can also strengthen information and contact with parents, so that parents are informed about both what their children experience in kindergarten, how they are doing, and can help build the best possible bridge between the day-to-day experience of their children in kindergarten and the day-to-day experience of their children at home. Digital aids can be a very important tool in this way. Today, as others have mentioned before, there is a lot of communication between parents and kindergarten that could have been done in a better and more efficient way and that could have provided better opportunities for kindergarten to provide a good offer to the individual child. If you just do a few searches for kindergartens on the Internet, you will soon see that there are private kindergartens that have come most in this way, in terms of offering websites, information, etc. to the parents, which simplifies the contact. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a potential that needs to be further worked on. However, we believe – as the majority – that this is not an area where it is natural that the Storting should make such a concrete order. It's an area where more work should be done. At the same time, it is obvious that there are major privacy challenges. There we think that the proposers have raised timely questions, as the Council of State in the letter of reply should have paid more attention and shown that they are continuing. If not, we will be able to experience in the future that precisely privacy considerations become a barrier to using digital tools in kindergarten. That is the way it should be, but there must not be an unnecessary barrier because, on the part of the authorities, it has not been possible to ensure the proper use of digital tools. In this way, the Christian People's Party will be united with the majority of the first two proposals, which we will not support. But the third proposal by the proposers is behind the Christian People's Party, because we think it points to important issues that the kindergarten sector needs far more attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1939	I think it's good to get an initiative from Stortinget to discuss how we can have a good ICT usage in kindergartens, and how it can contribute positively to the development of kindergartens. This is a subject on which the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Renewal have long been concerned. FAD has supported a study on digital media, carried out by Nina Bølgan at the University of Oslo, ‘Barnehagen’s digital status. National monitoring of equipment, availability and use of digital tools in kindergarten’, from 2009. The study shows that almost 80 pst. integrates digital tools into the traditional activities of kindergartens, but they also want more training in this area. The kindergarten sector should be able to attract exchanges of information technologies which can facilitate work and improve the quality of work. Today’s young children are born into the information age, with the benefits and disadvantages it brings. We want to counteract social digital divisions and rusty children and young people to be able to maneuver safely in the information jungle. I don't imagine that ICT will be a major part of children's everyday life in kindergarten, but is introduced where it is natural and can provide benefits in the educational work. The Ministry of Knowledge has developed a separate theme booklet with advice for kindergartens to do this. Although it is not so closely related to the proposals we are dealing with, I would also like to mention that, in the Quality Communication in Kindergarten, we announced the development of a national system to monitor the development of the quality of the kindergarten sector and the creation of a web portal on and for kindergartens. These are among the tasks that the Education Directorate will be entrusted with when part of the tasks in the kindergarten area are now transferred there. I support the intentions of the proposal that exists, but I think it makes sense that we are moving forward according to the plans we have now made, among others. by entrusting ICT centres in education and training with the task of developing a plan for the long-term development of ICT skills in the kindergarten sector. A new framework plan for pre-school teacher training is now under work. Digital competence will be a natural part of the discussions ahead of it. There is a need for a lot of new research on kindergartens, what gives good quality to kindergartens, and the state of kindergartens. The major research programmes in which kindergartens are now involved open up to research projects which also include topics such as ICT. Among other things, there has been a project on the place of digital objects in children's social and linguistic formation in kindergarten, under the PolicyFuU programme. Digital aids are already in use in kindergartens, both in educational work and in internal and external communication. In a digitalised society, kindergartens will increasingly make use of digital aids. Many kindergartens have already used administrative ICT solutions. This area is closely linked to developments in other areas, related to quality. I think it would have been useful if the Orphanage Committee could discuss how kindergartens can get good communication with parents through digital aids. I am sure that the newly created Parental Committee for Kindergartens will take up that ball and that FUG – the Parental Committee for Primary Education – can contribute with school experience. One important difference here is that parents like to be in closer contact with kindergarten, that the communication challenges are a little different, and that there is a little less close contact in school with parents. ICT centres in education will now cooperate with FUG — the Parental Committee of Primary Education — and with the Parental Committee of Kindergartens on guidance through the use of digital tools in communication between kindergarten, school and parents. So to the privacy issues: they're important, but they're not very special for the kindergarten sector either. They must ensure compliance with the Data Protection Act in the case of digital facilities for use in kindergartens, such as all other sectors. The Data Protection Authority has the task of contributing to the enforcement of the Data Protection Act, and they have a lot of information on how children’s homes should handle information on their children’s websites. They have created their own guide: «In the best sense... A guidebook on online pictures of children». The booklet is made available to the kindergartens on the Ministry's websites. I appreciate that this theme is taken up in Stortinget, and that you have a focus on it. But we already have extensive work going on in this area, as I have just gone through, and we have a wide-ranging effort, but with a clear intention that kindergartens can make use of ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1975	I am pleased that the Council of State supports the intention of the proposal from the Right. As I said in my post, when you walk around in many kindergartens, there are many yellow patches hanging around, both with dolists, medication, and which child is going to be with which child home. In that perspective, privacy and legal certainty are not very well taken care of. In that area, I think digital tools can simply help improve the privacy of children. Who's going to have what information? Not least we know that in several kindergartens there are many temporary workers coming and going. With regard to children with special needs, medication and such things, it is important to ensure quality. In view of this, I wonder what thoughts the Council of State is about how we are going to ensure privacy, both with regard to today's information flow system, and also with the many kindergartens that have begun to develop digital tools, with regard to the flow of information between parents and children's employees. Should you consider how to improve privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1984	Firstly, I think that the representative of Hofstad Helleland has a very important point when she says that the system of oral information, yellow patches and various other ways of transmitting information does not necessarily ensure better privacy than a well-developed ICT tool would do – rather on the contrary in very many kindergartens, because then you have to go through and think about how to do it. In this area, I think it is important that kindergartens receive good guidance. It is not that the issues of information in kindergartens are so very different from those in school. I also do not believe that the proposer here believes that we should make any changes in terms of privacy – nor do we know how to comply with data protection when developing better services related to ICT. There, the Data Protection Agency has already been on the road with a supervisor, which I know is useful in kindergartens. We can make sure to ask ourselves better in the kindergarten sector to know if there is a need for further assistance on precisely those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e1991	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4865]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2009	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2018	I want to start by giving credit to the proposers because they are concerned about this issue. This is an important issue for which we are all concerned, and there is no doubt that the impact of child protection on children should be strengthened. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly acknowledges the challenges and refers to what the government has done and will do in that area. As I see it, we are some in several of the intentions of several of the proposals in the matter. For the Labour Party and the Government, it is a fundamental requirement for good child protection to ensure the legal certainty, impact and participation of children in a good way and in accordance with the best interests of the child. The child's best is and shall be the guiding principle. A high level of child protection has a wide range of measures and services, with high quality and good use of resources. It is a strength for children’s influence that the government has for the first time carried out a user survey of children and young people over nine years of age in state and private child protection measures, and will carry it out annually. The fact that our government has taken the initiative to carry out such an investigation shows that we want to listen to the children and that they will have the opportunity to evaluate their offer, and not least that we will use the results further in the work. This investigation is important because it gives us an indication of both what luck is and where the challenges lie. The user survey shows that most children feel that they want to be well and help. But at the same time, she also shows that children are being over-heard, and that they feel too little that they are getting involved in the preparation of their own plans. We're serious about this. I think it is very good and exciting that the wide-ranging and important Children's Protection Panel will come up with concrete recommendations and advice on future child protection, and that the children's voice is given great emphasis in this work. I had an interesting meeting yesterday with the National Children's Protection Association, which made good sense of how future child protection should be. Listening to the children and to their partner organisations thought I was very important in our daily political work, and that helps to strengthen us as elected representatives. All persons under the age of 18 who are housed in foster homes shall have one supervisor. We are all concerned that the actual number shows that not everyone has supervisors. The lack of supervision by 800 children in 2010 cannot be accepted. It should be emphasised that in December 2010, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality specified to the municipalities their statutory task of appointing supervisors for children in foster homes. The fact that they also have a good dialogue with KS on how to improve the recruitment of supervisors is very important. There is a joint committee that wants an improvement in this area, in line with the State Council itself. Clearly, supervision in an institution or a foster home where the young are not present is of little value. It is clarified in the regulation on the supervision of children in child protection institutions for care and treatment that individual supervision is to take place when the children remain in the institution. The fact that the professional responsibility for the supervision of child-rescue institutions has now been added to the State Health Authority also suggests that the Committee is a strengthening of this system. Another good grip done by the government. A good system of complaints and supervision is very important in the protection of children. I think it is good that the Council of State also signals that he will consider more closely whether the patient and user environment should be given a role in child protection corresponding to the health and social environment in Oslo. This will strengthen advice and guidance on rights for children and young people, parents, relatives and foster parents in contact with the Child Welfare Service. I want to show that it's important for the government party that we hear the children's voice in child protection. Taking part in and influence your own life in important decisions that will be taken about your life and your future is very important. Impacts provide safety and safety. We also want to improve the influence of children in child protection, and I have great confidence that this will be followed up by the government and the council. Finally, when it comes to the re-use of child protection, we have received many feedback from child protection organisations and more on the need to improve the user-friendliness of the issue. I agree with this, and I am looking forward to a proposal from the Child Protection Panel, which is broadly composed. The recordings from the Child Protection Panel have to play an important role in the further assessment of the abuse of child protection and how future child protection should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2039	As I have said before, this is an important debate in this session on an important topic that this committee has debated up to several times. But a good theme can't be said too often – if it's a saying that's called it. I would like to pay tribute to the proposers for this proposal, because strengthening the rights and influence of children in child protection is an incredibly important matter, and it is good to see that there is an overall committee behind most of the comments in the matter. I hope that the Council of State will take this with me. Yesterday, parts of the committee met with members of the German Family Committee. They came to Norway to hear about the Children’s Convention and children’s rights. It was an incredibly interesting meeting. They were concerned with the rights of children in Norwegian law, and it is true that the Children’s Convention takes precedence over Norwegian law. Children's rights are violated, and we're going to follow that. Then I would like to remind you of what the county councillor in Troms has done in sending out letters to all the municipalities in Troms about the Children's Convention and children's rights, to see if the municipality complies with children's rights in the way they are required to do. It should be taken over by all the statesmen and follow what the state of Troms has done. Then we have had many debates on this matter. I want to say it this way that I don't think we disagree that there is a problem, and I think that both the Council of State and all the parties here want to do the best for our children and the children who need help out there in society. But it's probably more so that the opposition is more impatient than the government parties. The rapporteur was up here talking about this as an important issue. Yes, it turns out there are problems out there. It is also clearly stated in the comments that there are, in fact, problems out there with children not being heard. Then it's very fun to be able to say and show what we've done. I demand what the government has done. No government has had as much money as this government. They have granted more money for the protection of the child, and they will have a reward for it. It was just supposed to be missing. But with four government councils of six years, this government has not been able to produce one case for the Storting yet on more child protection measures – without through the budget, by bringing more money. So that's good, but still the opposition is impatient when it comes to doing other things. Because it's possible to do two things at once. It is possible to listen to the children and to make small grips out there, while at the same time setting up a child protection panel and having an investigation into how the organisation should be. At least the progress party asks for two things to be done at once – and that it must be possible to listen to these children. All the parties in here have had meetings with child-restraint children, we have met with the Change Factory and heard about strong experiences from young people out there who are asking to be listened to, asking to be heard. After the previous debate I went up to my office, and there was a letter in the post where it said: "Come visit me! Why wasn't child protection and visiting the foster home to see how I was doing? I was just alone, I didn't have the phone to call. I couldn't call Child Protection to say how I felt. I didn't dare say so, anyway. I wasn't tough enough, I stayed and was a weak child. No strength to save myself." When all children are entitled to an supervisor, why should it be so difficult to comply with the statutory right to have the supervisor? The children ask for a supervisor that they know, that they can trust, and not a wild stranger who comes just two, three times a year – if they are so lucky to have him a few times a year. There are small things that it is possible to do while we are waiting for the investigation to come in 2012. So there's a couple more things about the child-responsors that are now on the Internet. It's worrying, and I hope the Council of State will take it along, because we can't have cases where it turns out that there are several network advisors who are going to advise children to go almost abroad to escape child protection. Here, it is important that child protection plays with the families and gives the families the help and follow-up they should have. And if they have to take the children away from their parents, then it's important to follow up the parents who are exposed to it, but not least it's important to follow up what the children need. With this, I address the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2068	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2071	We had a debate last week in this room where the focus was on children and that children's legal certainty is not being properly cared for. It is serious that children are not heard. It is serious that children are alone in the fight against the system, and it is serious that children and young people feel completely innocent. Especially serious is the fact that this is about children who do not have parents who speak their language. It is particularly serious that this is about children where it is the state that has assumed responsibility, but which itself is not able to deal with Norwegian law. It is therefore important that the Stortinget put this on the agenda, and it is important that the Stortinget discusses how we can strengthen the legal certainty of children. There is also a background for this proposal to be promoted by the Right, pending a government action. For six years this government has been talking about improving child protection. You should honestly expect more. To be honest, more political action should be expected after six years in government than just talking about a future big message. The children out there who are not given the supervisor, the children out there who are not allowed to fulfil their rights, the children out there who are not allowed to comply with their requirements, are not required to do so. They're calling for action. They call for action. We meet up with up - to - date children and young people who are not allowed to participate in important decisions about their own lives, for example. the children and young people living in an institution who are required to have a main contact among their employees. This main contact is the person who is to be closest in his or her life, the person who is to exercise his or her rights, the person who is to care for their needs and interests. Common to the children we meet is that many people have a good main contact and good relationships with that contact, but there are also many who don't have it. And the fact that the children don't get the opportunity to join in and decide who should be their main contact, many people react strongly to it. There are many children today, we are talking about approx. 800 children, according to up-to-date figures, who do not have a supervisor, even though this size has decided that all children should have a supervisor to exercise their rights and who should come home to these children to see if their foster parents care for their needs and care for their interests. That there are so many hundreds of children who are not getting that right is impossible for us to understand. And that the government has to put down selections and child protection panels to get a change on this, is completely incomprehensible. When a 12-year-old girl who has lived in foster homes throughout her life has to call the Stortinget to tell her that no one listens to her when her foster parents do not care for what she thinks is her need in her everyday life, when the supervisor does not listen to her, but sits and drinks coffee with her foster parents, so she has to call the Stortinge to find out what she needs to do, there is a need for action. When this 12-year-old girl, who has lived her whole life in the care of child protection, contacts her case handler – after much about and though – to learn how to get out of a situation that she feels is very difficult, this 12-year-old person is told to write a letter of complaint to the county. This means the Right we have to do something about. That is why we are proposing a low-threshold complaint system made on the premises of children, which can enable children to arrive. The rights of children, the participation of children and the influence of children over their own lives we need to take seriously the most. That is why it is very sad that the government parties today are voting down proposals that could have led to concrete changes for the child-restraint children out there who are not allowed to respect their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2086	Child protection exists for the kids. Child protection is for the families. In this way, there will also be a key issue in child protection policy: how will child protection be perceived by those for whom child protection is just the case? The child protection debate sometimes tends to become a question of whether you are defending child protection, or whether you are taking a distance and criticising child protection. We all get input from people who have different experiences related to child protection, whether it's adults, parents or kids who are under child protection, or there's foster parents or others who've provided for child protection in different ways. When we get that kind of input, and when we face that kind of criticism, it's easy either to decide that child protection is right and you defend child protection, or that the critics are right and child protection is wrong. The debate is probably much more nuanced than that. I think it's important to recognise that child protection is a developing sector. Child protection education is a developing subject and has been so for a long time. That's the way it should be. Child protection will be another in 10 years, in 20 years' time, based on the experience and knowledge we have in the years to come – and that is what it should be. I think that humility is important to have in such a demanding area. Proposals address many important issues related to good child protection. Influence for each young person is a cornerstone of good child protection. The right to be heard is statutory, but it is also essential to be able to provide the assistance that is needed. The custody of the original parents, often biological parents, is another area that we must say has been neglected in many cases of child protection. It may have a little to do with child protection attitudes and culture, but it is not least about the resource situation in child protection. Nevertheless, if we do not do that job, child protection often poses new challenges and more work through higher levels of conflict in the years to come after action is taken. It also often makes the situation worse for the young people to be helped. Lack of supervisors and poor supervision is another area affected by the suspension. It is a challenge to provide caretakers for children in shelters, who may be there for a short time, and for all children in foster homes. But either we have to get supervisors to all the kids with today's system, or we just have to find another system, which makes it easier to get ready, so that we have supervisors for kids standing ready when kids come in emergency shelters and foster homes. So we have to have an organization that makes it possible to have full coverage. We must never stop discussing the content of child protection: the rights, the influence and the conditions involved, the knowledge, the competence and all the conditions involved in the proposal. Similarly, we must have a debate on the organisation of child protection, which the Council of State and the Department have launched. It's been notified of it. That's affordable enough, but the third part of this puzzle is that we can never let go of discussing the resource situation in child protection. The Christian People's Party has proposed a stepping-up plan for full child protection. It is commendable that the Council of State and the Government will present a major communication on the organisation, but there will never be any sort of child protection and child protection situation unless the resource situation is taken seriously and the review and organisation is combined with a review of the resource situation and a stepping-up plan to ensure full child protection coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2103	I was going to start my post by giving honey to the Right to raise a question that we are also burning for. That being said, I have to add that a claim does not become more true by being repeated many times. Now, what we've heard many times from the Right, that there's nothing happening in child protection, is in sharp contrast to what's actually happening. It's rare it's happened as much politically as it does in child protection right now, and the area we're discussing here is one of the areas where things are changing. Children and young people have and should have the opportunity to say what they think and want before making decisions about them and for them. «User participation» shall not be a word of decoration in public documents. This is about democracy in everyday life, combined with good professional work. When you're working in a profession that's about people, it's an absolute prerequisite to be able to do the job of listening to the people you're dealing with. Therefore, all public services must aim to meet users on the basis of their own knowledge, wishes and understanding of their own situation. Of course, this must also apply to child protection. I was recently visiting the Family House in Eyegarden outside Bergen. In their meeting with users – families, children – they are concerned that participation should take place all the way. Here, there was not only cooperation on families and children, but cooperation with families and children. There are important principles that I believe must permeate the services in the performance of their tasks. It is particularly important in the face of child-restraints, which are perhaps the most vulnerable of all users of our welfare services. Therefore, it is so important that children have the right to good and adapted information about their situation, about their background, about their future. The way children experience the offer is crucial in order to provide children with the best possible help. This is why we have recently conducted a user survey of more than 800 children in child protection institutions and in state foster homes. Never before have so many children and young people evaluated their offer. It's in itself a cross of thought. But now that we've started this for the first time, it's also going to be repeated every year. It means a lot to what knowledge we have about children's own ideas about child protection. The results of the study show that most people experience that adults are helping them and want them to feel good. But it is also pointed out in areas where we need to get better. This applies, inter alia, to: the children's sense of security and the children's experience of being heard and informed. It is something that I take very seriously, and that we are now following up through state child protection agencies, which are responsible for these measures. Participation shall also be an important part of the legal certainty of children. It is therefore important for supervision to monitor the performance of the services. I am very pleased that in 2011 and 2012, the State Health Authority will carry out a nationwide oversight, one of the themes being whether the municipalities guarantee children the right to participation. It happens after pressure from us, because it was one of the most important leaders we let when the State Health Authority took over the responsibility for this supervision. All children who are seven years old are entitled to information about their own child protection case. The same is true of younger children who understand what the matter is. It implies that children have a legal right, even if they have no duty, to express their own opinion. Although the law upholds the formal right of children to participation and influence, we have challenges related to the practice of child protection for the participation of both children and families. As Stortinget is familiar with, it's one of the challenges I've given to the Child Protection Panel, because I'm convinced that even though we've done a lot in this area, it can do more. One of the areas in which we see that we have a special responsibility for lifting is the follow-up of children placed in foster homes. The fact that all children placed in foster homes have a supervisor is a very important goal for us. Nevertheless, figures from municipalities show that over 800 children in 2010 did not have supervisors. It's not durable. It is the municipalities that are responsible for recruiting and appointing supervisors. But this has to be followed up better from our side as well. That is why I have set up a working group in the foster home sector, including: shall make proposals on how to strengthen the work of both recruitment and follow-up of supervisors. I agree with the representatives that good complaints and supervisory arrangements in the field of child protection are important. I have explained in my reply to the Committee why I believe that we do not need a new complaint, but that there are several things that can be done to improve the progress of complaints. I have also explained my thoughts about conceptual use, where I am open to a discussion about changing some of the incorporated concepts of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2129	A few weeks ago, the child protection unit in Sandne's visit to the Child Protection Centre had – or it was the Change Factory, I don't remember, but it doesn't mean anything. It was to listen to how the children really did, and to make the changes they needed. The Progress Party has also met with child-restraint children and more organisations. Some of the things that have always come up are, in fact, questions about the tour. That was not what I expected to be asked about, but that was actually what was taken up several times. Having adults who care, having relationships, being able to have the same people to deal with over several days, maybe a week, was one of those things that these kids highlighted. One of the most important things was if you could get real tournaments for those who work at the institutions. Then my question to the Council of State is: is this something that the Council of State wants to take with it in the further work, follow up the important tours?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2138	All of us who work on this, not least we politicians, have a very good time meeting the children involved, and getting direct advice from them. Often it's just like the representative Horne says, that you get advice that you can immediately get a little bit surprised at, because you'd like to think that questions about tour are a theoretical issue that we're most concerned about in this room. I met a child protection child who I asked: if you could change one thing in child protection, what would you change? Then she said: the tender system. She had experienced having to move many times because the institutions had lost contracts. It shows that what may be a bit of a theoretical problem on the political agenda is very concrete reality for these children. That means that discussions about tournaments of course is an important discussion. In political change, there are often questions about the role of the trade union movement in approving tournaments. I think we essentially deserve to have the system we have today. We see that many are allowed to develop alternative schemes, that it works well, and that it is often the best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2148	When the Council of State says that there has never been as much child protection as it is now, I do not understand it. As far as I remember, there is one thing we have received from the government, and it deals with police statements. It's not just from the opposition in this room that the government gets criticism that there's very little going on in the field of child protection, except these assessments and the recordings and the panels and the samples. That's good, but there's two things to do at the same time. So a concrete question to the Council of State. I assume that the council knows Berit Skauge's recently completed master's thesis in Trondheim. Her hypothesis, as the leader of the Children's Guard for 25 years, is that the child's voice has become a little clearer, but not so much. Then we get a discouraging result, which is very worrying. What does the Council of State say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2157	I said in my post that there has rarely been as much political about child protection as it does now. I am in favour of that, perhaps with the exception of the period following the Sandman package in the 1990s, with a huge resource promise, and the child protection reform under the previous bourgeois government. Now we have the largest resource pledge since Sandman, and we are working on a new reform. That means there's time for change in child protection. My experience is that there is a lot of enthusiasm associated with this outside, while there is a lot of seriousness related to the difficult situation in which parts of child protection are. I've looked at the research on Skauge, among other things. After the representative of Hofstad Helleland pointed to it in the debate we had last week, and there are results that are interesting and that we should notice. Then there is also other research, which I also pointed to in our previous debate, that points in the opposite direction. But sometimes it is that several things can be true at once. What I see as interesting about Skauge's research is that she, among other things, points out that some of the quality requirements we politicians impose can sometimes reduce the time and space for participation. It's a paradox we have to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2164	The Christian People's Party has proposed a stepping-up plan for full child protection. This includes, inter alia: full coverage of supervisors, which is one of the many gaps we have throughout the child protection chain. The letter of reply from the Council of State states that 816 foster children are missing the supervisor. Governments have repeatedly shown that there are practical problems in having full coverage of supervisors because individual supervisors are to be provided for each child, and many are in emergency homes for a short time before moving on, etc. Why can't you just find other ways to recruit supervisors? Since the Minister of Labour is present, why can't you provide the residual working capacity of some mature people who retire prematurely, or others who can actually stand by and fulfil the functions of each municipality, so that the kids can have professional supervisors in part-time, for example, filling the holes in the system? It's just about finding new ways to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2169	It is likely that some of the lack of coverage of supervisors is due to the fact that it usually takes a little time before a supervisor is in place. There may be natural reasons for this, but it does not explain the great lack of supervisors that we have today. It must either be explained that the job has not been a high priority or has been done well enough in the municipalities, or that there are not enough people. I hope that's not the last one, and I don't think that's the last one either. I hope that the resource promise in the municipalities will improve your ability to prioritise this. It's quite obvious that if we don't now see an improvement in this, because this is urgent, then we have to discuss completely different ways of doing it. Now there are many who are discussing what child protection tasks should be moved from state to municipality. Perhaps in some areas we will also discuss which tasks the municipality is not able to solve. Unfortunately, the numbers don't give rise to too much enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2176	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2181	The best interests of the child shall be the overall principle of the work of child protection. It has to be, and it has to be! It should therefore be given priority in matters where there is opposition to other key principles — as the Council of State pointed out, national decisions are more important than the child. For example, if children and parents have conflicting interests, it is the child’s concern that must be decisive. In principle, the Advance Party assumes that children will grow up with their biological parents. This premise, the biological principle, is the basis for Norwegian and international legal regulation of the relationship between children and parents. Child Restraint says, Children will be seen and heard! We will be seen and heard! And they take up three-four things they'll be seen and listened to, which you don't need six years of investigation or four state councils to get to. They point out that they can take care of other occupational groups in the field of child protection. As a girl says, it's very important that they show care, that they're there because they care – not just because they're at work. You have to be like people very, very good if you're going to do a good job in child protection. It says a child protection child. And do you need six years of investigation to meet those wishes? So you point out that it's not education and profession that's the most important thing, but the points that I just read out are the most important. The other thing they're raising is a child protection tour. You don't have to worry about this, as the Council of State did, that these were just theoretical things. It seems that the trade movement here is stronger – and more important – than the children. The same girl says that they're changing adults all the time is not good for me. I don't know what they take into account when they decide that way. Now they're changing all the time. They were here at least a few days before. I often see 20 adults here in one day. Twenty adults in a day! And this is what child-restraint is supposed to be about? In addition, children and young people should not move, avoid being pulled up with their roots, avoid leaving the community, keep their friends and keep school. It is understood that children who have difficulty at home do not enjoy moving away from home as far as possible. These simple things, on which the government has spent six years, could have been done in a much shorter time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2202	It is extremely important that we have a good debate on what to do for the most difficult kids in this society, but it is also extremely important that we have a sober debate, that we have a sober description of the situation for children's protection in Norway. I have to say, with respect to reporting, that I do not always feel that there is a situation in this room. Because if we start to look behind the numbers, it's 40 pst. more children receiving help and being seen by child protection today than it was just ten years ago. Not that there have been so many more social problems in Norway in the last ten years, but we have had better child protection. I really think it's pretty bad when it's always presented as if the child protection employees are doing a bad job. They don't. They do a better job than they ever did. And then, from the opposition's side, the fact that this government hasn't done anything in this area. It's, with respect to reporting, just nonsense. You can go through – and I've actually taken the time to do it now that I've been sitting in the hall – what this government has done on the child protection side since you took over. There have been amendments to the Child Protection Act concerning the rules of procedure for the county councillors in child protection cases. It is important for the legal certainty of children. A child expert commission has been set up to ensure the quality of all expert reports. Changes have been made to provide care to lone minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age. Major changes have been made to the Child Protection Act in 2000, 2008 and 2009, which clarifies and clarifies the rights of children in the law. It is legal to evaluate the measures implemented. Major changes were also made the following year, such as: aims at clarifying and clarifying the rights of children under the Child Protection Act. The legal obligation to evaluate measures taken regularly has been laid down. More stringent criteria have been introduced for return after adoption of care. The use of adoption has been increased – without further regulation in the law. A statutory obligation on child protection to provide feedback to notifying parties has also been introduced. There is a statutory obligation for the child protection service to draw up individual plans. I can frame even more measures. From the day one – since it entered the government offices – this government has worked systematically to ensure children’s rights in the area of child protection and to ensure that children in Norway are brought up safely and well. Over the last few years, the budgets have greatly increased, not least in municipal child protection. And one thing I can guarantee: we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4865]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2229	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2238	It is an important and, not least, current proposal from the Left that we are considering today. The Committee agrees that it is essential to have a good low-threshold financial advice service. Easy-to-reach and good financial advice tackles economic problems at the root. This is an advantage both for those who have debts, for the creditors and for society as a whole. The Committee also agrees that efforts towards those with major economic problems should be made as early as possible. It often turns out that those in an economically difficult situation also have other complex problems. Under the Social Services Act, everyone has the right to information, advice and guidance from social services that can solve or prevent social problems. All municipalities should therefore also have a satisfactory offer of advice and guidance to people with financial problems. For the majority, it is important to clarify that it is a public responsibility to help people in need — including those in an economically difficult situation. In this specific case, it is proposed that the government should contribute to facilitating the creation of a debt regime according to a British model called The Consumer Credit Counselling Service, abbreviated CCCS. The proposers use the term ‘debt regime’. When we use the legal term ‘debt regime’ — whether voluntary or coercive — it describes the outcome of a legal process, that is, where the public is involved. As we know the CCCS through the proposal, it's about an intention of a free private offer, which the majority take note of, but we're recording that it's expected that the public will contribute financially in a start-up phase. The Committee is aware that there are some significant differences between Norway and the United Kingdom, as regards both the extent of poverty problems and the public service provision related to debt advice. The United Kingdom does not have a system similar to that of the Norwegian Human Debt Scheme Institute in severe financial difficulties, nor does the public have an autonomous obligation to provide financial advice, as we have here in Norway. There are debt advisory services based on foundations/organisations and commercial actors, such as: CCCS. The majority of the Committee is aware that the CCCS is financed through creditor contributions, by having agreements with a number of creditors that they pay 10 pst. of amounts recovered to the CCCS. This form of funding implies that it is in the CCCS’ own interest that debtors pay the most of the debts to these creditors. These facts make it impossible for a — in the majority’s view — to copy British schemes to Norway without looking at how they fit into existing and future planned offers. For this reason, the majority of the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to transfer the British CCCS model to Norway. But there is nothing in our law that prevents anyone from developing an extrajudicial voluntary redemption solution between debtors and all creditors, if necessary. The current Debt Scheme Act provides room for voluntary debt arrangement agreements. The same goes for Norwegian contract law. The question then arises as to whether the public should submit financial resources, as requested by the proposers, to a private offer such as the CCCS. Those with serious debt problems in Norway will usually be subject to public debt regimes. Here we have to make sure that those who have a right to it get it within a reasonable amount of time. Here it has to be admitted that we have something to go on, but we're on our way. In this context, the majority will point to some areas where the response to the debt problem can be put in place at an early stage. Debt mediation is a concept that can be used wider than the debt regime. Indebtedness brokerage is a way of providing help to self-help debt counselling tools, and proposals for agreements and mediation between debtors and creditors. Both the revision of the Debt Scheme Act and the investigation of a national debt register are under the treatment of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Both are working towards possible legislative proposals for Stortinget. Nav also has a national low-threshold debt telephone — 800GUARANTEE — as a referral to the municipal advisory service. Work is also underway on a network and telephone-based solution in the Consumer Council and on a debt brokerage tool via telephone number 03737. The government takes the debt issue seriously. The challenges are complex, and the majority will therefore continue to give priority to the use of public funds to strengthen and further develop existing supply facilities. We can just get better in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2270	I am disappointed that the government parties do not take the problem of people with debt problems sufficiently seriously, so that they support an assessment proposal. We're talking about an assessment proposal, and then the representatives up here are saying they're taking this seriously. It proves that you're not doing it when you're not even willing to evaluate it. The problems pointed out are so serious for the people involved that government parties should have been more impatient after improvement – at least consider proposals for improvement. Now the government parties once again reveal that there is a lot of talk and little action. The Progress Party is concerned that people in financial debt should settle themselves, but believes that it is important to have good systems, so that this settlement can take place in a smooth and good way, to the minimum extent possible, to the detriment of all parties. It will serve society as a whole, and it will serve the parties. The fact that debt recovery charges are much higher in Norway than in other Scandinavian countries should lead to a greater willingness to go into this and look at the possibilities for sensible system improvements, for the benefit of both debtors and creditors — that is, a new assessment that the government should look at. It has also been claimed that higher collection fees work preventively, and that the low-charged scheme in Sweden weakens the possibility of reaching a debt reduction solution. It has been suggested that lack of information can contribute to poor credit ratings, which in turn increases the risk of creating more people with debt problems — an assessment. It is also pointed out that access to loans is easy, without the possibility of a good credit rating in advance, and that the debt problems of many start with financing long-term investments with credit cards and consumption loans, which the government could also look at and assess. The centralisation of the duties of the civil servant is mentioned. Centralisation may weaken the awareness of local conditions, which may be important in the assessments made. This should also be assessed and looked at. On the other hand, it has been argued that centralisation could strengthen the competence of debt advisory services, which in many cases are too poor today. Strengthening the police should be assessed. It'll also be able to fix this. Do we want to go that way that the debtor takes out expenses in the debtor's car, even if the means of transport are exempt from expenses if the debtor needs this for work? This should also be assessed. It is often assumed that the debtor can use public communication when taking the car from a party. All of this is review proposal, it's input, it's not just talk. These are concrete proposals that the government should take into account in its further assessment. But here it seems as if there's a lot of talk and little action. The worst thing is that those who want to settle separately give feedback that they have made agreements with the private operators about a amortisation scheme. But they have not made agreements with the state and the public. It should also be included in the assessment in the future. But I realize there's something the government and the red-green don't want. I include this in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2303	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2306	Right-wing concerns about the difficult situation of many people with debt problems. Such situations may arise as a result of tax or charge claims, or other liabilities that become larger than the debtor’s power to deal with. There have been several examples of people with debt problems having major difficulties in getting the assistance needed to deal with the problems. The public should aim to ensure that procedures and legislation are in place to adequately address this group. There is therefore a continuing need to focus on the important issues raised by proposers. It is essential for the administration to act in such a way that, in a difficult economic situation, people are given the necessary help to get out of trouble. This applies, for example: the behaviour of the public as a creditor, where it may appear that procedures and regulations are not always adapted to the wide range of situations that may arise. It is also important that the tax rate ensures the legal certainty of all taxpayers, including those who, for various reasons, are not able to take care of their own interests. The Tax DG’s report on disadvantaged taxpayers, which is a clear recognition of the challenges posed by some taxpayers, and thus also the Tax Agency, is an important report. It is also a step towards improving the procedures for safeguarding the interests of taxpayers who are in a difficult situation. It also indicates that the tax base is willing to think again to help disadvantaged taxpayers. In the right, it is important both to prevent debt problems and, in particular, to help people who have problems paying their debts. But there are currently few places where people are in the process of getting into a debt crisis can turn to get help. Half of the country's municipalities have no or very limited information on public debt advice on their websites or respond to enquiries by e-mail from victims of debt. Although we have a government debt regime in Norway, this system is not good enough. The debt regime is too late to avert situations in which people are on their way into a disaster. It is therefore important to put in place low-threshold schemes that are available so that consumers entering into a debt crisis can seek prompt help. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a very good proposal from the proposals from the Left, and it is therefore a pity that it does not get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2325	Indebtedness advice is part of the Norwegian welfare society, a welfare society not established by a municipal decision, a welfare society not established by the establishment of a state bureaucracy. It was voluntary and non-profit that laid the foundation for the welfare society we see today. It was the Church that started the confirmation education and thus began teaching people to read, which was the precursor to Norwegian school. It was Hans Nielsen Hauge who created a mass movement with emphasis on the individual's freedom and responsibility, and who was premissive of industrialization and much of modern development in our country. The first hospitals were created by the Church in Trondheim and Oslo some 700 years ago. The movement of workers contributed to the formation of a welfare state and good employee rights. We could mention many more examples. In areas by area, voluntary non-profit involvement has developed the welfare offers. Then the state and the municipalities have come to establish the structures, and then they have lived side by side. In the two previous cases, we have discussed the kindergarten sector and child protection – both of which are good examples in this way. Today, we are in the situation that state bureaucracy and governance – and, to some extent, one-sided belief in the use of market mechanisms and tenders – are in the process of breaking the ideal commitment we have in Norway. In that case, it will give us a weaker welfare state, it will give us a weaker welfare society, it will give us a colder Norway, if that development continues. The Christian People's Party sees it as natural, if there are voluntary ideal actors who want to participate in the work of meeting debt victims and helping them to a better life, to warmly welcome them. We believe that it will be exclusively positive in this area as well. The Christian People's Party therefore takes a very positive view of the content of the proposal and the initiative that has come from the Left in this area. After all, the proposal behind the opposition means nothing more than asking the government to ‘encourage’ non-profit actors who want to provide advice, for example. according to the British model mentioned. We think we should have room for that – and not just have room for that, but we should actually see that as in all other areas of our welfare society, a voluntary non-profit commitment would help strengthen the offer we have. It would contribute to and strengthen diversity, quality, and it would contribute to the achievement of more people through the emergence of actors who think differently and who develop their offerings in a different way. Now the proposal is appended to the Minutes, by the majority. I had hoped that the proposal could be supported. But I hope that that means actually taking into account the positive intentions contained in the proposal promoted by the Left, and seeing what can be done to get other actors on the road in this area as well. We are also seeing trends in this matter of constructing a sort of contrast, from the red-green side, between using resources to develop good public services and the fact that ideal and private actors can still build something in parallel. On the contrary, it would probably have strengthened the overall welfare community in this area, and I hope that the red-green will follow up. In this area, we see that there are many people who need help – there are more and more people who need help – but we are not always able to meet them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2342	Debt problems are very complex. The causes of debt problems are also very many and different. Let me kill some myths. The vast majority, well over 90 p.m., of those who get into debt problems because of credit card usage, would have no difficulty in managing their debt at the time they took up the debt. It is when something happens afterwards, when the seafaring business suddenly gets sick, when the person who is on vacation and comes home and discovers that the job is no longer there, when a marriage breaks down at the wrong time – it is all these coincidences that make many people get into debt problems. I have sailed with people who have come out of long-term drug abuse, where sitting and negotiating with banks or sitting and negotiating with private debt collectors is no problem. But to explain that a drug addict who has lived on the street for four years has not had four licenses running at the same time, is extremely difficult. So the public has a lot to do in this area compared to private. That is exactly why we have promoted this proposal. The whole debt problem is divided between a lot of departments. I think it's suffering. The consumer part is under the Ministry of Family Affairs. Very much of it is under the Ministry of Justice. Something is under the Ministry of Labour, and something is under the Ministry of Finance. That is why there is always some tension in the Left when we promote this proposal, what committee it comes to, and what Council of States will respond to the proposal this time – because we have promoted it several times before. The Christian People's Party had a good school in how we built the community in this country. Community we often build a meeting between private and public. The problem with this whole field is that we see that it's private people who are trying to make money on the debt of others, who are now solving the problems of many with big debt problems. We do not want that in the Left. We want us to make such arrangements as this, where private and public can go together and make good arrangements that can help people. This is not a commercial arrangement. This is about a private foundation, a foundation that you can't take money out of. We've seen that it's worked in many other places. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘I therefore believe that there will be better use of resources and safer use of public services.’ We have promoted this proposal before. Then we got the same answer – that the public offers were to be expanded. But we see that the problem is exactly the same. When the Consumer Council carried out a survey on which municipalities had good debt arrangements, it turned out that 12 – I repeat: 12 – of 431 municipalities had good arrangements for people who had debt problems. The answer was to create a phone that, very correctly, here was defined as a reference telephone. That's how it's perceived by those who use it. Having a big debt problem, being the person who has multiple bags of window envelopes lying under the kitchen table, is something that can't be done with a reference phone. It has to be done in a meeting between people, with good professionals who can talk to others. Almost no Norwegian municipalities have their own lawyer. Thinking that we should have good debt systems when you can't even have that kind of professional competence in the municipality, I don't have any faith. This was an attempt to find a system that could help many. It's helped a lot. The Norwegian community, where those who have worked on this problem are ready to start, only needs a pouff in their backs, for example. in the case of a start-up grant. What makes me most concerned about the treatment here today is that the majority rejects the fact that the scheme should exist at all. This is a clear message to all those who have worked to do this in Norway: this is not something you have believed in. This is not what the majority is going to bet on. This is something you want to park as quickly as possible. All those who were ready to do this, and who were just waiting for a pat on the shoulder, are told that it's just packing up and going home, because this is not something you believe in to solve the problems here. Maybe that's what I'm most sorry for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2362	Representatives address a topical and very important issue. It is very important for this government to have a good low-threshold service for financial advice. Easy-to-reach and good financial advice tackles economic problems at the root. This is an advantage both for the debtor, for the creditors and for society as a whole. First, I want to give an important clarification. The representatives Tenden and Skei Grande refer to the British Consumer Credit Counselling Service as an out-of-court debt arrangement. The CCCS is not a regulated out-of-court debt mechanism, but one of several voluntary foundations and organisations in the United Kingdom that provide advice and guidance to people with debt problems. In addition, creditor financing is an essential element of the CCCS model. I agree with the representatives that good debt support schemes are a priority area. I still record that we have different views on how best to do this. I therefore want to be quite clear that, like the majority of the Committee, I do not want to give priority to the state's funds for establishing such a private service. However, if someone wishes to do so, with their own resources, there is no obstacle in Norwegian legislation to organisations wishing to do so being able to set up such services in Norway. Such services already exist, without me having any basis to assess the quality of them. Private services, such as in the United Kingdom, may also negotiate directly with creditors if they are authorised to do so. The quality of such a service will depend entirely on the competence of employees — which will be beyond official control. This is a risk that I am not willing to take, and will not give priority to the use of public funds. In Norway, financial advice and debt advice are a statutory service that the Nav offices in all municipalities are obliged to offer. Two factors are essential for the functioning of the services. The offer must be known and the help must be good. Better marketing of the offers is important. I'm going to be the first to admit that we can get better at that point. The minority of the Committee addresses a number of neighbouring problem areas, such as tax requirements, the public as a creditor, fees and interpretation practices. These are important and interesting issues, but should be discussed independently of the current proposal on public support for a private debt advisory action. The image of who needs debt advice is very complex. We know that people on the debt regime often have mental or somatic health problems. Persons with debt problems therefore need, in parallel with debt and economic management, help to deal with the underlying problems, thus improving their life situation and preventing new, serious debt problems. There is a need for good cooperation between social services and home services and for the use of the entire wide range of devices represented by Nav. This would not be possible to adequately provide for a private debt advisory service. I believe – like the majority of the Committee – that it will be better to use resources, and safer for the public, to continue to strengthen public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2381	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2385	We know that debt problems are also one of — what can be said — the root causes of poverty in Norway, and that people who incur large expenditures and never get rid of them tend to have other social problems, to become socially marginalised, to lose their place of residence — at all to go into what we can call the neo-poverty in Norway. In Sweden, there is a system in which the kroondog – i.e. one agency alone – can charge wages, even on behalf of private creditors. In Norway, there is a myriad of different agencies that can collect wages and salaries, claiming their share of the debt. The challenge is that they are not well coordinated. That's what the department says, that's what the organizations say, and that's what other agencies say. Has the Council considered doing something about this problem, so that people can at least deal with their debt in a way that allows them to have decent living conditions alongside?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2392	I think we agree that this is a major and complex problem. I am now dealing with this concrete proposal in the first round, but I have also been very clear that there are many things you address here, which are important – also the question that Red Isaac is now addressing, how to coordinate and make it easier for people to deal with debt collection. I have no independent assessment of this now. It's really not my department that is responsible for debt collection, but I'm going to take this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2397	In debt advice, there are already non-public actors on the track today, as pointed out by the Council of State. We know from non-profit actors that the Fattignorge Association has applied for public support for the establishment of a system that we are now discussing. I do not know the background for that application. But we know that the Salvation Army – in its search for work, in meeting those who are struggling with social problems, poverty, etc. – provides good advice without being part of any debt regime. But the question to the Council of State after hearing her posts is more general, because we know that non-profit institutions and non-profit actors within our welfare community are now operating and packing together in the field by area, because there are too poor conditions to operate their institutions. How does the Council of State view the need for non-profit actors in the Norwegian welfare community, and will the government take seriously the developments we are now seeing – when these are about to disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2404	It was a big and general question I got on the basis of a matter of whether I would provide financial support to establish a private debt management system. I can assure the representative that I have great respect for the presentation given by him in the debate here, of the importance of NPISHs in the emergence of Velferds-Norway, and that I am by no means a fundamental opponent of private actors in debt advisory. That is why I have also pointed out that this is something that it is free to do. Therefore, I believe that this triggers a question of what you think about private services in general is an error, because this is about whether you want to support a new private scheme that we do not have today. We have other private arrangements – they can operate with them if they want – but I'm very clear that it's right now to give economic priority to the municipal services you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2411	No, that's not what the Council of State does. The State Council's letter to the Committee states that it would be'safer for the public' if it were the public who did so. Does she also mean a non-profit foundation, built up on a model where private companies that have an interest in getting good solutions are connected to good people who know what this is about, in volunteer work? What is really the threat to the public of finding such schemes in our welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2416	This is actually about that we want the same thing, but we have a slightly different view of how we're going to use public money for this right here and now. In Norway, we have a system where you can establish yourself privately and operate with debt advice – that's fine. But then the municipalities have a legal obligation, developed an obligation to do this. And we've got a debt phone. I disagree with the presentation given by the representative; it has received good scores lately, among other things. from SIFO, and we have gradually, through inter-municipal cooperation, improved debt advisory arrangements. So I don't think money should be spent now – which should otherwise be channelled into these offers – on creating new private arrangements, which the representative seems to assume will get all these lawyers, and these good professionals. There are very many good, necessary leads for how this will work. I'm not sure if it will be that way, and I'll build on what we now have, which we know works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2426	This has been tried out in practice in other countries, so we know how it works there. I do not see any of the objections that the government has to the fact that Norway is very different from other countries. The probability that some bets on this when it's slaughtered in a landfill treatment of a population is very small, sail if you're free to do so. But what really flourishes now, in the vacuum of public order being too bad, are the private ones, the ones who want to make money on the debt of others. They are the ones you warn against in the newspapers now, which you can be pressured by, tricked by, or not given good enough advice. If there is something about that that does not provide security for each individual citizen, it must be the private people who earn money on the debts of others. It is not something that the Council of State will do, but stopping such initiatives is thus much more important for the security of each individual citizen. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2431	That is precisely why, because we have to make sure that there is no private money to be made on people, we need to secure and improve the public offer. That's exactly why what I want to prioritise now is to make the public offer better. I mean it's the right way to go. There is a difference between Norway and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, there is no statutory public debt regime in the same way that we have in Norway. With all due respect, you can present what you want with regard to the development of poverty in Norway, but that is a completely different situation than in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2436	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 4866]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2454	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2463	The matter we are dealing with today has been dealt with in previous years as the traditional social security system. As you can see, the first time we treat the regulation of the basic amount of public money as a budgetary adjustment case. It is precisely because the new pension reform, through the new provisions, has chosen to empower the ministry through regulation. The majority suggests an increase in the basic amount of 4.73 p.m., which means that the basic amount is increased from 75 641 to 79 216. This means that all beneficiaries receive an increase in income of 4.73 pst. except for one group. That group is old-age pensioners who receive a pension, who receive an increase in income of 3.94 pst. from 1 May 2011, i.e. this year. The reason for this is that the majority in this room have opted for the introduction of a pension scheme in which the old-age pension scheme is to be adjusted by 0.75 pst. The reality of the adjustment is not 0,75 pst. but 0,79 pst. This is what happens when the Ministry of Finance has been given free time to design the form of the calculation, which means that, on the part of the government, an even greater reduction in purchasing power can actually be achieved than originally agreed upon in the Grand Duchy. The progress party was the only party against the new pension scheme. The Progress Party is still the only party in Stortinget that is against the new regulatory principles. And the Progress Party – I register – is also the only party that in this room, even today, suggests that the old age pensioners have the same purchasing power development as all the others who receive social security schemes. This means, with the new pension scheme, that the Progress Party has previously referred to as the major pension scheme, for the first year now in progress. The start shot for it's gone. This means that Norwegian old-age pensioners this year have reduced their purchasing power by about 655 million. kr. This means that those who have lived through a long life, have been with and built up the welfare community, have paid into their pension schemes, have their purchasing power adjusted by over 650 million. kr. It cannot be seen as anything other than a state theft – I would say so strongly – and I wonder why a group is going to have lower purchasing power than all the other groups. To me, it's completely incomprehensible, I don't understand the logic of it. This must mean that the Progress Party is right in what has been said throughout the debate related to the new pension system: it is implemented alone as a solid savings reform, in order to save future expenditure, which means that pensioners are getting worse pensions and poorer payments in the future. It seems that the Progress Party is wrong, and we will continue to fight to improve the purchasing power of the country's pensioners. That is why I would recommend, for the first time, the position of the Committee, and then I would like to refer to the minority proposals of the Advance Party, which have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2478	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2481	In the ongoing debate on pension reform, the purchasing power development of pensioners has been the subject of considerable attention. The first time the pension is regulated according to new principles, I note briefly that the basic amount is increased by 4.73 pst. The performance of the old-age pension is regulated by the corresponding percentage, while the current old-age pension from the social security system is regulated slightly less, on the assumption of the pension agreement. In recent years, the average pension has increased more than the basic amount and the increase in the special supplement and the basic pension for married couples and cohabitants should be foreseen. The reason, of course, is that pensioners are increasingly earning supplementary pensions. Thus, the purchasing power development of pensioners has kept pace with the development of employee income and so on. The pension regulation of the year does not break that trend, despite the planned under-regulation of pensions by 0,75 pst. The minimum pension has had a particularly strong real growth because the special supplement has escalated over the years. I think the pensioners have reason to say they're happy with this development. So some comments on the tax conversion for pensioners – a conversion that triggered reactions when the budget for the current year was presented. In fact, the conversion was slightly modified during the treatment in Stortinget, without changing the distribution policy mechanism of the conversion that took place, thus increasing or unchanged purchasing power for pensioners with incomes up to NOK 350000. On the other hand, pensioners with incomes above NOK 350 000 have received a certain amount of tax reinforcement. The changes give a gross tax return of 3.2 billion. kr to about 70 pst. by the AFP and old-age pensioners. Overall, after Stortingen’s treatment, a tax relief for the pensioner group of 1,75 billion is provided. net kr in 2011. At this point, the numbers that the majority parties have used in the option are somewhat underestimated. However, the point is that the tax conversion also provides a significant purchasing power improvement for the majority of pensioners. I notice that the Progress Party, i.e. the only party outside the pension agreement, is not satisfied with the pensioners' organisations, which in their view are relatively small-demanding. It is true that the Progress Party also notes that the regulation of the basic amount for 2011 is in line with wage developments, but it does not accept that current pensions should have a weaker level of income than income. The development of pensions has now been shown to keep pace with wage developments in recent years, but of course it does not matter as long as the Progress Party itself presents the opposite. On the other hand, it is a direct error when the party claims that a ‘chronic’ annual underregulation – and I guess that’s the party’s medical diagnosis on the pension system – will lead to an ever lower purchasing power for the pensioners. Now it could be tempting to drill into the party's understanding of the purchasing power development of pensioners. But apart from the fact that for obvious reasons the Progress Party is trying to create the impression that all other parties will deprive pensioners of acquired pension rights, what this party says and does is of little importance. The pension agreement provides political sustainability for the pension reform. Even a government change where the Progress Party against Presumption would be in government after the 2013 elections could change that. On the other hand, the party will be able to cause other damage to the Norwegian welfare community, and we will have plenty of opportunity to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2496	The Government has submitted a proposal for a decision on supplementary appropriations as a result of the regulation of the basic amount and pensions in the social security system from 1 May 2011. This regulation affects all those who live by benefits derived from social security and public occupational pension schemes. The year’s regulation provides for a notable increase in pensions, thus ensuring a good income development and a continued increase in purchasing power even in 2011. The adjustment of the basic amount and pensions from 1 May this year is the first regulation to be implemented following the new scheme introduced by the pension reform. The new principles governing the regulation of the basic amount and pensions are now reflected in the law and regulations. The new basic amount, regulatory factors and rates for minimum pension levels in the social security system from 1 May 2011 are set at kgl. Resolution of 27 May 2011. The year’s regulation envisages an expected wage increase of 3.9 p.m. in 2011, in line with the estimate in the revised national budget. It has also been taken into account that there was a difference between the expected and actual salary growth last year of 0.5 percentage points. The basic amount is set at NOK 79 216, i.e. an increase of NOK 3575 or 4,73 pst. Accordingly, non-pensioners and others who receive their benefits regulated by the basic amount receive from the same date an increase in income of 4,73 p.m. In line with the new regulatory provisions, old-age pensions should first be regulated by 4.73 p.m. and from this sum should be deducted 0,75 p.m. That means that old-age pensioners get an increase of 3.94 pst. from 1 May. The rates of minimum pensions shall be increased by wage growth and subsequently adjusted for the life expectancy of 67-year-olds. This year, this adjustment means a deduction of approx. 0.5 pst, so that the rates increase by 4.21 pst. Old-age pensioners with the lowest pensions are thus getting slightly higher in their pension than old-age pensioners. The minimum maximum pension rate applicable to single pensioners amounts to NOK 157 639 from 1 May. The regulation also has an impact on retirement pension, which increases by 4.73 pst. from 1 May 2011. The regulation has been discussed in meetings with pensioners, disabled people’s and employees’ organisations. Through good discussions, we have created a constructive process and a common understanding of the numerical basis for the regulation of the year. In this dialogue, I have also signaled that I want to review the design of the agreements that underpin the meetings between the government and the organisations on pension regulation and other matters relevant to pensioners. The reason for this is that the agreements were concluded many years ago. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2516	If we start with two people and one is 67 years old, there is an old-age pension, a pension paid of 166 000, and the other is 60 years old and has a disability pension with a small supplementary retirement pension in addition to the disability pension, and the same amount of cash, 166 000 a year, is paid, the person who has a disability – the 60s – will have a better purchasing power development than the 67-year-old who has an old-age pension. I agree that it is important that those with low incomes get a good purchasing power development. My question to the Council of State is: why is it more right to give the 60-year-old a better purchasing power development than the 67-year-old? Do they not need the same protection, the same purchasing power development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2523	I record that we are going to have a new discussion on the basis of the pension reform, where we have the regulation that has been introduced, with 0.75 pst., for pensioners. That's a consequence of a deal in Stortinget, and that makes those who become old-age pensioners get that regulation. That's the starting point for that answer. So the point, as I also pointed out through my post, is that everyone will get a very good increase in their pension and hence a good growth in their pension. But we have for retirement pensioners, through the Storting pension agreement, a slightly smaller increase than you would otherwise have, just to ensure a sustainable pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2530	I find it a little hopeless when the Council of State owes it to me that a pension settlement has been concluded in the Grand Duchy, because it was the government that she represents, which made the proposals to the Grand Duchy. So I'm assuming that it's government's policy as well that they originally proposed a deduction of 0.75 pst. – that the government is behind it, and that it's not like she's trying to make it, that it's the Stortinget that almost forced the government to take that position, because it's not right. Then my simple question is: does that mean that the reason why you have chosen the way to regulate your old age pension is that you want to save future expenses, that there are Norwegian pensioners you have to save on future expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2535	Then I have expressed myself very wrong. I'm just very proud of that pension scheme. I am proud on behalf of the party I represent, and the government I represent, but also proud on behalf of the Stortinget, who has managed to agree on a pension scheme that will ensure a growth and a good pension system for the population in the future, which I record that the Progress Party is not engaged in in the same way. It is important to me that I get the chance to point out that this was not an attempt to relieve myself of the responsibility for the pension reform, but on the contrary a desire to underline a pride that we have actually got to this. This is the first year we see what this looks like, and we see that it's about a still good growth for all the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2543	Will the representative try again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2546	Thank you for that, President. I want to ask the same question again, because the Council of State does not answer that question. The question was simply: does it mean that the Council of State admits or assumes that it is necessary to introduce the current new pension scheme in order to save pensions in the future, that this scheme has been introduced with 0.75 p.m. regulation to save pension payments in the future? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2553	I definitely answer the question. What I'm saying is that I'm concerned that we're going to have a pension scheme that is sustainable over time, a pension scheme that ensures that my children and your children and grandchildren don't have to spend everything they have of money they earn, to fund future pensions, but I'm also committed to having a pension system that provides good purchasing power for the pensioners, and a good growth in it, and it's inside this system. We're just talking about a slightly lower purchasing power growth than you would have had if you hadn't secured the future pension system like we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2558	If the representative thinks he's coming some way, be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2561	Thank you. I want to ask the question again, because it is clear that the Council of State does not understand the question. The question is simple: when the Council of State says that it is important to ensure the future pension system, is it to understand that it is necessary to reduce payments and to underregulate the purchasing power development of pensioners in relation to the purchasing power development of the active in order to have a sustainable pension system in the future? Is that what underpins the government's introduction of this regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2568	The representative asks, and I answer. I answer that we're busy having a good pension system that we know will stand for the future, not a pension scheme that we don't know will stand by at a time when people live any longer – in addition to that, you represent a party that adds over a low shoe in a very many other areas. We want a balanced system that ensures that there is also money for good welfare for the elderly when they get older, and that, therefore, there is also an overall sustainable pension policy that very, very many countries in the world envy us that we have managed to achieve precisely through a compromise in the Great Britain, and that, as it has been stated earlier here, the Progress Party is not part of, and it becomes very clear to me now that the Progress Party definitely does not want to be part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2573	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2578	Just briefly: I see the answers to the Council of State as a clear yes to my questions. She won't say that, but I'll interpret it as she says, yes, we have to introduce these regulatory principles because you don't want sustainability in the future pension system if you don't implement it. So you're totally dependent on reducing people's pensions in the future. That has not been denied by the Council of State. She has tried all other possible ways of bypassing this question, and I perceive it – and I would say it from this pulpit – as a clear answer to my question to the Council of State, that the answer is yes, and it cannot be interpreted in any other way. Then I just register that the Council of State disagrees, among other things. Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea Markets, who has said quite clearly and made estimates that there is no reason whatsoever to introduce the new pension scheme from a sustainability perspective – that is unnecessary. One has the opportunity to maintain current regulations, today's system, without any sustainability problems for a long time in the future, precisely because what was the basis of the pension reform and sustainability calculation, was 25 dollars of oil. We know that the oil price has been much higher since 1999, and that the pension gap has already been picked up. I am aware that this investigation was carried out in 2001, but I am concerned that the Council of State is not interested in looking at these facts. Then there was a clear question about how we look at purchasing power development, which was a question from the representative of Gullvåg. The progress party has a very good opinion of it: we mean 3.94 pst. is less than 4.73 pst. A person who gets 4.73 pst. in the development of purchasing power, there will be more purchasing power development than that of a person with 3.94 pst. So it's so simple, and so easy it's the entrance to that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4866]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2603	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2620	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2636	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2652	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2668	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2684	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2700	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2716	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2732	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2750	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2768	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2786	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2805	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2823	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2841	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2859	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2877	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2895	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4870]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2913	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4871]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2921	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e2983	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting on page 23. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain the increased emission requirements for the petroleum activity in the Barents Sea.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of the 50 km belt in the coastal zone along Troms and Finnmark where new petroleum activities are not to be permitted.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3016	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the implementation of the impact assessment of annual petroleum activities for the areas of Northland VII, Troms II and the unopened parts of Northland IV, V and VI.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3063	During the debate, Mr Lien has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to organise Statped in five regions; North, Middle, West, South and East, to ensure good accessibility of Statped services throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government, until further notice, to avoid the closure of state primary schools in the field of hearing in order to ensure and maintain a quality training offer for children and young people, irrespective of their place of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3117	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3 from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a pilot project to test digital facilities in kindergarten to strengthen contact with the home and to ensure more time for the children’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a research project to be launched to evaluate the impact of the introduction of digital aids on the quality and content of kindergarten.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3152	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an independent assessment of children and for the protection of privacy and legal certainty, as well as legislation on the handling, storage and deletion of data, in relation to the use of digital facilities in kindergarten.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3174	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to bring down the councils for child protection and social affairs and to transfer the tasks of these subjects to the ordinary courts.’ The voting boards showed that 76 votes were cast against and 25 votes in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.23.31]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3195	President, I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3200	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3205	It's always nice to be more! Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3223	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to strengthen children’s rights and the possibility of influence in the protection of children’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the follow-up of original parents in child protection matters.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess a low-threshold complaint regime for children and dependants in the protection of children’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for action plans to strengthen research and development in the field of child protection.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the concept of child protection.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3268	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate ideal actors who want to provide advice, for example in accordance with the British model The Consumer Credit Counselling Service [[CCCS]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3281	The left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e3298	During the debate, Mr Eriksson put forward two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the legislation so that current pensions are regulated in the same way as wage developments without deduction of 0,75 pst. from 1 May 2011.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «In the old-age pension during payment is regulated by 4.73 pst. from 1 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4357	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4365	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4373	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4381	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4389	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4397	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4405	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4413	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4421	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4429	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 6 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to draw up a scheme in which the employer is compensated financially with a shorter employer’s period and the sick person is compensated at a higher rate for lost earnings, in cases where Nav is absent from his obligations in the sick leave follow-up.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4448	There is a vote on proposals made by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left at the meeting held on 8 June 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian war graves are administered with the dignity of their peculiarity, and to equate them with foreign war graves.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4468	There is a vote on proposals made by the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 8 June 2011: ‘The government asks the Government to develop different models for extending access to ash and to promote the cause of the Storting to this effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4487	There is a vote on proposals from the Christian People's Party and the Left made in the Grand Duchy's meeting on 8 June 2011: ‘The government asks the Government to bring a case before the Stortinget where the municipalities themselves are given the opportunity to fix the various charges for various types of burial.’ The right has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4495	I also recommend that the Progress Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4500	It is registered – hopefully by everyone in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4516	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party made at the meeting on 8 June 2011 in Stortinget: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the KS, is asked to draw up concrete cost estimates for the extension of the number of hours from 300 to 600 hours of training in Norwegian and social knowledge, as well as the introduction of a new supervisory system and obligation for municipalities to conduct internal control.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4537	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 8 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to provide evidence of adequate Norwegian and social skills before citizenship can be granted.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4558	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 9 June 2011: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case on Enova’s future role.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4579	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 9 June 2011: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2012 to present a concrete target for energy efficiency improvement in Norway by 2020.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4600	There is a vote on proposals made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 9 June 2011: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of electrical energy supplied for use in chemical reduction, electrolysis, metallurgical and mineralogical processes, as well as electrical energy supplied for use in energy-intensive companies in the woodworking industry as a calculation-relevant quantity in its regulation which provides detailed rules on the calculation-relevant amount of electrical energy from power consumption in the power-intensive industry’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4619	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 10 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to review the law on outdoor air and other neighbouring laws and regulations in the context of the 2013 State Budget with a view to removing restrictions on new forms of outdoor air in Norwegian nature and opening up the natural environment to new user groups within an ecologically sustainable framework.’ The President has understood that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left will now support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-15.ana.ud1016e4642	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
