ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e80	The representative Tore Hagebakken, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. In order to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council of Poland, an application has been submitted to the Workers' Party's Group for leave of the representative Torfinn Opheim on the 9th and 10th of June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Laila Thorsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e103	Laila Thorsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Åse Michaelsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e108	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Per Sandberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Åse Michaelsen and Morten Ørsal Johansen on changes in the Act on the Compensation of Victims and the establishment of a Victim Care Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e113	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e142	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e151	The idea of establishing a common electricity certificate market with Sweden was already launched under the Bondevik II regime. It has taken time to put this tool in place to stimulate new renewable energy production. On 1 January 2012, a common electricity certificate market will be established with Sweden, where the target is 26.4 TWh new electricity production based on renewable sources in Norway and Sweden by 2020, provided that the agreement on Norway’s obligations under the EU renewable directive is in place. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports this establishment. The system is technology-neutral, and we must therefore assume that the most reasonable projects, i.e. those that give back the most energy for each investment crown will be developed first. There is a link between energy and the climate challenge: we will hardly be able to solve the major climate challenges without seeing them in the context of energy production. By increasing our renewable energy production, we are helping to reduce electricity consumption based on fossil sources, especially through increased power exchanges with neighbouring countries. In the Right’s view, it is important to establish greater capacity in lines and cables towards the rest of the world. In a normal year, Norway already has a net surplus of electricity. When we now establish a common electricity certificate market with Sweden, it is important that we facilitate half of the investments and the increase in renewable production in Norway. The agreement on electricity certificates states that Norwegian consumers are to finance half of the electricity certificates equivalent to 13.2 TWh, while no regulation is made on where the 26.4 TWh is to be built. In other words, the proportion of investment actually taking place in each country is up to each country. One goal for Norway should be to establish at least half of the production in Norway. It is important that conditions are facilitated by authorities both through efficient concession processes, through improved infrastructure enabling individual manufacturers to connect to a network of lines, and through increased capacity for the exchange of power with other countries. The first condition for new production is that there is actually a market for new volumes. The right is concerned that such active organisation is carried out by the Norwegian authorities. Investments in the energy sector are often large both in crowns and in complexity. This implies that predictable framework conditions and long-termity are important elements of a decision-making process. The Electric Certificate System is a market-based solution funded by consumers. Unfortunately, we must be able to say that this provides more certainty for investors than if the grants were to be granted over the annual government budgets. As mentioned at the outset in my contribution, the initiative for a single electricity licence market with Sweden was already taken under the Bondevik II administration. The time when the authorities feared that new renewable projects would be put on ice pending the establishment of this market. In order to avoid an investment dryer, an overall increase was said at the time that all those who invested in renewable projects after 1 January 2004 and who would otherwise be recognised as Green Certificates would have it. Those building up power generation should not lose out on it by introducing a market for green certificates later. These principles and political promises were not followed up in this bill by the government. According to the government’s proposal, after 7 September 2009, construction start-up power plants will be able to participate, with deductions for the time they have been in operation, while only mini and micro power plants, i.e. those less than l MW which are allowed to take part in a transitional arrangement, less the time during which they have been operating. The right has a strong understanding that many investors and small builders feel cheated and experience that they have invested on a false basis in confidence that the politicians stood by their clear 2004 promise. This is not the way we create predictability and long-term investment in new energy production. The right wants this differently and also promotes amendments to it together with other parties. In a common electricity licence market with Sweden, it is important that the rules of the game are the same on both sides of the border. Unfortunately, this is not the case with regard to the time limit for the start of power generation in order to participate in that market. The start-up period is set at the end of 31 December 2020 on the Norwegian side, while the Swedish Act will award certificates to projects that are put into operation even after 31 December 2020, but shortening the period that has elapsed since the end of 2020. The creation of new renewable projects is often complex and time consuming, among others. through long concession processes. There may also be other factors that may delay a project in time. To this end, the right, together with other parties, has proposed that the Norwegian authorities should also facilitate the authorisation of projects which actually come into operation after the end of 2020 on an application basis. On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, I address the proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e179	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e182	The Green Certificate Act and System will be a very important tool to stimulate new renewable power generation. It is therefore a major and important issue we are dealing with – for increasing renewable energy production, for climate change and for cooperation with Sweden. From 1 January 2012, a common electricity certificate market will be established with Sweden, the aim of which is to establish 26,5 TWh new electricity production based on renewable sources in Norway and Sweden by 2020. This will also be an important tool for Norway to meet its obligations under the EU renewable directive. The establishment of the electricity certificate market also depends on Norway joining the renewable directive. It will then also be negotiated with the EU on Norway's obligations in relation to this Directive. Electric Certificate is a technology-neutral and market-based system. The creation of a common market with Sweden will be very good because it gives more players in the market, greater volume of translation and more competition than a purely national market. It is important to underline the importance that new generation resulting from the upgrading and extension of installations will also be covered by the electricity certification scheme. The laws and agreements with Sweden will result in a large amount of new electricity from renewable sources in Norway. This will undoubtedly impose great demands on the grid, both in Norway and between Norway and the rest of the world. Strengthening transfers abroad is necessary to manage the increase in the amount forcefully. We are part of a Nordic and European power market, and an increase in the transmission capacity between Norway and the rest of the world will strengthen Norwegian security of supply, while at the same time we will have the surplus of power that will come in some periods as a result of new power generation. We also have a potential for more electrification here to land. Example of this is electric cars, which are now really coming too far, and there's always a discussion about whether it's possible to electrify the socket. This is a topic to which we will probably come back in connection with the government's warning of two major issues that are just bordering on this theme: an energy message and a big message on web policy. The financing of an electricity certificate shall be shared equally between Norway and Sweden, but the development of renewable energy itself may take place in both countries and will depend on the initiatives taken by each economic operator in the implementation of projects. But we must have a goal that we can achieve our half of the production objective by facilitating well in terms of concession policy, processing time, transmission system access, deployment costs and network connection costs. I have registered an exposure when it relates to the transitional arrangement proposed. It is also a representative proposal that deals with this, which will be dealt with in conjunction with the Green Certificate bill. The transitional arrangements cover all power plants starting from 7 September 2009. Furthermore, hydropower plants starting from 1 January 2004 and installed power up to 1 MW have been included. Furthermore, wind power projects that have received public grants through Enova may pay back this advance by 30 April 2012 and become part of the electricity certification scheme. It is claimed that this is a violation of the promise made by the late Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs at the time of the issue of green certificates in 2004. But then there wasn't any of the green certification schemes. So now the government has set up a transitional arrangement, as I just referred to it, a system that also government council Borten Moe has underlined. The NVE will play a central role in the management of the electricity certificate system, with both the approval and control of the electricity certificate market. I point out that under this government the capacity is when it concerns the procedure quadruple. With these increased tasks, it will be very important to ensure that the procedure is as effective as possible. It is important that the scheme is prudent and that it becomes the most objective criterion possible. In order for the scheme to be clear and robust, it is also clarified in the legislative proposal that the plant must be put into operation before the end of 2020 in order to qualify for an electricity certificate. The goal must be to reach the volume by 2020, but then one must also ensure that one has good capacity to deal with concession requests quickly enough, so that there is no shortage of what leads to the late start of installations and thus does not fall within the scheme. Some activities will be excluded from the scheme of purchasing an electric certificate. It shall apply, inter alia, to: Power-intensive industry and other activities exempt from electricity charge. A separate prescription home will be developed to take care of this. In the last few days, there have been questions about whether the cement industry comes under these exceptions. As far as I've been able to figure out, the answer is yes. The cement industry may be excluded. It must then be able to do so in conjunction with the preparation of the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e210	This is all a happy day to discuss energy policy, because now we finally have decisions that many of us have longed for for a long time. Secure energy supply is one of the key elements of a modern welfare society. The natural resources that Norway has a lot of need to benefit most people. They must experience that they are reasonably priced for Norwegian business and Norwegian households. Nevertheless, we have seen that despite our natural wealth, the balance of power has become increasingly strenuous, and people have paid very high prices. This is due, inter alia, to: that very many projects of high power have been rejected for political reasons, while many of the smaller projects that could be profitable, or profitable, have been put on hold due to unclear future framework conditions. This applies, for example: in the wind energy sector, which, despite having had an investment aid scheme or feed-in scheme, has had different framework conditions with regard to the level of aid and support system each year. It can't be like that. Today we are given the predictability that many investors will dare to risk their own money from building the country and building communities. Now an important step can be taken and the rate of investment and expansion of renewable energy can be increased. That's good. I also hope that the Workers' Party will note the positive attitude of the Advance Party, so that we will release a election campaign where the propaganda of the Workers' Party says that we only think about gas. There they should be more nuanced! It is also gratifying that the system we are now adopting is market-based and not bureaucratic. There's been a total accumulation behind it, and it's now being implemented. For the Progress Party, it was also a very clear goal that the system had to be technology neutral right from the start. The Stortinget also agreed in 2003–2004, but the Soria Moria I declaration made the system non-technological neutral. Luckily, the Progress Party and the opposition emerged by including small-scale power plants in the system being adopted. We also assume that NVE operates the system as a technology neutral and does not assign some technologies to others. The transitional system — which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur — is quite a disgraceful part of any other decision. It was a clear principle promise made by Einar Steensnæs in 2003 when he was Minister of Energy, and by a total increase in a position the following year – a principal promise: Those who ended up in the final arrangement would be included in the transitional arrangement. That promise breaks the government. It is not enough to say that there is an overall assessment, for an overall assessment is probably as much about internal power ratios as it is about an assessment of what is good for the industry. So the fact that we are now punishing the pioneers – who have stood by political promises and have done what they wanted politically – by the fact that they are now the ones who are going to take the bill for it is unsustainable. The problem is that this is not the first time. The pioneers in wind power experienced the same thing, and the pioneers in biofuels experienced the same thing. I hope that the government parties take the floor and stand for what they promised and turn in the last moment when we're going to vote. It is important that the concession treatment is technology-neutral within the country, but one must also assume that one must be fast, so that one does not risk losing Norwegian projects to Sweden. If we are slow to deal with concessions, while the Swedes are fast, projects that are natural to be put in place in Norway, however, may end up in Sweden, simply because it is about getting started quickly to be in the entire licensing period. In addition, when we know, as the rapporteur mentioned, that there will be a difference when plants are put into operation – in Norway we set the limit to 2020, while in Sweden one will be able to last longer – there is an even greater reason to fear that projects will end up in Sweden. Such a system does not have credibility and trust among Norwegian electricity customers and Norwegian taxpayers. We also need to ensure that the network connection is as similar as possible between Norway and Sweden. Nor should it be the case that high network costs for renewable energy in Norway make it possible to go to Sweden, where costs may be lower. It is important in this context – although it has not been addressed directly in this case – that the baseline for power plants is introduced, that it is not that we build less power plants than is natural because one is afraid to cross a tax limit that provides tax from the first kilowatt-hour. The inside code must ensure trust, so that one does not have to fear that the big players can operate and earn money at the expense of the small ones. It has to come in, even if it's not inside right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e236	I agree with Mr Solvik-Olsen that this is a happy day. Now one would think that the Progress Party was more concerned about SV's propaganda about the debate on gas. However, this case should also remind the Progress Party that domestic gas use may not be as central to future value creation and industrial development in Norway as the Progress Party will have it in between. As a couple have already been involved, this matter extends for several years. It has been the subject of a lot of debate, both in public and here in the Chamber, both in the previous period and in the current period. It has been very good, because it has not only raised the level of knowledge and awareness of green certificates in itself, but it has led to a long and quite consistent debate on different support schemes for energy production, and also energy saving, in recent years. I'll come back to this. New renewable energy is crucial for achieving the climate targets set by both us and other countries. Norway is a special case. Already, almost all of our power supplies are made up of clean renewable energy. That doesn't mean that we're going to borrow back. We have many areas that need increased access to power in the future, and I don't think we should feel too reassured that Norway, after all, is becoming a surplus area of power, because we are also going to undergo major changes. As I said, Norway has a long and proud history as a renewable nation on the electricity side, and with a common green certificate market with Sweden, a new chapter is being added to this story. It's important. Nearly no country in Europe is on track to meet the targets they have set to prevent uncontrolled global warming. It is true, however, that the transition from coal to gas in electricity supply in many countries results in a significant reduction in emissions, but it is not very close enough to achieve what we need to achieve. With the green certificate market, Norway is at the forefront, both at political level — in relation to how we set up mechanisms to implement increased renewable development — and also by contributing and helping other countries to improve their electricity mix. Here, transmission capacity is important, as the representative Meling was in. It's estimated that we're going to be a large surplus area of force. I'm not afraid we're going to lack things to use our new renewable energy on. That's because in a few years our society will probably look quite different. We want further industrial development in mainland Norway. At least I have a goal that most of our car fleet will become electric. It's incredibly important, and it's not as unrealistic as some people should have. On the contrary, it is wise to do so. And with smart grids and cars with good battery capacity, we also eventually get a network with a much larger dynamics in-house. In particular, we need the strength to carry out large-scale climate projects, including: electrification of the socket, which is a very central tool in the Climate Action, which we are going to come back to in the autumn, and which I expect will also be a little debate on later today in connection with other issues. Personally, I am also pleased to be part of Norway's future power generation to implement the construction of lightning trains between the big cities of the country. This presupposes, as many people have been involved, good framework conditions. Then it is worth remembering that since it took over in 2005, the red-green government has continuously facilitated this by strengthening the process capacity of the NVE, and a big message about the network policy has been notified by the Minister for Oil and Energy and is on the way. It's very joyful. So finally, I just have to talk about what I always talk about when I have the opportunity to do it, and there are other certification systems as well. There's every reason to believe that green certificates are a success. It should also raise the debate on technology-neutral support schemes for energy saving, as I know it is about, from the Progress Party to the SV. It is because we also need to ensure that when we develop a lot of new renewable energy, that that power is used as smart and as intelligent as possible, so that it benefits as best as possible, and that the loss is as low as possible. So I am pleased in the future debate on the future role of Enova also to ensure that technology-neutral and technology-driven energy-saving support schemes also become part of that debate, as the Stortinget has announced earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e255	For the Centre Party, the effort to facilitate renewable energy is central. The world is facing major climate and energy challenges in the coming years, and Norway has huge resources within renewable energy sources – water, wind and bio, to name a few. We need to move from the fossil energy society to the renewable, and Norway has good intentions to contribute to this transition. Taking more advantage of renewable resources to create renewable energy is not only the right environmental policy, but it will also create values, create activity, jobs and knowledge across the country. Sometimes it is right to go beyond the market itself to stimulate new technologies or environmentally friendly production. Schemes that can stimulate the promotion of the renewable sector are therefore important for the Centre Party and the Government. This is such an important system. That's why this is a happy day. This is an important law, and it is a law that will set tracks in the form of renewable energy production and environmental right thinking for years to come. It was very important for the Center Party to put in place a green certificate market – that is something we have been working for for many years – and it is very gratifying that we are dealing with the law on electricity certificates here in Stortinget today. It is the first time that two countries have been agreed on such a single certificate market. 26.4 TWh is a highly renewable power – a power that will provide domestic power and will help prevent future power crises. It is power that can be further processed or used in new markets. There is also hopeful excess power that can help to replace more impeccable power generation elsewhere. There is a high potential for value creation in the production of this renewable power. Production will take place throughout the country and facilitate employment and skills development. The initiative could contribute to increasing the focus on research and development in this sector, and increased access to power could also have a positive impact on existing and new industries. The promise we are discussing here today will therefore mean great opportunities for our country, but also bring with it some challenges. One of them is web. It will require updates and web deployment at all web levels. It will require that in future we discuss the challenges associated with who will fund this network. It is clear that the central network has an even distribution of costs, while the need for deployment at other network levels will depend to a large extent on the busnet structure we have and the already existing power generation. Renewable resources are often found in areas with poor network capacity, and it will therefore be a major challenge to ensure both the development of the necessary networks and a fair distribution of the costs of building this network. If too much of these costs is passed on to producers, production may not be realized, despite the fact that it is desired by society. At the same time, most of us would say that it is unfeasible for those who live in areas with renewable potential to pay an unreasonably large part, or a greater part, of the cost of the infrastructure needed. So I'm glad the government announces a message about the web policy ahead. It'll be important. So an increased focus on concession management both in the department and in the directorate is needed to get away from the queue of concession applications that are and that are now coming up with renewable energy. It'll be an important contribution from us as government powers to realize the bet that this is about. The transitional arrangements following the common certification market provide that all new construction start-up power plants after the date of the agreement with Sweden will be part of the certificate market from 2012, with the remaining of the 15 years taken into account in the certification scheme. In addition, it is made clear that the scheme will become retroactive for all power plants with power up to 1 MW. For the Central Party, this has been a challenging matter. We have made it clear both in this room and outside all the time that we wanted the transitional arrangement to be more wide-ranging than the way it is designed. We are content with the transitional arrangement when it concerns the renewable energy that was built from the autumn of 2009 until the certificate market enters into force. But we would have liked several of the small power plants to enter into the transitional arrangement as liabilities for small power plants with start-ups after 2004. We've done this position before in this room because we haven't won out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e281	In a sense, there's a certain historical suspense about this issue of electric certificates. The government is today fulfilling its promise to establish a market for green electricity certificates, six years after it was originally to be in place. Yeah, better late than never, you could say. If what it looks like today, the moon landing at Mongstad will probably be similarly delayed. So the government is not very fast on the trigger of energy policy. The government has not been particularly busy fulfilling its promises. But if you have time to wait for six years, then the red-green government is a good government for you. As of 1 January 2012, a common electricity licence market will be established with Sweden. The aim is to establish 26.4 TWh new electricity production based on renewable sources in Norway and Sweden by 2020. The introduction of electricity certificates will also be an important tool for Norway to fulfil its obligations under the EU renewable directive. Norway is the energy nation. We are the renewable nation, and it is important for the Christian People's Party also in this context to challenge the government that we do not pry on the EU's obligations to take on the EU's renewable directive, but that we deliver. If we are to deliver in the context of the EU renewable directive and on the electricity certificate market, it is important to strengthen transfers to the rest of the world. We need to deal with more power. Norway and the Nordic region are likely to face a net power surplus of around 40 TWh by 2020, both as a result of the electricity certification market and as a result of energy efficiency improvement. This will make it important to organise opportunities for increased exchange of power with the rest of Europe. The financing of electricity certificates shall be shared equally between Norway and Sweden, while the development of renewable energy itself may take place in both countries. Where the development takes place will therefore depend on the initiatives taken by each economic operator to launch projects. It is important that good provision is made to enable us in Norway to achieve our half of the production target. Today is not only a day for fulfilling promises; it is also a day for breaking promises. The actors in the small-scale power industry, who have indicated that they feel cheated, are present in the gallery and follow this debate today as well – a debate they have followed many times in this Chamber. When the Storting discussed the scheme on green certificates in 2004, a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment stated the following: ‘The Committee considers that it is essential that investments in new renewable energy do not stop pending such a market and the Committee considers that all those investing in projects from 1 January 2004 and who will otherwise be awarded a green certificate are granted it. In this context, the Committee refers to the press release by Minister for Oil and Energy, Einar Steensnæs, where he says: ‘I would like to stress that those building up power generation are not now going to lose on it by establishing a market for green certificates. Certificateable plants for electricity production starting after 1 January 2004 will be able to participate in a green certificate system even if such a system had to be established after that date.» The Committee supports this.’» It's a long quote, but an important quote. I can only see that these principles and the political promise given that day are not followed up in the legislative proposition we are discussing today. Construction start-up power plants after 7 September 2009 will be part of an electricity certificate market, less the time they have been in operation. However, for power plants built between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009, only mini- and micro-power plants will be allowed to participate in the transitional arrangements, less the time they have been in operation. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that it is important that we are reliable and predictable. This confidence has led individuals and businesses to invest in small-scale power plants after 2004. One must be able to trust that what a unanimous committee on the Stortinget says is being followed up. A number of individuals and businesses have made large investments and have taken significant economic risks in building renewable energy. They've done what a bunch of people have asked for, but today they haven't received an award they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e312	As others have said before me, we can finally debate the law on electricity certificates. After so many years of so many different, but inadequate support schemes, we are finally a major step closer to the goal of green certificates, a goal that all the parties have agreed on, but which despite this has been difficult to achieve. Energy expansion requires many years of planning and use of money up to the end of the development plan. It is therefore urgent to put in place renewable energy framework conditions that trigger expansion, so that Norway does not lag behind in achieving a transition from fossil to renewable energy and in meeting the objectives of the renewable energy directive. I have spent time on this before here in Stortinget, but I want to say it again: the left still does not understand how it is possible for the government to use time and effort to negotiate Norway's renewable commitments in the negotiations with the EU, time and forces that should have been used to bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in accordance with a climate settlement they have agreed to sign. But aside from that. The left is satisfied with the fact that there is now a total collapse that recognises that the market is the best engine to put in place a renewable investment in Norway. The prices on the electricity certificates are determined by the market. If a high level of renewable energy is produced, the price will be low, but if there is insufficient capacity to meet the policy objectives, the demand for green certificates will be higher than the supply. This will lead to an increase in price and thus make it more profitable to invest in renewable electricity production. This is good after Left's view. However, a large majority here in Stortinget believe that some actors should not be involved in this fissure layer. The majority believe that large parts of the industry should not pay the real price of energy, and therefore want the entire bill to be pushed over to normal customers. As a result, Norwegian consumers will have to pay more to avoid industry. There's a lot of energy here. For the Left, it is an important principle that the polluter should pay, and we would also have thought that was important for some other parties here in the Storting. We therefore do not understand that this principle should not apply in this context. I would like to address the proposal that will be distributed in the Chamber during the day. Of course, the left supports the minority proposal in the setting to include small power plants in a green certificate transition scheme. I also propose, after hearing Mr Sande's comments, that the Central Party also support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e325	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e329	Let me first say that I am happy to be here today on what, at my discretion, is an energy policy celebration day for the Stortinget – now first linked to what will be a groundbreaking decision to create a good and secure framework around large and larger investments in renewable energy, and later on today related to large and forward-looking investments on Norwegian pedestal. We have now submitted the law on electricity certificates. From the government's point of view, we are very pleased that we have succeeded in achieving a common market with Sweden, and it is good to note that there is broad support for the government's policy at this point. The bill on the table also includes a reference to the electricity licence market and a reference to Enova, one of which once again breaks down the principles of business management and the rationale for conversion policy. The text provides the basis for the autumn negotiations on a new four-year agreement. The work on the electrical certification system has been a long process. In 2005, the Government stated in the Government Declaration that it would introduce a mandatory green certification market. However, negotiations with the Swedish authorities did not take place. Afterwards, a new initiative was taken to create a single market, and it is also in the light of this need to see – and understand – the transitional arrangements in place. In 2008, Sweden’s Minister for Industry Maud Olofsson and Norway’s Minister for Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, presented an understanding of the development of a single market for electricity certificates. In September 2009, the two Ministers presented an agreement on the principles of further cooperation. Finally, in December 2010, they were able to submit a protocol on the work of the single electricity licence market and the principles of further cooperation. It is therefore very gratifying that today we are able to deal with this bill. The purpose of the Electricity Certificates Act is to contribute to increased electricity production from renewable energy sources. Together with Sweden, we will establish 26.4 TWh during 2020, and Norway has committed to pay for 13.2 of these. This will mean a significant increase in the rate of expansion in the coming years, and, as many have experienced, it will face many new challenges. We need to have a concession system that's adapted to the challenges. There the government has shown both ability and will over the past few years. We have to have a network system that's dimensioned to get away from this. There, Statnett has presented very offensive plans for the development of the Norwegian central network. We also need to establish, I believe, that these investments will benefit the entire population and business in the form of a more robust energy supply system, a better power balance and a reasonable electricity pricing. There has been a debate on whether this will lead to a large surplus of power. I would have been careful to establish from this pulpit that the creation of a single electricity certificate market would result in a huge surplus of power. An aluminiumworks, such as Alcoa in Finnmark, electrification of the base, continued consumption growth – all these are elements that need to be included in that calculation. So there's no reason to say that we're going to have problems using this force a little bit into the future. The law has provisions governing the supply, demand and placing on the market of electricity certificates. Investors will have expectations about electricity prices and electricity certification prices, and this will form the basis for their decisions. The frameworks laid down in the law will be important in the evaluations. I also stress that the frames should be long-term, stable and predictable. That's why we've chosen to be tough on the exceptions, and that's why we've also chosen to be tough on the period you can sign up for. It is a very predictable system that is now on Stortinget's table. We are further working on establishing the binding agreement between Norway and Sweden, and of course also on the implementation of the renewable directive, which is the prerequisite for our success. This is – summarised – a good day for climate, a good day for security of supply, a good day for balance and price in the Norwegian electricity system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e352	It's being opened for line change. The President has realized that Ketil Solvik-Olsen has asked for one line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e357	I can take two!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e362	He can take two; then he gets it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e365	Thank you, President. There is a lot we agree on in this matter, especially after the government has waived the discrimination of the Soria Moria I Declaration against small power plants. However, there are some areas where there are challenges, and this is not least about ensuring that the systems in Norway and Sweden treat the projects so equally that no one chooses to invest in Sweden rather than in Norway because of the policy in this area. It must be the resources, the economy and the environmental interventions that define where it makes sense to invest — not political inflexibility or inequality. One of the things we've taken up from the opposition is this with the award of an electric certificate when it's limited to 2020. If you are a little delayed because the network connection is too late, because the pressure in the construction market means that you do not have to install the turbines as quickly as you would like, then it may mean that the uncertainty makes people choose to invest in Sweden because there you get heat after 2020 too, while you do not get it in Norway. Will the Council of State ensure that there is equal treatment between the Norwegian and Swedish systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e372	That is of course a relevant question. I think we have to see this in the light of the fact that we are now linking ourselves to what is already an established Swedish system that has worked over time. We are not sure whether Sweden has decided to wind up this scheme after the period to which we have committed ourselves. I believe that – as I said in my speech – we need to focus on predictability and firm frameworks around the decisions taken. And a signal now that certificates can be awarded after the end of the allocation period in 2020 could also create unfortunate adjustments in the system and have effects that I am absolutely sure that both I and Solvik-Olsen's representative agree on will be unfortunate. It's a choice that the government has made. There is no opening in today’s legal text to be awarded an electricity certificate after the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e377	I understand the argument of the Council of State, but my point was to ensure equal treatment. The progress party primarily wants us to open up so that those who came right after will be allowed to be in the system anyway. This is done by saying that the objectives should be the same as they are now, but one must be able to allow it to be included on application. The fact that the Council of State rejects it is to this extent expected, but the principle here is nevertheless the important thing. If one sees a difference between Norwegian and Swedish practice, it will also create uncertainty about the investment in Norway. You don't get rid of the uncertainty by just holding on to the position the government has now. Will the Council of State ensure that Norway and Sweden have reached a consensus before this comes into force in 2012, so that the same practice will apply on both sides? Then I would like to say that I can accept that what is the lead position of the Progress Party is not valid, but at least it should be similar in Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e384	What we're completely in agreement about is that it should be as much system as possible. There are two different countries, so I think it will always be possible to put your finger on small differences in the systems. But our goal, of course, is not to suboptimize resources, or to get investments in a place you really shouldn't get them because the systems don't work as they should. I think the most important thing we can do now in Norway, in addition to establishing this predictability, is to make sure that our concession system is dimensioned in order to keep away from the amount of application, so that it would be allowed to start not being on the concession system. I think it is important to make sure that we build up the necessary networks as soon as possible, so that the online access does not become the plug in the system either. Then it's my opinion that we can do this, we should be well able to take on our half that these commitments by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e389	There is great disappointment in the small power industry over the lifting break when it comes to green certificate transitional arrangements. About 150 small power plants lose 1.2 billion. Note that they did not join the transitional arrangement. Governments have previously said that, after an overall assessment, they cannot meet these clear promises. What does the Council of State add to the ‘total assessment’, which means that it cannot fulfill the clear promise of being part of the transitional green certificate arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e394	In my post I went a little bit of the story related to the establishment of a common certificate market with Sweden. The promises on which a total increase was made and to which the representative Lødemel refers now were made in the context of an initiative taken in 2005. That initiative did not take place. No agreement was reached, and the project was scrapped. Nevertheless, the government was able to agree on a scheme to ensure that all power plants with power under 1 MW of access to transitional arrangements from 2004 and all the possibility to participate in transitional arrangements from 2009. It's the total assessment that's behind this. Then I have great respect for those who have not joined. It is my hope that the economy of the projects that have been carried out is not of such a nature that you lose money on them, but that you continue to make money on them. It's hoping and I think that's going to be a fascination.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e401	The lot colour of the centre party is green. Green jobs, green energy, were probably some of the spearheads in the 2009 elections. Today, our pastors, those who are engaged in entrepreneurship and those who are concerned with development in relation to small power, are not being premiered, but they are the ones who have chosen to sit on the fence. The representative Sande has expressed this pain as it is probably also within the Center Party, considering the violations of the promises contained in this case. I want to challenge the state councils in the future, I view the state council as a forward-looking state council. The Council of State says there are some challenges ahead. Enova is an important tool for the government, but I wonder how the council will use Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e409	First of all, it is a very forward-looking department, and government, which is now getting an impact on the establishment of a certification system that will mean a shift in the development of our renewable energy resources. It will be shown in the form of hydropower plants, wind turbines, transmission systems throughout the country and an investment rate that this country has probably not seen since the 1950s and 1960s. For those of us in whom there is a slight force-socialist, this is a very good day, and especially when you can combine it with being green and climate-friendly. Enova is mentioned in the proposition, Enova will get another problem because we're now establishing a different system for what's going on in electricity. In addition, Enova will have major and important tasks in the future, as today. The government will return to the State budget for next year with a new review of Enova’s tasks and roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e416	Pollutants have to pay was an important principle when the climate agreement was concluded in its time. As I said in my post, the Left is critical that the industry escapes, so that it is the even consumer who has to pay for this. Does the Council of State, which now appears to be a Green Council of State, share this concern with the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e421	Definitely not, to be very clear. I think it's a very strange reasoning left to the bottom of the conclusion. The use of industrial production in Norway is not polluting. On the contrary, our industry represents the most forward-looking, good and forward-looking solutions that the world needs more if we are to meet the challenges ahead of us. So, of course, we're not interested in imposing industry framework conditions that either put down or move abroad. We need to develop the industry we have. Then I am also a little questioning that you choose to have the entrance that there is a polluter who pays. Buying electricity to produce aluminium is in my head not pollution. Buying electricity is an expression that you need it. It's only at the moment you have some kind of emissions that you have to pay. I think it is quite reasonable that the industry should not be involved and pay for the certificate market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e430	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e435	I join those who have said that it is a happy day. I would also like to point out that the introduction of the electricity certificate will be an important tool for Norway to meet its commitments to renewable industrial production under the EU renewable directive. Norway is a major energy nation. I have also noticed that in connection with the first discussions on a single electricity certificate market with Sweden in 2003, as has been said earlier here, the then oil and energy ministers promised a transitional arrangement in which electricity certification facilities that had started after 1 January 2004 would participate in the electricity certificate market when it came into place. However, the Stortinget did not provide a clarification on the installations to be included in the licence market. It's important to bring it with you. The agreement between Norway and Sweden of 7 September 2009 clarified the essential framework for the common electricity licence market. In addition, it has been noted that the State Council of Ola Borten Moe has made it clear to the industry that they cannot expect a change in the transitional regime from November 2009. The inclusion of some hydropower plants, as also stated here, back to 2004 and the selection of start-up as a criterion have been determined following an overall assessment taking into account different considerations and interests. We also note that the law on electricity certificates and the agreement with Sweden will provide a large amount of new electricity from renewable energy sources in Norway. However, it also demands the line network both in Norway and between Norway and the rest of the world. Strengthening transfers abroad is necessary to deal with the increased amount of force. We would also point out that Norway is currently part of a European and Nordic power market, and that Norway, in particular, for dry years, is dependent on imports of power in order to have a satisfactory security of supply. I would also like to stress that the development of new capacity between Norway and the rest of the world must benefit Norwegian consumers and Norwegian businesses. What is also good is that the government has announced two big messages – one an energy message, the other about network policy. Then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss energy and web policy. What I think is incredibly important, and as we have also been highlighted here today, is what has been done in relation to industry, and that you have a competitive industry that can compete with other countries. It is then important to have a good framework for competitive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e456	Electric Certificate is a market-based, technology-neutral and important tool to stimulate new renewable energy production. He is very much wanted, and the need for such stimulation has unfortunately stood in the brink for too many years. As others have also said, the small power industry has made clear that they feel tricked by the government by not including power plants built between 1 January 2004 and 7 September 2009. It is also regrettable that Section 8 of the bill states that: ‘production plants put into operation after 31 December 2020 do not qualify for an electricity certificate’. One might agree and understand that a timetable for phasing out the scheme is being set and that there should be a good deal of volume of renewable power that will give the right to a certificate. The problem is that the legislative proposal on this subject makes a difference in the framework conditions in Sweden and Norway in this area. Swedish law will assign certificates to projects that will be put into operation after 31 December 2020, but in that case a reduction in the number of years one will receive a certificate, corresponding to the period of time after 31 December 2020 one has started. With background in, inter alia: long duration of treatment for concession applications may be due to the fact that planned power plants are not expected to become operational until 31 December 2020 and therefore do not qualify for an electricity certificate. The Council of State addressed this long-term problem, so there are clear expectations of a reduction in this particular treatment period, especially after he has now declared himself to be a force-socialist. It would be very unfortunate if one comes into the situation that, due to delays in processes, no certificates are issued for projects that come into operation after 31 December 2020. Such a difference between Norway and Sweden will make a significant difference in the risk of projects in these two countries. For an investor in Norway, a delay in a project so that it does not come into operation until 31 December 2020 could result in a significant reduction in income and could lead to a failure to start a good project. That it also leads to a distortion of investment from Norway to Sweden is another unfortunate consequence. The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party takes on this inconsequential consequence, and the proposal should have the unanimous support of the Stortinge, particularly in the light of the very unfortunate start of this tool between 2004 and 2009. The representative proposal also implies that all construction start-ups from 1 January 2004 which qualify for green certificates from 2012 will be included in the transitional arrangements. So a few words about SV's holding that gas is not such an important part of the nutrition bill, and that's right. The reason for this is that renewable and sensible use of domestic gas, which would give reduced global CO2 emissions, is not yet possible, due to symbolic policies of which SV is clearly a follower.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e479	The next speaker is Bendiks H. Arnesen. The President will allow himself to use the opportunity to congratulate Arnesen on his 60th birthday, which I think he is using in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e482	Thank you, President. The issue of electric certificates has often been mentioned in this room, and I have recorded an impatience in this context, and I think that is good. But I also think it is important that we take the time to create a good basis for such comprehensive and important decisions. Now this important thing comes into place, and I think I'm all happy about it. The proposal makes the details clear and the new scheme will be ready for implementation in 2012. In the Soria Moria statement, the government says that the vision is that Norway should be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. We are so lucky here in Norway to be in possession of both renewable resources and non-renewable resources. I believe that both options need to be optimal and sound. The government's clear objective is to significantly increase renewable energy production in the coming years. Neither should there be any disagreement. We have lots of wind and waves, we have hydropower resources, we have access to forest, and we have tidal water. Yes, we even have some sun sometimes. I think we all have reason to rejoice that the part of the Soria Moria Declaration's objectives of renewable energy and its exploitation are also being followed up in a powerful way. Here too, a good piece of political work is being done by the government. I think there is a broad consensus that such questions are of the greatest importance to all of us. This form of cross-border energy cooperation, and in cooperation with our neighbours, is also of the utmost importance. In the case of Enova, it is undoubtedly right to keep this tool as our main tool for energy efficiency improvement and testing immature technologies. By making better use of energy, large resources can be released. There's still a lot that can be done here, but this isn't going to happen by itself either. That's why we still need Enova as an important tool. I think that the Council of State also gave a good account of this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e495	The Bondevik II administration started work on establishing a single certificate market with Sweden in 2002–2003. Already in 2005 a good start had been made on this work. It was possible to end these negotiations in a relatively short time when the Stoltenberg government took over in 2005. Unfortunately, this government did not want to continue these negotiations, and that is the main reason why we have to wait until 1 January 2012 before that arrangement is implemented. That's too bad. For the scheme of electric certificates, it is very important for the small-scale industries. What's even worse is the lifting break that red-green politicians have brought to those who started building small-scale power after 1 January 2004. The small power unit has provided evidence that the total loss is approximately 1.2 billion. kr during the licence period. The small - power builders are pioneers of the day in many ways. They're willing to bet, and they want to create values and employment in society. Nevertheless, they are systematically countered by red-green politicians with lifting breaks and devastating fiscal policies. It does not accelerate this important district industry. Arne Hjeltnes, central member of the board of directors of the Right, writes so strikingly about this in an article in the Newspaper: "And when the farmers in the Sogn & Fjordane Gloppen combine to build a power plant, it is precisely the watchpower of the towns they represent; want to manage themselves and create values for themselves and their own. Small-scale power plants are short-range and great renewable energy. If the towns are to survive, we'll need a lot of angry people who create. But what's the thank you from the big community? 141 percent tax. The small power company supplied electricity corresponding to 1,500-1,600 households and went with three million leftovers. The tax return from the state was four and a half million. The angry peasants had been reasonable and secured long-term contracts on their stream, instead of selling it on ridicule. The state thinks they have to pay taxes on what they might have thought, if they had sold it on spot. A fantastic creative principle, which one must have worked all your life in an office far from Byrkelo to come up with. In addition, of course, they have to pay both property taxes and other taxes. In other words, the tax was 165 percent of the result.’ Right wants to do something about this when we get into government. The rise of the land-interest tax entry point to 10 MW, already proposed by the Right in the revised national budget this year, will help too many. Today, the Government Party may address previous lifting break and support its proposal to include all power generation qualified to participate in the electricity certificate market with start-up after 1 January 2004, if they have my promises to remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e515	In Rogaland, 26 windmills have been traveled over the past few weeks, and a further six mills are to be built before the project is completed. This is a project that has been co-financed by state support at the top of a quarter of a billion. kr. I must say that even a wind turbine trailer that I am surprised at how positive the project has been received. In the media, one often wants to create the impression that people want wind power, but the mills should be placed elsewhere in the country. But I think we can establish that the term 'not in my backyard' in terms of wind power is an imaginary media truth, and that it also applies when it comes to small power. I think there is a lot of support in the population for us to make more use of the renewable energy resources we have in Norway. An introduction of an electricity certificate from 1 January 2012 will be a very important contribution to the development of more renewable energy. Electricity certificates are environmental, energy and industrial policies. It has been important for the Central Party that the scheme should be technology neutral. It is therefore very gratifying that the arrangement we are dealing with today is considerably more offensive in terms of small-scale power than that contained in the first Soria Moria statement. Then there has also been a debate about the transitional regime, and I understand the frustration that some people experience about that matter. I insist that the solution we are dealing with today is significantly better than if the agreement had been based on the leaders in the Soria Moria I statement. For in the choice between an electricity certification scheme, where only hydropower below 1 MW is included and all eligible persons were granted a transitional scheme, as notified by Soria Moria I, and a solution where all small forces are included, I prefer the latter scheme. That's what we get today. Then I register that individual parties and representatives today are very tall and dark. The representative Lødemel from the Right speaks very nicely. He brings out the farmers in the Gloppen, but what one has to remember is that the representative Lødemeel and Right are the most intense powerline opponents in this hall and about throughout the West. There is little worth with lots who want to give support – whether they don't get a concession, or whether they have to look at a cable that's in the lake past the farm where they live. One has to have parties that dare to stand up to say that we can't deploy wind power without having windmills, we can't deploy small power without having pipelines, we can't deploy wave power without intervening, and we can't deploy renewable energy without having power lines. The centre party is a high-renewable industry party on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e530	It must feel good when the representative Pollestad vents his frustration over the politics of the government he is part of, leads, and he really disagrees with. That's what makes me take the word. I am provoked when the representative Stroem tries to explain to the pioneers in the small power industry the breach of the promise. Power is right in saying that the 2003 promises did not specify the technologies to be applied, but that was not necessary either. There was no need in a fundamental promise about how the transitional arrangements should be, to define the technologies, because the promise said that those who join the final arrangement would be included in the transitional arrangements. Small power over 1 MW is part of the final system and must therefore be part of the transitional system by means of the principal promise, but they are not. So it's a breach of promise. It's also important to bring the history here. The reason why the principal promise was made from former oil and energy minister Steensnæs and confirmed from a total collapse, including the Workers' Party and the representative Stroem, was the fear of investment drying in the very small power industry. It was on the small-power openings Steensnæs mentioned this. It's just to read Stavanger Aftenblad for 2003–2004: it's in the small power industry's meetings, it's in the opening up of small power plants that it's mentioned – the small power industry must not put projects on ice, because they're going to be involved if the final scheme comes into place. They're in on it, but they're not in the arrangement, so it's a breach of promise. The representative Stroem must come up with some better explanation that seems a little more credible, if he should at least be able to do it with his raised head, for this I think is embarrassing. It is a good confession from the representative Pollestad that it is the Soria Moria I statement that created this problem. So it's today's government that has created the problem, because from a combined Bondevik government and a total collapse before the Soria Moria declaration was written, the small power plants were an important part of the green certificate investment. So I'll spend the last minute on energy saving. I am very pleased when the representative Serigstad Valen draws up white certificates, because it has tried several times to drag in as an order for the government to investigate, but without hearing. There's obviously a majority for that in the Biggest, but we can't realize it because some people get fucked by the government they're in. It's sad. The opposition proposes that it should be a target for energy efficiency improvement by 2020 and that a proposal for a target should be promoted in 2012. It doesn't seem to get a majority either. Then it becomes a little empty words and false promises when you talk hot about it, but are not willing to follow it up. Enova will now have very modified tasks due to green certificates. They'll get even more changed problems if we actually get a majority of white certificates. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will come to Stortinget and discuss Enova's framework in the future before he starts giving new steering signals to Enova. It's important for Enova to have a legitimacy for what they're doing even after this government leaves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e548	I have a great deal of understanding that this matter of transitional arrangements is a difficult and demanding matter for the Central Party, which wants to appear to be in charge of the districts and agriculture. Here we are talking about what represents an important additional income, the source of income for many farmers and others out in District Norway. I have a great deal of understanding that the representative Pollestad and others think this is incredibly demanding to stand and explain. Nevertheless, it does not defend the right-wing attack by the representative Pollestad on this issue and in energy policy in general. During the period of the Bondevik II government, a number of small-scale projects were undertaken. In the past, there were just as strict demands for an application for small power as it was for a large expansion in line with Alta. Government Bondevik II made some changes to that. They streamlined the concession process, and the result was that we got a lot of applications for small power plants. A fear then – when the discussion about green certificates came – that we would get an investment dryer in a process that had just shot speed. There was a total accumulation that was concerned with this, and which therefore placed on the table promises that these small power plants would be included in a transitional arrangement. I hope, of course, that the government parties will vote with the opposition parties in this case on transitional arrangements. But if they don't, and if the policy that the government is now putting up with is being pursued, we will nevertheless allow ourselves to hope that the government parties are observant of the disadvantages this has brought to those who are proud of political promises, to those who were pioneers, and to those who have invested, and to arrange for other ways to compensate for the disadvantage these now'suffers', as a result of the failure of the government parties to stand up to the promises made in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e557	We have had a wide-ranging debate, I think, that there is a great deal of support for the policy pursued by the government and for the legislative proposal that has now been presented to the Stortinget. Of course, the government is pleased, but it is also an important signal to all those who now have plans and good projects in the renewable sector. There is broad political agreement on what will be a safe and sound framework for investments in renewable electricity production in the future. So this day and this decision mark a very important event in Norwegian energy policy. There's one two-three things I could imagine commenting on. One is the transitional regime, and just to establish it: there is no doubt that the Central Party is behind the government's policy on this issue. We have put in place transitional arrangements that ensure all small forces below 1 MW of participation in the certificate market from 2004, and all are in place from 7 September 2009. I think that the point that the representative Pollestad finally had related to the need for a network is relevant. In any case, without an efficient infrastructure and an adequate infrastructure capable of transporting the energy from where it is produced to the market, to someone who buys it, these energy resources will not be used. I therefore hope that at a later stage, when we present the online message, Stortinget will be able to join in the overall and effective framework around the continued development of the Norwegian central network. When it comes to white certificates and the role of Enova, I think it's important to establish that there's a great deal of consensus about the goal. The aim is, of course, to have an effective energy savings and saving system, and then it becomes an appropriate assessment of whether support schemes or a white certificate are used. What is at least certain is that Enova's role, Enova's framework and Enova's tasks will be thoroughly addressed in the 2012 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e568	When I take the floor, it is to support the representative Pollestad in his reasoning. We must tolerate both criticism and boast about what the government is doing in the field of energy policy. But we must also have the right to place the opposition party in charge of their political position, and that must be the context of the policy also of the opposition party. In this case, the right has a battle against the Ørskog-Fardal line. The representative Lødemel built his entire election campaign on that matter. It would mean, if it were not realized in 2015, which we now have the hope of achieving, that no new renewable project would have a chance of a green certification scheme in this area, simply because the power has to have a line to get to the market. That's what I thought Right should put heavily on itself. Progress is now being made on the Ørskog-Fardal line, which is an important renewable project. We've got green certificates in place. It is not the previous government that has been put in place, but this government. In that case, I thought that the focus should now be on how to create a good framework for an important industry, renewable industries: important for value creation, important for employment throughout the country and important for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e575	I had not actually intended to speak during this debate, but the last speech by the representative Sande tempted me to say something anyway, because the representatives Sande and Pollestad have the grace of fear – they are blessed with the gift of fear, to say it like that. I remember the front page of the Bergen Official Journal the day before the 2009 elections. Then the then state councillor, Terje Riis-Johansen, stood up and said, "I want a cable in Hardanger." There was a need for a real debate on alternatives in Hardanger. This does not mean that the Right has been or is opposed to new power lines neither in Hardanger nor on the Ørskog-Fardal route. But that means that we were critical of the process that the government led to, a process that led to record-breaking protests in local communities, which led to local governments and individuals feeling overwhelmed by the government. We were critical of that. We were critical of the lack of investigations into alternatives to the air voltage that was being requested. We were not critical of power. We were not critical of either the Hardanger line or the Ørskog-Fardal line, but we were critical of the process, and it's something quite different from what Sande and Pollestad put forward here. We have always been concerned that if we are to realise the potential for renewable energy production that we have in Norway, we need to have more lines in place. We have been critical of the fact that the Ørskog-Fardal line has not yet come further than what has been done, even though we have also asked questions about some parts of both of these sections, if it could have been done differently. Then we finally got the investigations we had asked for for a long time when it was about the Hardanger line. Then it turned out that the alternative that the government has now taken was the best, but that process should have come a lot sooner. That was our criticism. Those options should have been illuminated in a completely different way. That was our criticism. That is why it becomes almost unfair when the representative Sande and the representative Pollestad make the criticism against the Right as they do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e584	It has been very important to put in place the scheme of green certificates, electricity certificates. Someone has to pay for this, but in this process it became very clear and visible that some of the industry that has been exposed to competition had to and should be exempted. This is why it is proposed to provide a legal framework for exempting a good deal of power-intensive industry, which is previously also exempt from electricity charges. We are totally dependent on the competitively exposed industry being able to survive here in the country. It's in the name, he's very competitive – and absolutely necessary for jobs and value creation around the country. You can get full effect of the Green Certificate Act even if you exempt a part of this activity. I mentioned in my post that there has been a lot of focus in the cement industry in the last few days. I hope that you can find a solution to that. That's why I very much react to the fact that the Left comes up with a proposal that they put on the table here, to remove the possibility in the bill to exempt this industry. It actually tells what kind of vision the Left has on industrial policy. I think there will be many who today will notice it all around the country. In the end, I thought it was very good and good that State Councillor Borten Moe made it clear that, of course, the Central Party is behind the government's proposal for a transitional arrangement. I had almost said that it was really just going to be missing. So it was his predecessor, Terje Riis-Johansen, who came to us with the proposal for this transitional arrangement. There have been certain reasons here for someone to say that they have lost in this matter. Then I would say that this is a matter which has been left entirely by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e597	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e600	I just want to stress to the Council of State that I believe that the future of Enova is so important that it should be treated as a matter of its own, not just in the State budget – even if it should be in the State budget as well. So it's true that the decision we're now making is under the government of the day. But it is not to be demeaned for the work the Bondevik government did, as I believe a try to produce it. It is today's government that postponed the decision for five years, because the Soria Moria I declaration was as misguided as it was. The government has to take that responsibility. Finally, I do not need to defend Right online policy. But I want to clarify to the government that the then head of Statnett, Hoelsetter, at a meeting in Ålesund in May 2006 said that if we get a normal process for Ørskog-Fardal, the line could be finished in the autumn of 2011. This government has been running for the whole period. Now we get the decisions in 2011. Then this government is not the driver that the representative Pollestad and the representative Sande give the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e609	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 4602 and 4607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e625	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e634	I am very proud of the welfare society that is built in Norway and that we will continue to build in the years to come. Development has been a wild development, it has come as a result of political struggle and dissent. But there is no doubt that the oil and gas industry has contributed in large quantities, both through the crowns, through workplaces and through competences. The petroleum industry and the money from it have been with and developed Norway. The proposition we are now about to decide on is a plan for the development and operation of the Ecofiche South and Firefish II. As rapporteur on this matter, I have to say that I am very pleased that we have this debate and are going to make the decisions today, because it is exactly 40 years ago today that Ecophonic was opened. Ekofisk was the first commercial field that was opened, and is today the largest field on Norwegian continental shelf, measured in daily production. Over the course of its 40 years, the Ecofiche has undergone major changes — and the level of ambition of the project has increased as competences have increased. When the field was first expanded, the expectation was 17 pst. Today, the expected extraction rate for Ekofisk is about 49 pst. With this expansion of the Ekofisk south, we're getting to an expected extraction rate of 52 pst. This is a substantial increase — an increase of 35 percentage points. Over the course of its 40 years, the field has produced insanely large values for society, and this PUD facilitates eco-fiction to continue to give great values to society. Not everyone believed in years back. The fact that Ekofisk has been able to develop so much in the last 40 years also tells us how much society and this industry have evolved. Over 40 years, the Norwegian oil and gas industry has evolved into a world-leading industry, and today more than 200,000 people work in or indirectly linked to this industry. Over 40 years of oil production, we have also shown that it is possible to combine very profitable oil and gas industries with stringent safety and environmental requirements. I am very pleased that, throughout all these years, we have been holding up a pressure from the authorities, which together with the industry and the trade union movement has made this possible. These two extensions, Ecofiscal South and Firefish II, will both contribute to increased extraction rates. It is a central objective of the government's petroleum policy, and it is one of the major challenges we are facing in the future. At the same time, we are taking steps to open up new areas and facilitate the further development of the petroleum industry, but we must have a major focus on getting more out of the fields that are already open. Ekofisk is an example of that being possible. Ecofiscal South and Firefis II together will involve investments of over 64 billion. kr and will give a present value of more than 30 billion. kr. It is a goal for the Workers' Party and the Government to maintain the level of activity on the pedestal and continue to maintain the competitiveness of Norwegian pedestal. I believe that these developments will make a very positive contribution to that. But then, man-made climate change is one of the biggest problems we're facing. It is then important to find measures that allow us to achieve our objectives in a good way. It is practice to explore the possibilities of supplying offshore activities with power from countries in the context of new developments. The climate agreement, on which most of the parties have been involved, to which the Workers' Party has joined, and is firmly committed, also underlined this. For this reason, the power of the country is also determined for these two expansions. Overall, these expansions will not require more power generation, and the increased power demand can easily be covered by the production already in place out there. I would like to stress that electrification will reduce emissions from Norwegian oil industry and that there is a targeted measure if there is a reasonable relationship between cost and emission reduction. However, in the treatment of this PUD, the developer is asked to provide a new study of the possibilities of using power from countries, which will be delivered to the ministry by 1 June 2012. I am very pleased with that, because it gives us the opportunity to see electrification in connection with the government's climate communication. Ecofiically, for 40 years people have been able to stand in this room and adopt a budget of thousands of billion dollars, which has been able to make everyday life better for people. We have to be incredibly grateful for that. The petroleum industry has contributed to a large community and has given many people a roof over their heads and food on the table. As a rogalending, it's particularly fun to stand here today and see what ringing effects Ecofisk has had for the region that I'm from, and see what opportunities it offers for other regions in this country, which can experience the same. And then the matter is delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e666	The opinion of the Committee is available, so that it will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e669	I think the committee can say that the matter is well delivered too, because it is a unanimous vote that is very good. Especially in the light of a number of other climate and oil policy debates that have been held in the last few years, it is alarming that there is largely unanimity all the way, at least on the part of the government parties. It's a big day. We mark the extension and increased extraction rate of the first commercial oil and gas found in Norway. There are 40 years of oil activities we celebrate, and there are prospects for another 40 years ahead just in this field. That's good. The Ecofisk field laid the foundations of the Norwegian oil adventure, which has become the foundation of the income side of our welfare society. It has been the driving force behind social development in many ways. Where one has previously called for Norway's Nokia, the oil industry is most of what was Nokia's driving force, and as we would like to say today, Norway's Apple. The project we are now adopting increases the recovery rate in Ekofisk by 2.5 pst. and on Firefish with 6.5 pst. There are formidable numbers, both in percentage and – not least – in relation to the values they represent. The upgrade totals 64 billion. kr, and the investment shall take place within four years. It's huge amounts, not only really, but also relatively, even in Norway. It says a little bit about how big ring effects and how many jobs it generates, when you get 64 billion. kr in investments. Just in relation to the amounts in the financial crisis package, which was supposed to save the capitalist system, this is twice as much investment as the government thought was necessary. There's also a point in this context that this huge investment promise happens without anyone starting to talk about the rule of action. But if we had started talking about an investment of $64 billion. NOK in Norwegian infrastructure in four years, I think the rule of action had been brought forward quite quickly. We will take this as a positive sign of how important we realize that oil and gas industries are in Norway, and then we can take the debate on the rules of action later on. Today's case shows how important it is to have a large, dynamic oil cluster that further develops technology and concept. It is important, because someone in this room – and outside this hall – thinks that we can gradually build down this industry without having implications for our technological ability to increase extraction rates and have good revenues. One of the government parties promised last year that the oil notification would be a closure message. The previous spokesman for SV said that a youth should be managed away from petroleum-oriented education, and today’s spokesman for SV says that engineers should be used for better things than the petroleum industry in the future. It destroys the basis for making such joyous decisions that we are actually making today. It should take over. An Ekofisc extension and an Ekofisc extension are possible because we have strong clusters, use wise heads and have high activity, which enables strong research and development of new technologies. The OAM report showed the potential if we're doing this right. Ecophonic should be an inspiration for us to follow the recommendations of the Åm Committee. It should stimulate increased public contributions to petroleum-related research, for the so-called expenditure, which is actually investment, is what we are now harvesting. And hopefully it's not the last time the Storting makes decisions that will increase the extraction rate in Ekofisk. I hope it will happen several times, because it is made possible by new technology. Then power from land is a topic that is being discussed. It is also where one likes to have the greatest disagreement within the committee, even though there is a significant majority behind what we are now adopting. It is good that you have assessed it, it makes sense. But I'm also glad it's not prescribed. One refers to sky-high costs. I take that with me when a later one will also discuss the climate with demands for electrification, as the representative Serigstad Valen from SV stressed in his discussion article on green certificates in the previous case. It is good when the hour of responsibility comes, that the parties are moderated, take responsibility and ensure that one has a diet-benefit assessment at the bottom and not just holds the symbolic positions of one in climate policy. It is also good to see that SV supports oil and gas activities in Ecofisque, Firefish, Knarr and Valemon, when one knows that the product that a pumper up there actually generates CO2 emissions, and when one in all other debates in the election campaign claims that oil and gas activities in Lofoten, the Western Sea and the Barents Sea will create too much CO2 emissions globally. So it's obviously nice CO2 that you're going to extract from Ecofisc and Firefish. It should be a tribute to those who work out there, that they actually do this in such an environmentally friendly way that all the parties on the Stortinget think that the oil and the gas from there are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e697	Ecofiically, the first commercial oil and gas discovery in Norway formed the recording of what could be described in many ways as the Norwegian oil and gas adventure. This field has already produced large values for the license as well as for the Norwegian community, and with the further expansion of the Ecofisc and Firefish II, which is now being treated, it facilitates new production for a further 40 years. This is impressive, and with an investment framework of approx. 64 B.C.E. This represents important deliveries for many supply companies linked to Norwegian oil and gas production. It is particularly pleasant that the matter is dealt with in Stortinget on the same date as the Ecofisk celebrates its 40th anniversary for start-up. The right is committed to exploiting the resource potential on the Norwegian base. We know that the energy demand in the future is high and increasing. A key prerequisite for combating poverty is to give energy to larger parts of the world. Norway is a significant energy supplier, and the Right wants us to further develop this role and take the benefits of increased value creation, jobs and income to society. We have been operating oil and gas extraction for 40 years on a Norwegian base, and parts of the base have gradually become matured areas. This implies an even greater focus on increased use of resources in existing fields. With all the plans that already exist, we can expect to achieve an extraction rate of about 46 pst. According to the oil directorate's calculations, we only want 1 pst. increased extraction rate earn 270 billion kr gross if we base an oil price of $70. This says something about the great potential of focusing on increased extraction rates. The development and operation of the Ecofis and Firefish II are just such an example of investments leading to an increase in the rate of exploitation and an extension of the life of a field, and the Right supports this expansion. These two projects will increase the extraction rate of oil by 2,5 pst. from Ekofisk and 6,5 pst. from Firefish. This implies an increase in extraction of approximately 470 million barrels of oil equivalent and provides a potential for operation of both fields towards 2050. Anyone who has tried to sketch the fact that the oil and gas industry is a sunset industry should note that one here facilitates 40 years of new production. There are not many industrial companies that can have the same horizon for their operations in the future. It is important that authorities facilitate an increased commitment to projects for enhanced extraction rates. The government reduced the so-called Åm Committee, which made its report for some time and proposed a number of measures for increased resource use in existing fields. Seven years have passed since the Stortinget was last presented with a petroleum message. From the Right, we have been calling for a new petroleum message from the government for many years, and taking the signals from the Minister of Oil and Energy that this will now be available before the summer. We look forward to that. I hope that the government here, among others. will make interventions that stimulate increased use of resources in existing fields visible, especially since, for some of the fields, the use of measures is quite time-critical. The climate challenge is among the main challenges we face. It is good that the production on Norwegian soil is climate friendly in the sense that the climate emissions per unit produced are among the best in the world. At the same time, the CO2 tax on the socket has probably contributed to the implementation of a number of good measures. The increased power demand for Ecofisc South and Firefish II is estimated to 8,8 MW and will be fully covered by existing power generation in the Ecofisc field. Although power from land has been assessed and is currently estimated to have an excessive cost level, it is positive that rightholders will provide a review of the possibilities for electrification by 1 June 2012. Such an assessment may also include the power needs of a potential third party in the area, in order to reduce the cost of action on land-based power. Norway is facing major challenges in cutting national greenhouse gas emissions and, to the extent that rightholders find electrification of platforms profitable, this could make an important contribution to national emission reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e721	I note that the representative Solvik-Olsen continues to relate to his own imaginary SV and not to what the party actually says and believes, and I therefore also overlook most of the polemics from that edge. Ecophonic is, among other things, the story of values – and this should also be noted by the Progress Party as they now focus on their own technology development and development of their own competences and strong national ownership of valuable resources. The way Norway chose to adjust its petroleum policy has ensured that very large oil and gas values have benefited the community. It's not obvious. For, despite what one might think, there is no global correlation between the petroleum deposits of a country and national prosperity, good social arrangements and security. On the contrary, very many countries have not been able to convert their oil values into joy for the population, and many oil nations are characterised by corruption and great social differences. In many cases, most of the values go out of the country. This has never been the case in Norway, and it is among other things. because we have had a strong work movement and visionary politicians who saw the importance of clear national control of resources. Ekofisk is a very important part of this picture. It wouldn't have looked like that if the Progress Party had decided. In a world where, over my lifetime, we depend on cutting our global dependence on fossil energy sources, it is important to prioritise just to the extent that new investments are made on a Norwegian base. So the Progress Party would like to claim that SV will close the socket overnight, but I feel that discussion is over. This is one of the reasons why, throughout the debate on opening up the highly vulnerable areas of Northern Ireland VI and VII and Troms II, we underlined the need not to open new areas in the most vulnerable areas we have, but to ensure, on the contrary, an increase in the rate of extraction in existing areas. And I'm very happy that there's a consensus on that. Ecophysics have long demonstrated the potential to do so and have already exceeded the planned extraction rate by 35 percentage points. It's very much, and it increases further with this treatment. There are also negative aspects to this expansion – I have to be honest with you and say that. The petroleum sector must be responsible for significant emissions reductions in Norway if we are to have any opportunity to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. In Klimakur, Southern North Seas are considered to be the best potential for area electricification, often at a price of less than DKK 1500 per tonne. The builder has calculated himself to be much higher than this in the investigations of this PUD. It is a pity, and there is reason to stress that if the petroleum sector does not gradually take its part in the responsibility of climate policy, greater burden will be placed on our clean and land-based industry. I don't think that's desirable from any parties, but it requires after every action. Therefore, it is very important that there is room for electrification of the field in this case, and there is reason to have great expectations for the new assessments of electrification to be submitted next year. It's only when Ekofisk electrifies, that we can really say that we pay homage to Trygve Bratteli's words at the opening of the Ekofisk, because it's only when we honour not only to choose the shortest and cheapest way, but on the contrary to fight through new advances that benefit people, environment and operations, and not least workers' safety, which is also an important aspect of the debate on electrification. Hearing the Progress Party acknowledges the importance of Ecofisk for the welfare state gives reason to recall what Norway would miss if the Progress Party had steered the oil policy. There's something a little reluctant Carl I. Hagen has already admitted, and it surprises me that the party's current spokesman can't do the same thing. To the extent that the CO2 emissions from Ecofiche are good-looking CO2 emissions, it is probably primarily thanks to all batches other than the Progress Party, which have never been particularly concerned with strict environmental requirements, and at least not with fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e744	Ekofisk is the oldest field complex in operation on Norwegian base. It has been in operation since 1971 and has been described as a symbol of the Norwegian oil adventure. Nor does it happen that the national antiquities product defines Ecofisc as a cultural memory of national value, and characterises the installations in the Ecofisc area as ‘some of the largest and most complex cultural memories of our time’. The Riksantikvarn has underlined their importance as an important symbol of the development of modern Norway, and he is right in that. We are also reminded of the challenges we face on the cultural memory front in the future by taking care of increasingly large installations, but we will come back to that and discuss it tomorrow when we talk about cultural memory policy. Ecofisc has been in operation for 40 years, and with the approval of the Ecofiscian Southern PUD and Firefiscian II, it is well-placed to allow it to operate for 40 new years. It is a good central party policy to use resources in existing fields. Increased extraction rates in existing fields are important. There is no doubt that Ekofisk has provided enormous resources for Norwegian society. Since the opening in 1971, fields have produced 5.4 billion oil equivalents to a value of 1791 billion. kr, in 2010-krona. It's a fainting sum. Ecofisc South and Firefish II both increase extraction rates in existing fields and increase revenue to the country. The project is large, it will have value-added effects, and it is important for the Norwegian supplier industry. At the same time, greenhouse gas emissions in the petroleum sector are also high. A joint committee has pointed out that climate change is one of the most serious challenges facing us today. Climate reconciliation is the responsibility of its leaders. The Committee points out that electrification is a targeted measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian oil and gas industries. The assessments of which fields to electrify shall be based on dietary/benefit assessments, and it must be seen in the context of access to power from land. I note, therefore, that there is room for the area to receive power from countries in the future, and there is a lot of evidence that this could be a good idea. I look forward to the reassessment of the power from countries to which the rightholders are due to submit to the Ministry by 1 June 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e759	It is a historic suspense of the decision the Stortinget is going to take today. The Norwegian oil adventure began exactly 40 years ago in the Ekofisk field. The Ekofisk field was opened on June 9, 1971. Ekofisk is the oldest field complex in operation on a Norwegian base, and today we are making provision for 40 years of further operation. 40 years is long. It is as long as this representative has lived. As long as I have lived, this country has been operating with oil and gas production. So today, the Storting approves a plan for the development and operation of the Ecofiche South and Firefish II. The fields have been in production since 1971 and 1979 respectively. The projects we are dealing with today are thus a further development of the field of production. These two projects will increase the extraction rate of oil from the Ecofisc field and the Firefish field by 2,5 and 6,5 pst respectively. In total, field extraction will increase by about 470 million barrels of oil. The expansion will lead to investments of 27.3 billion. kr for Ekofisk south and 36,6 brd. kr for Firefish II. No one needs to wonder whether this will create activity in the supplier industry and have a significant impact on employment and value creation. It will with such large investments, and that's good. In economic terms, Norway is a country flowing from milk and honey. The oil adventure that we have experienced since the Ecofisk field was discovered in the 1960s has made Norway what is called the world’s richest country. The eco-fiction field is with its oil and gas resources among the hundreds of major fields in the world. Even after more than 30 years of production, the Ekofisk field has the most oil left to produce on a Norwegian base. It looks like the word of the font is also going to apply here: the first one is going to be the last one. The extraction rate from the field, measured in barrels of oil equivalents, has increased over 30 years from 21 to 46 pst. Today, we are further increasing the extraction rate for the Ekofi South to 52 pst. In many ways, Ecofisc stands as the very expression of how technological development and targeted efforts by operators and authorities have contributed to increasing resource use. But there is a snake in paradise! Also in this case, on this historic day, there's a snake, and I want to talk a little bit about it. Over the period 1990 to 2007, the emissions from the petroleum activity have increased by 92 pst. Projections show that the emissions from the petroleum activity as the only sector will continue to grow towards 2020. The only way to avoid these emissions is by using power from land. The operator has assessed different solutions for power from land to Ekofisk, as well as the modification of existing installations. The operator estimates the action costs of power from land to the Ekofisk area to NOK 3585 per tonne of CO2 over a lifetime up to 2049. A partial electrification of only 30 MW has been taken into account. The Oil Directorate has produced its own cost estimates for electrification, which are lower than the estimated cost estimate of the operator, with a cost estimate of DKK 1878 per tonne of CO2 equivalent. In its assessment, the Oil Directorate points out that there will be an increase in the power demand in the area beyond 2016, when current power turbines reach their lifetime limit and also new consumers. This suggests that we should electrify more today rather than do it tomorrow. Climate change shows that Southern North Sea is the area with the lowest cost of electrification, and that electrification must be one of the measures we have to take when it has a cost of less than NOK 1500. I fear that the consequences of not electrifying the entire Ekofisk area will be that we have to take tougher roofs in other areas, and that will be very demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e784	The left is satisfied with the decision taken in this case, with one exception, and I will come back to that. We are pleased because it creates value for the future, creates jobs on land, it still ensures valuable competence in Norwegian oil industry, and that makes us more of the potential we have in Norwegian oil reserves. However, this issue also shows that the debate on the Lofoten and the West Pole is really about crumbs in the broad context. After 40 years of operation in the Ecofisc field, the remaining extractable quantities of oil in the Ecofisc area are higher than the estimates of oil in the whole of the Lofoten and the Western Sea. This case not only demonstrates the importance of the Åm Committee's report to the government, it also shows that oil industry is ahead of larger and much more important tasks than access to new, vulnerable areas. As I said, the Left is satisfied with today's decision. But there is a problem that unfortunately has not been addressed sufficiently in the setting, and that left therefore seems to have to be addressed. The Ekofisk field today releases almost 2 pst. of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Norway alone, and this Decision extends its lifetime to close to 2050. In 2050, the Prime Minister himself has stated to the Evening Post on 10 April 2010, Norway must cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 80 pst. The left probably believes that we have to go even further than that, but the truth is that today's decision, which locks up large emissions until 2050, is completely incompatible with a sustainable climate policy and the Prime Minister's own objectives. If you do not electrify this field by such a large conversion, I am quite convinced that it will never be electrified. And if this field is not electrified, which is so large and has so much greenhouse gas emissions for so long, I do not see how we are going to manage to reduce emissions from existing installations at all. The fact that the majority of people do not see this paradox must indicate that they are blinded to the realities of a good climate policy. It is a pity, because it now seems quite clear to the Left that, with the support of parts of the opposition, the government undermines any possibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in general and on the base in particular. We in the Left cannot take that on, and I take this up with me the proposal that is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e795	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e799	Not only did we have a very good case instead. Now there are three things in a row and a row about expanding on a Norwegian pedestal. In total, the Storting shall adopt investments today of between 90 and 100 billion. kr. It's really a brand day. It is also exactly 40 years since the then Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli opened the production in the Ekofisk field. Then he said, «This day may be a brand day in our economic history.» I don't think we should just give Trygve Bratteli right in it; it must also in retrospect be said to be an understatement. There are few things that have changed Norway so much in as short a time as the phase-in of our petroleum resources. After several failed wells at the end of the 1960s, most began to lose faith in the existence of extractable oil and gas resources on a Norwegian base. This was the background when Phillips Petroleum started drilling a new well in block 2/4 on September 18, 1969. Just this well resulted in the discovery of the Ekofisk field, which in many ways marks the beginning of the Norwegian oil adventure. On December 23rd was found a fact, and in retrospect one must say that one could take Christmas with a good conscience. When the field started producing, the planned extraction rate from Ekofisk was 17 pst. Today, the planned extraction rate is 52 pst. The field has been in operation for 40 years. It has produced values for incredible $1,800 billion. kr, and today new plans and investments of over 65 billion must be made. safe operation for a new 40 years. However, 47,5 pst will still be. the resources are left after 80 years of operation. It must be a challenge for the future. This is a gigantic industrial project in which the total investment is estimated at about 65 billion. kr – one of our biggest industrial projects ever. It is clear that this will contribute strongly to maintaining the level of activity and employment of the supplier industry. The development plans facilitate a significant increase in the efficiency of the Ecofisc and Firefish fields. The increase in extraction rates in the two fields resulting from these projects is equivalent to over 470 million barrels of oil equivalent. With today's oil price and exchange rate, it has a value of almost 300 billion. kr. This shows that there are large values created by increasing the extraction rate of existing fields. The development of Ecofisc and Firefish II will make an important contribution to the total production and level of activity on Norwegian pedestal. Several contracts have already been awarded to Norwegian industry as a result of these projects, and new facilities in these areas also allow the extension of other fields and findings in the area. 40 years of petroleum activity has shown us that it is possible to reconcile oil and gas production with environmental considerations, and these projects have been good environmental solutions. The power demand for these projects is marginal and will be covered by existing power generation capacity in the two fields. In addition, a cable will be installed between the Ekofisk field and the Firefisk force exchange field. This will ensure energy-efficient utilisation of turbine capacity and better regularity. There has also been an assessment of the power from land to the Ekofisk area in relation to these projects. Preliminary calculations by both companies and authorities show that the measures are inappropriate and that the cost of measures far exceeds the current level of the sum of the CO2 tax and the quota price. However, it is proposed as a condition for a reassessment of force from countries in 2012 when the power needs of fields in the Ecofisk area and third-party fields are more clearly identified. There is room on the new platform in the Ecofisk field so that it can take effect from land at a later stage. In that case, there will be many terrrawatt hours in an overall power demand. I would like to point out that a prerequisite for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not that we just get the power from countries but that that power is being produced in a renewable and environmentally friendly way. This year we have imported 1 of 7 kilowatt-hours, and if the result is that there is coal power from Denmark that is going to run Ekofisk, it is not obvious that the climate gain is the same. It is important to increase extraction from existing fields and projects which are essential to maintain production and are important to ensure employment in the supply industry. As a result of this project, the extraction rate from the Ekofisk field is increased by 2,5 pst. If all Norwegian oil fields increase the extraction rate accordingly, this would result in values above 1000 billion. kr with the current oil price and exchange rate. These are enormous values that we have to ensure for the community. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has endorsed the government's proposal on the development and operation of the Ecofisc and Firefish II.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e839	Yes, it is that emissions from the petroleum sector are increasing, and we are also looking at the projections that they will increase. Therefore, it is important that we manage to get electrification. It is designed to electrify the Ecofisc, and that is good. It is also true that this part of Norway that we are now talking about, where power could be sent from land, has a surplus of power. But what surprises me, and on which I will challenge the Council of State, is this reassessment of power from countries to come in 2012. From Stortinget's pulpit today and also in the vote, it is said that it is expected in June 2012 and that it can be seen in the context of the climate communication. But what I need to clarify is whether it is the case that the climate communication does not come until 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e846	The climate communication is not my constitutional responsibility, so I will be very careful to guarantee Stortinget when it had to show up. But I sincerely hope that it will be ready for treatment in good time before June 2012. But, as I said, it's just not my field. So is it that we already have electrified parts of Norwegian socket. I think it's important, also from this pulpit, to be clear and clear that we've been ambitious in that field. The gear is electrified, the Worm Lange is electrified, the Troll field will take new power from land, and one of the experiences you can say that you have harvested from the oil industry's need for power from land is that at least you have to work with the regional power balances, so you don't get the kind of situation that Mid-Norway was thrown into, as a result of the Worm Lange project.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e853	As I said in my post, the Prime Minister says that 80 pst. of Norway’s CO2 cut must subsequently be taken home. Ekofik releases 2 pst., as others have said. That equals 300,000 cars, and that equals the same thing as the entire Oslo actually emits. How does the Council of State see that we can achieve the goal of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e863	I am absolutely sure that the solution to the climate problem of the future is not to stop producing oil and gas on a Norwegian base. The world needs more energy. We need more energy to draw hundreds – billions – of people out of poverty. There are 1.3 billion people in the world who do not have access to electric light. I also think it is completely pointless to discuss the climate challenges isolated from the poverty and energy challenges facing the world. Norway is a major exporter of energy, and I think we have a great responsibility to manage our resources efficiently and in a good way, and produce goods, energy, for which the world is in great need. We've shown over the last 40 years that we're actually the best at this. We do it with at least CO2 emissions per unit of output, with fewer emissions to the external environment, and I feel absolutely sure that we will continue to, and push the industry further, so that we can look back in 40 years and say exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e873	In its contribution, the Council of State spent some time focusing on this with increased resource use and the opportunities available both for technological development and for increased income to society — and increased activity in the supply industry. On the right, we have defined the challenge of increased resource use as one of three main challenges for Norwegian oil and gas activities. My question to the Council of State is: What is the government's main action in the future to increase resource use within existing fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e880	Increased utilisation rates are extremely important for many reasons. Meling himself was in the middle of most of them. The theme will be widely discussed in the petroleum message. However, I think it is difficult to point out one measure that we are going to take to increase the extraction rate. I think that would be the sum of the overall framework conditions that determine whether we succeed or not. If you had pointed out one of the important drivers, it is obvious that a high oil and gas price will give you a powerful incentive to make better use of the resources, but I will also point to the diversity of the Norwegian base. I would like to point out the need for research and development. I would like to point out that we have an internationally competitive offshore industry that delivers both in Norway and internationally. The sum of this I feel sure will make us succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e885	Now the summer is very soon before the door. In a dry week the Storting splits, and the Council of State has previously said that the government will present a petroleum message before the summer. I hope the Council of State can confirm that this petroleum message is now actually coming before summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e890	It is the way in the world that nothing is clear until everything is clear, but also I hope that the petroleum message, as previously communicated, will be submitted before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e896	I did not feel that the Council of State answered my question, so I try again: How does the Council of State see that we can reach the Prime Minister's goal of taking the cuts here at home? What tools will be used when you do not electrify now — using it in Ecofisc, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e901	First of all, as I was in the previous line change, we electrify parts of Norwegian oil and gas activities, and there are large projects for the door that will mean further electrification and further need for power from land. The main instruments for the climate, for the petroleum activity, are not only the allowances, but also the CO2 tax. Incentives are much stronger to the oil and gas industry than to all other industries. It has also made it possible to implement a large number of measures in Norway that have not been implemented elsewhere. Then I tried to answer that way that the way we have to achieve the goal is through all the large and small measures to ensure that Norwegian oil and gas industries are constantly at the forefront in terms of efficiency, resource use and technology development. Power from land, electrification, I feel secure can be one of those answers, but I don't think, with respect to reporting, that it represents the whole answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e913	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e918	We are making an important decision today in Stortinget. It is also a historic decision. The eco-fiction field has been producing for 40 years – found in 1969 – and it is remarkable how much and how well it has been produced for the benefit of the community on this important oil field for us. When found Ecofiically, most thought that it could make Norway self-sufficient in oil for 15–20 years. That's really what went on in the headlines at the time. It has now been shown that this field has much more in it. But it has also shown another important thing that I think it's worth noting, that in 1974 it was calculated with an extraction rate in the field of 17 pst. Today, the extraction rate is 52 pst. That's remarkable. It just shows how important this field has been, and how important it has been that it has been allowed to develop technologically, so that we can actually take up more of the resources lying on the seabed, and that has been done in an excellent way. Industry has also been developed to become a forward-looking export industry, thanks to the research and development that has taken place in this area. This is in many ways a monument to successful Norwegian oil and gas policy, as it has now become apparent that we have been able to interact here with both licensing policy, production policy, research policy and technological development. This has very large historical perspectives in it, it has forward-looking perspectives in it, and it has also confirmed that this is not a sunset industry, as some claim. It is a forward-looking industry that provides very valuable jobs and has shown how important these jobs are for the extraction of our important natural resources. When we look at the regions of Rogaland, the North-Jearth, where this enterprise has continued and evolved, is a unique example of future construction locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e929	I would like to say that it was wise words from previous speakers that a wide-ranging magnificence supports. I was a little surprised at the frequent attack by the representative Serigstad Valen on the Progress Party in his main post. I feel that I met some sore toes in the description of those who do not want to develop the oil industry so much, but the facts should not come into the shade for that reason when he wants to defend himself. It's a little strange in some debates to shut up because the Progress Party wants too much oil in Norway, while in other debates – which are now – we get fucked up because our policy would not have led to the oil adventure that we have. Let me stress that the Advance Party will strengthen the clusters to make it more attractive and possible for Norwegian environments to extract oil and gas, not just in Norway, but in the world. We want the state to be involved in contributing to technology development. We want to ensure competence and recruitment, not like SV, which says we're going to use the wise heads anywhere else. We want to strengthen Norway's environment around the oil and gas industry. We believe that national ownership is also important. But it does not exclude foreign interests. When the representative Serigstad Valen refers to the Ekofisk field as proof of the importance of national ownership, I have to ask: Has the representative Serigstad Valen considered who are rightholders? So Petoro and Statoil only have one-eightth of the total rights here. The rest are non-resident corporations. So Ekofisk is at least not a proof of the argument that Serigstad Valen is trying to use against us, rather a hopeless drag. That doesn't mean I want to have as many foreign actors as possible. I believe that the Norwegian environment should be good, but we also benefit from the fact that foreign companies join us and challenge us and share their skills with us. Finally, the representative Serigstad Valen tried to admit that Carl I. Hagen admitted that our approach was wrong, and that it would have made us not to be left with one penny in oil wealth. That's not what Carl I. Hagen picked up. The thing was that Statoil in 1976, when Statfjord was to be adopted, had a large share as a rightholder. A country that then had significant deficits and government debt, so that the debate Hagen tried to travel, was: Is it reasonable that Norwegian taxpayers should take the risk with debt financing of oil projects? I now see that SV thought it was so important that Norway contributed to the development of the oil, that we should take that risk. We were a little bit more uncertain, but it turns out in the light of history that the risk was well worth taking, and Hagen has said that he learned from. There is so much money in the oil and gas industry that we can take the risk. But that doesn't mean that in that context we said we shouldn't tax whether it was foreign capital instead of Norwegian capital. I don't think we said that Petoro's share, or the present share, would be reduced. I don't think we said we should give away the licenses; they should be sold. It's not like you said zero dollars to the state, but you said, "Should you take the risk on behalf of the taxpayers?" There, Carl I. Hagen was wrong, and he's happy about that, and we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e960	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e969	The matter we now have to deal with is a plan for the development and operation of the Valemon field. It is a gas and condensate field located in the northern part of the North Sea, between the White Bear and the South of Gullfak, and shall be operated by Statoil. This is an important development in which existing infrastructure in the area will be widely used. This means that, in addition to the output of Valemon, profitability can be obtained in other smaller areas, as the lifetime of the Heimdal platform is extended. That's good, because we're in a phase in the North Sea now that it's important to realize less findings before the heavy infrastructure disappears. The expansion solution chosen for Valemon is an unmanned platform to be controlled from White Bear. The platform will have facilities for partial gas processing. The Rikgasen can be exported via Heimdal to either the United Kingdom or the continent. The condensate will be sent to White Bear and then to Mongstad. This is an expansion of a certain size, and there are expected to be significant ring-effects in the phase of expansion. Investments have been estimated at nearly 20 billion. kr. It can create an estimated 30,000 annual works in Norway during the development phase, and it is significant. I think it's worth noting that an overall committee assumes that this is going to create activity locally. The demand for local ring effects is always central when discussing new developments, and much of the success story of the petroleum industry in this country is linked to the success of building up a separate supplier industry and involving local businesses. It has been a good thing both for the petroleum industry and for the country that, as a rule, good dialogue has been established on how to ensure that the value creation of the keel water of an expansion benefits local business. Therefore, it should also be noted that the Committee points out that Valemon is outside Sogn and Fjordane, which is a state which, in relation to the large resources located off the coast there, has so far received relatively small counting in terms of employment and value creation. When the Committee considers it important to further develop the operational and base environment in Florø, it is a clear signal to both Statoil and other companies operating in the area. But Valemon will make an important contribution to Norwegian gas exports. New contracts will be awarded to the supplier industry, rural ring-fences and significant financial contributions to the state of Norway – and that is good. There is an overall committee which, through the suspension, expresses support for the development plans available to Valemon.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e988	The Progress Party shall support the expansion plan for the Valemon gas and condensate field and its associated pipelines, as promoted by the operator Statoil Petroleum AS on behalf of the rightholders. Large investments are linked to expansion, estimated at 19.6 billion. kr, and can generate an estimated 30,000 annual works in Norway during the development period. As in the past, the Progress Party assumes that the operator will focus in this context on local ring effects, not least in the light of the estimated post-tax present value of 3,4 billion. kr. The Progress Party has also noted a potential conflict with fisheries interests, especially during the deployment phase, and will stress the importance of the operator establishing a close dialogue with authorities and organisations in order to seek to minimise this conflict during this very important period. There is an important signal effect in such conflict resolution and should minimise any problems. As mentioned, there are expectations that the petroleum activity will produce ring-effects locally and regionally. Valemon is located outside Sogn and Fjordane, a state that, in relation to the large off-shore resources, has so far received relatively small counting in terms of employment and value added. For this reason, an overall committee considers it to be inter alia: it is important that the operational and base environment of Florø be further developed and that the scope of competence and functionality, including personnel transport, is ensured. This will be in favour of the region, but probably also in relation to the needs of Statoil and after each other company has and is expected to get in the area. One might then wonder a little bit about that government in Prop. 85 S for 2010–2011, Development and operation of Valemon, has made no recommendations for localisation of purchases of products and services. However, the Progress Party would point out that it would often be natural and appropriate for a rightholder to purchase products and services in the immediate environment in relation to the location of the development. After all, it is the county of central party leader Liv Signe Navarsete that the Council of State must also listen to. But that, of course, assumes that the center party leader has a meaning – or a wish! And the supplier network, which is also mentioned, is a national and regionally important network. But this is good. It contributes to value creation, and it also contributes greatly to the state pension fund abroad. This case also shows how meaningless it can be with a general electrification idea of the socket. The cost here is unreasonable, but fortunately you choose to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1003	The right provides its connection to the Valemon development plans. Like Knarr, which we are going to deal with in the next case, Valemon is a smaller field in a mature area of Norwegian base. The reserves are estimated at 206 million. fat oil equivalents. In a phase where the great findings are already made and developed, at least in the more mature areas of the base, this is the kind of expansion we want to see most of the future: small findings in mature areas. It's time-critical that these types of findings are being developed now. Since the fields are small, they often do not themselves defend investment in new infrastructure but depend on using transport pipelines and platforms for the larger areas of the area. Valemon is a good example of this, using existing infrastructure on White Bear, Huldra and Heimdal. In mature areas, infrastructure is well developed in many places. But since we are approaching the end of production for many of the largest areas of Norwegian soil, the lifetime of the existing infrastructure is limited. It is therefore important to identify and extract the resources in the area before shutting down the infrastructure. If it is not feasible, valuable resources can remain because the findings are too small to defend their own infrastructure development. On the other hand, the development of new, smaller findings often means that the production of existing fields can be extended. The Ministry points out in its proposal that exports of natural gas from Valemon via Heimdal will contribute to the extension of the operation of Heimdal, thus maintaining the total capacity of the gas transport system. So it's a relationship of interdependence. The extended service life of Heimdal facilitates the extended operation of existing fields and the phase-in of new fields in the area. Without obligations from new fields, Heimdal probably had to close down in 2014. If Heimdal does not have a longer life span, this would have consequences for fields that currently exploit the devices, as well as findings that assess Heimdal as an access point. In a phase of Norwegian petroleum history where the largest findings have already been made, and the production of the large fields on the base is approaching the end, it is important that, in addition to opening up new areas for the petroleum activity, we make it possible to make the best possible use of the remaining resources in mature areas of the base. Norwegian oil production peaked in 2001 and has since fallen significantly. Increasing gas production has led to an increase in total petroleum production, but from 2015 it is expected that our total oil and gas production will decrease. Oil and gas are non-renewable resources, and sooner or later production on the Norwegian base will fall. However, it is possible and appropriate to see Norwegian oil and gas production in a multi-generation perspective, where we can extend activities and value creation through increased extraction of existing fields, the exploitation of existing infrastructure and open new exploration areas so that new reserves can be identified. It is an important objective of the Right that Norway maintains a sustainable level of petroleum activity for as long as possible. It is important to avoid the confusion of the technological expertise required for the future development of the activities on the Norwegian continental shelf. There are still large reserves in the oil and gas fields in operation. The Oil Directorate has established that there are still 37 psts. of the total resources on the socket remaining identified extractable resources. The continuous development of technology since the initial oil and gas reserves were identified has resulted in a significantly longer life span and significantly more oil and gas have been extracted from today’s field than originally assumed. The continued development of technology and high oil and gas prices are prerequisites for the extraction of both current accounting reserves and reserves. A number of the large fields are approaching closure. Therefore, measures for increased extraction are urgently needed. Alternatively, we're at risk of large values remaining in the ground. Therefore, the development of smaller fields like Valemon is important, and I am pleased that the Stortinget today adopts plans for the expansion and operation of Valemon.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1026	The expansion of Valemon is referred to as small, but it's relative sizes. Compared with the size of the previous case, most of the activity on Norwegian pedestal appears to be small. But it's a pretty significant extension and also represents the potential extension of the lifetime of other installations. As has been said before, the extractable reserves represent an estimated 206 million barrels of oil equivalent, and the investment is nearly 20 billion. kr – only in oil and energy debates, possibly with the exception of defence debates, are small and medium-sized projects. We support this development because it can contribute to better use of resources on a Norwegian base, and it is taking place in a mature area. That's why I only have a few short notes. We have noticed in the committee that the expansion results in an increase in emissions of less than 100 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. It may not sound so much considering that we often talk about millions of times in our committee, but it thus represents a notable increase in the sector's emissions. I notice that the Christian People's Party points out in the form of a note that this increase must be covered elsewhere. I'll take that as a matter of course. It's on the ground. I would just like to emphasise here SV's support for sectoral climate objectives, which I was also concerned with in the previous case. The second is that it appears that development could lead to conflict with other industries, namely fish. One thing is the trawling industry, but we also have to be sure that this does not affect the fishing for herring and mackerel, as it also shows in the presented. I think it's worth mentioning this specifically. Finally, I join the rapporteur's statement, including the signals we give regarding Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1044	The Valemon extension is well described first by the case spokesman and then by others, so I'm not going to repeat descriptive sentences here now, but just make a few comments related to what has been reported in the comments from the committee. It underlines something important for the Centre Party, namely the regional ringing effects. In this case, Florø is particularly well known – or Sogn and Fjordane – from the location of Valemon. Of course, I am pleased that a joint committee points to this. I can replicate to the Progress Party that I'm glad they've also noticed the commitment we have in the Center Party to the fact that the petroleum industry is just going to give this kind of positive ringing effect to the bases along the coast. It is important that we, as regulators, give a clear signal and have objectives in relation to petroleum production. This industry should be involved in building the country, as the Council of State is good at pointing out at many times. The active use of coastal bases also provides proximity to the fields, which are important for health, the environment and safety. An example is the transport of personnel. One of the main conclusions of the Norne accident is that one must aim to reduce the exposure time of the crew on the road to and from the fields. Of course, transport to regular operations and transport to the maintenance and modification of fields takes place for limited periods. So, in our view, there has to be a measure that the closest heliport bases are being used just from a thought of HMS. This can be an opportunity to put leadership on – it is possible through plans for expansion and operation – in this house or at government level.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1053	I am pleased that the Committee shares the view that Valemon is a proper and important development, both in terms of the best possible use of resources and also in terms of investments already made in the area. ‘White bear king Valemon’ is a Norwegian folk adventure collected by Asbjørnsen and Moe. The adventure is about King Valemon who had been transformed into a polar bear by an evil witch. The curse meant that he had to walk around like polar bears a day, while he looked like a human at night. If no one could see him as a human in seven years, the curse would cease. It is now seven years since White Bear was put into production. Now it's Valemon's turn to get to the light. Valemon was found as early as 1985, and the rightholders have worked for a long time on the development. The expansion of Valemon shows the value of the technology development and knowledge building that has taken place in the Norwegian petroleum industry. I am committed to facilitating that it will also be able to continue into the future. Valemon is a gas and condensate field. The extractable reserves are estimated to be 206 million barrels of oil equivalent, making Valemon slightly larger than the Goliath field. It is therefore not, in my opinion, a very small investment. The total investment has also been estimated at nearly 20 billion. kr. The expansion of Valemon will involve a new facility suitable for the development of the resources in the Tampen area. The project also contributes to the extension of the lifetime of the Heimdal platform. Around Heimdal we find a number of findings and prospectuses that there are no plans to expand. The development of Valemon can now make these projects profitable and feasible. The development of Valemon will generate large revenues for society and will also help to maintain the level of activity and employment in the supply industry. This is essential for the preservation and development of knowledge and technology in the petroleum-related industry. The consideration of industry employment is also an important argument for a uniform and predictable level of activity. Valemon is a significant project that will make important contributions to the total production and level of activity on Norwegian pedestal. The development has already awarded contracts to Grenland Group and Aibel, of course subject to the plan being approved. Not many projects in Norway represent investment of 20 billion. kr. The world will need more energy in the future. Economic growth and improvement in standard of living, population growth and increased urbanisation lead to increased energy use. The world needs not only more energy, but also cleaner energy. Fossil energy sources currently account for 80 pst. of the total energy supply and will cover most of the growth in energy use for decades to come. Transition from carbon-intensive coal to cleaner gas in energy supply will result in large greenhouse gas reductions in many countries. Increased demand for more and cleaner energy, for oil and gas and the emphasis on energy security mean that the outlook for Norway’s oil and gas exports is good. Norway has always been a stable and predictable supplier of oil and gas. It is a competitive advantage for Norway as an energy supplier. We must do that, also for the future. Self-production of gas by EU countries is declining. They will therefore need to increase their gas imports in the coming years. Norwegian gas will help meet European gas demand and will be an attractive and valued energy source for many decades to come. That's the role that the gas from Valemon will play in the years ahead. It's time to let Valemon out in the daylight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1079	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1082	Governments see the great importance of the petroleum industry for the whole coast, and also for the country. But we also see that parts of the country, among others. Sogn and Fjordane, in many ways, dot between themselves in this context, and have not been divided into the economic development we see in other regions and counties, just as participants in the petroleum industry. We look further in the Lofoten and Vesteråln similar features to what we see in Sogn and Fjordane, with demography going wrong, etc. Does not the Council of State have clear indications that one should skip to such activity, under given environmental conditions, in those parts of the country where this activity has not been given part of the value creation and economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1089	Now we're dealing with the expansion of Valemon, and I'm a little unsure whether the question really was whether we should open up for impact assessment in the Lofoten and the Vesterål. In this case, the response has been given through the Stortinge treatment of the management plan. Impact assessment will not be open to those parts of Norwegian pedestal during this large-scale period. I would also like to be told that oil and gas activities represent significant employment and value creation in Sogn and Fjordane. I am not completely wrong – and here I have to take a small reservation – I think it is approx. 1000 jobs related to oil and gas activities in Sogn and Fjordane. My government – the centre party – is very concerned that regional activity should be large, and we are going to be ambitious in facilitating the presence not only of offshore oil and gas industries, but also leading to ring-fences on land, in Sogn and Fjordane and northwards, as we hopefully do find and also develop resources in those parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1099	It seems surprising that the Council of State characterises a 1 000-person employment as a significant feeding effort in a state. The More and Romesdal neighbourhood has more than 20 000 jobs directly and indirectly linked to the petroleum industry, and it shows how important it is for regions and counties to be a natural part of such a development. As far as changes in legislation are concerned, there is now less direct control — pointing out that regions have to participate to the same extent as before. But does not the Council of State also think it clear that if one does not take out the resources off the coast and also provides opportunities for nutrient development in the vicinity, does it have a decline, both demographically, economically and in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1106	I believe that the Norwegian oil and gas industry is a great success story, even in terms of regional, local ring-effects. You can, especially in the West, drive through communities by communities that are swarming with power and strength, much because of the activity that we see off the coast. It's going to continue to facilitate this government and have strong ambitions about it. So it is that there has never been any Norwegian petroleum policy – nor have I experienced that the Progress Party has advocated such a policy – that there should have been a substantial distribution of the jobs associated with this industry. It has had to compete between suppliers. I think that has also been one of the major successes of the supplier industry, which has now made it competitive in an international market. If it is that the Progress Party is dissatisfied with the regional impact of this project, it is particularly true that in this case there are no divergent proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1115	So the line chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4608]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1133	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1142	Today, when we are dealing with a plan for the development and operation of Knarr, we are aware that this is a major and important development. Knarr is located in the northern part of the North Sea and approximately 120 km west of Florø. The expansion is expected to be 6.3 billion. kr for the expansion of Knarr central and further nearly 5 billion. kr when expanding Knarr west. The resources that can be extracted are between 10 and 25 million Sm3 oil equivalents in total by full expansion and between 8 and 16 million Sm3 oil equivalents by expanding to Knarr centrally. The field is in a fashioned area, and a collective committee points to the potential that is just in these mature areas. The Committee agrees with the stated objective of benefiting the whole country from the petroleum industry. New projects will provide regional ring-effects by contributing locally to industrial development and job creation, including: through the location of the operational organisations. The Committee considers that the operator wishes to meet these objectives. The ongoing debate on changes in petroleum law shows that, although the EEA Agreements set limits on the scope of their action by the Norwegian authorities, including in the oil and gas sectors, it is important and right to have clear objectives and expectations for the ring-fence of petroleum activity. It is also important to stress that decentralised operations within this sector and a decentralised operating and base structure provide important proximity to the offshore activity, which also has a clear security gain. The operator states that the main gravity of the expansion and operation of the Knarr field shall be from Florø and that the logistic and helicopter base will lie there. In addition, the operating unit will be located at the base of Florø and will be responsible for planning and managing the production activities themselves at the FPSO. It includes responsibilities for maintenance and modifications, procurement and logistics. The operator shall further aim at storing subsea equipment and other equipment from Florø. The Committee supports that solution. According to the operator, the solution with the operating and base office in Florø will be 10–15 years. Competence and workplaces are important local concerns, and the Committee points out that it is important for the operator to cooperate actively with business organisations in the region so that local and regional businesses can qualify to compete for the supplies to the field. It is a goal to increase the use of non-emission power in Norwegian petroleum production and to assess power from land in all new developments. In the case of the Knarr extension, any future electrification of the float, even if the operator has not found electrification appropriate at present, is provided with a background to the cost level. It is important to stress that today’s treatment of Knarr’s construction therefore does not in any way exclude future electrification of the field, but on the contrary points out that this must be assessed together with other measures in the coming climate communication. The centre party is aware of the objective that the petroleum activity will benefit local communities along the coast through ring-fences in terms of activity and workplaces. In this way, Knarr is a very good example. As a result of the last exchange of lines, the environment along the coast, along the coast, is well qualified to assume responsibility for the expansion of the petroleum sector. That's the most important argument for just adding activity to the bases along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1167	The main weight of the expansion and operation of the Knarr field shall be from Florø. The operator specified that they would add logistics and helicopter base to Florø. In addition, an operating unit will be located at the base of the same city. The base and operating office in Florø will be responsible for planning and managing the production company itself at the FPSO. This includes responsibility for maintenance and modifications, procurement and logistics. The operator aims at storing subsea equipment and other equipment from Florø. This is a solution that the Progress Party is happy to put in place. Just the Sogn County and the Fjords have had little of the nourishment that comes as a result of the petroleum activity, which this establishment hopefully changes. The solution of an operational and base office in Florø is an important element in terms of local and regional ringing. Such an environment represents important workplaces themselves, but it will also be a catalyst for new activities such as the demand for goods and services. The operator states that the base and operating units may be between 10 and 15 years old works in Florø. A Joint Committee is engaged in the development of Knarr to have significant repercussions on the employment of Florø. It is also gratifying that the operator company has chosen the city as a helicopter base, and one argued that this also applies to both drilling, expansion and operation. For fishing, Knarr is located in an area with limited fishing activity. When pipelines and underwater equipment will be irradiable, this establishment will have no negative impact on fishing. So the premise is that development activity does not lead to significant operational disadvantages or catch reductions. The investment at Knarr central is estimated at 6.3 billion. NOK and a total of SEK 11,2 billion. kr if Knarr west is also to be expanded. The extractable resources of Knarr centrally estimate one to between 8 and 16 million Sm3 oil equivalents, and a total of between 10 and 25 million Sm3 oil equivalents if Knarr west is also included. The technical solution to be used is to ensure that the infrastructure can be used in conjunction with future findings in the area. The Plan for the expansion and operation of the Knarr field confirms that independent development is also being done in mature areas, and that is very good. This is a totally very good solution, as a joint committee stands behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1188	Norway has had an adventurous development as an oil and gas nation for 40 years. Over the years, oil and gas revenues have largely contributed to Norway becoming one of the richest countries in the world, and it has benefited the whole population. On the right, Norway is and continues to be a major producer and exporter of energy, in the first range of oil and gas, but also renewable energy. The petroleum industry on the Norwegian base is currently facing an important crossroads. After several decades with a focus on new field development, a large part of the Norwegian base has come into a so-called mature phase. The findings that are being made today are small. This is particularly true in mature areas of the North Sea. Knarr is essentially an oil field. The extractable resources are estimated at between 8 and 16 billion. Sm3, and an operational phase of between 6 and 20 years is planned. Although small in relation to the former giants on Norwegian pedestals, this is an important extension. It is important, in the current phase of petroleum development on a Norwegian base, that even less findings are being developed, and the Stortinge must probably expect to have many such issues in the future. Today, the size manages two field extensions west of Sogn and Fjordane, which become important both nationally and locally. It is a general objective that the petroleum industry should benefit the whole country. New projects will provide regional ring-fencing by contributing to industrial development and job creation both regionally and locally, inter alia. through the location of the operational organisations. Most of the expansion and operation of the Knarr field shall be done from Florø. The operator indicates that they will place the logistical and helicopter base in Florø. In addition, an operating unit will be located to the base. The base and operating office in Florø will be responsible for the planning and management of the production company itself on the site of the installation. This includes responsibility for maintenance and modifications, the purchase of services and logistics. This is, in my opinion, a wise choice. After GdF Suez got a contract on a helicopter to Gjøa, the capacity in Florø is good. The same is true of the housing services. In addition, there is embedded flexibility in relation to current concessions. The location of Florø can provide important local workplaces in itself, but it will also be a catalyst for new activity such as the demand for goods and services. The operator refers to the ability of the base and operating units to provide between 10 and 15 years of service in Florø. This also creates expectations that you expect to be met. BG’s location of key functions to Florø confirms and recognises the competence of Florø. It is an important signal both for the oil environment in the county and for the offensive base environment in Florø. It gives inspiration and weight in further developing the petroleum industry in the county. It is important that the operator cooperates with regional business organisations and the supplier network in order to contribute to the ability of regional business to qualify for deliveries to the field. The solution of an operational and base office in Florø is an important element in terms of regional and local ringing. As a magnificent representative from Sogn and Fjordane, it is particularly gratifying to be involved in handling issues relating to the development of Knarr and Valemon. It is good to experience that a joint committee praises the oil environment in Florø through its comments. There is a great deal of respect for the work done in the coastal town, and it is a pleasure to see that the work that started with daring vocabulary in Flora, the Dagfinn Hearts, has evolved into an oil environment from a national perspective. It has been a great paradox for a long time that although very much of the national oil and gas resources are located just off the coast of Sogn and Fjordane, there has been little activity in our country. It is very important that the positive developments we see in Florø continue, and that the oil and gas industries create positive local ringing effects. It is also the safest way to connect to further development of oil and gas fields along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1219	Let me start by saying that all three things we have now been through demonstrate broad agreement on the grips. That's from my point of view very well. The name Knarr comes from a Nordic designation of a type of boat that was used during the Viking period. The gun was, with its wide and deep hull, a robust cargo ship that the Vikings could use to transport merchandise or exchange. Cereals, furs, weapons and livestock were transported from a distance and close to home to Norway. In the same way, the trick we're discussing today is going to bring a lot of good back to the country. The investments related to Knarr have been estimated at over 6 billion. kr. In the development of both Knarr central and Knarr west prospectus, the investments are intended to exceed 11 billion. kr. Investments and rentals of production ships are added. The field has an estimated operating phase of between 6 and 20 years, and during this period it is hoped to raise between 8 and 25 million. standard cubic metres of oil equivalent, depending on the success of the model. The present value of the Knarr field is calculated at 8.1 billion. kr before tax. Tax revenue has been calculated at approximately SEK 5.7 billion. kr. These oil and gas resources will generate substantial revenues to Norway through the tax system on the base. The funds shall be used to maintain the welfare state. But the project creates more than just direct income in dollars and dollars. Knarr, in addition to the tax income of the country from production and operation, will provide activity and employment on land. This applies both during the development and operation phase. The operator, BG Norway, has decided to add the supply base, helicopter terminal and a holding to Florø. According to the Impact Assessment, the extension will contribute to 11,000 annual works on a national basis from 2011 to 2014. In the case of the total Norwegian employment effects of the operation, they are estimated at over 650 yearly works. These figures then include consumer effects, as well as direct and indirect production effects. It is very positive that Knarr can help to strengthen and further develop the base and operating environment in Florø and at Fjord Base in Florø. I got a tour of the base myself earlier this year. It is good to see that the oil and gas industries provide jobs and activity on land. The fact that some of these jobs are linked to the operation of the field is also positive. There is something I understand that the environment in Florø has asked for. It is a government objective that the activity on the pedestal should produce regional ring-effects by contributing to industrial development and jobs. I am concerned that companies through their petroleum activity contribute to local ring effects. These include: the importance of facilitating the qualification of relevant local or regional suppliers and of facilitating the participation of enterprises from the national part of the country in tendering procedures. The base and operational structure shall contribute to local and regional development of nutrition and competence. These are the conditions that will be fully illuminated in the forthcoming notification of petroleum. An impact assessment has been carried out by Knarr. The impact assessment has not revealed any evidence to suggest that the project should not be carried out or that remedial action should be taken in addition to that underlying the development plan. The chosen deployment concept is the best of the assessed solutions in terms of technical, economic and resource management considerations. The development plan has satisfactory solutions with regard to emissions to air and sea. I believe that Knarr is a robust project, which provides good socio-economic profitability. The project may be carried out within an acceptable framework in terms of safety, working environment, external environment and fisheries interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President asks the Council of State to stay away from Moe and represent the government until we get a new Council of State into the Chamber. [[Fotation, see page 4608]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1258	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1267	The risk and threat picture facing society is broad and complex. Social security work shall safeguard the security of the population and ensure key social functions and values. It is important for us to prevent, so that individual and society are not affected by accidents, crises or disasters. At the same time, undesirable and serious incidents, when they happen, must be handled effectively and effectively. And it is in this regard that the matter we are now dealing with – Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011, Completion of Emergency Network deployment and operation across mainland Norway – is important. Fire services, health services and the police must have a common radio link that meets operational and safety requirements. The replacement of old equipment is necessary to strengthen the capacity of society to deal with major accidents, organised crime and terrorist threats. The development of the first phase of the emergency network has been a challenging process. A complex technology project that requires interaction between a number of actors, user groups and suppliers has led to the first part of the project taking much longer than initially assumed. But I'm glad to be able to make a unanimous recommendation from the committee, so that we can now start implementing the network throughout the country. The project is delayed by approx. three years. It is mainly due to the fact that the supplier has spent longer time building the radio network with base stations than planned, and there have been challenges related to the delivery of the fire services and healthcare communication centres. I stress that this is not due to technology choices. I would also like to point out that the competition to supply Emergency Networks was technology-neutral. TETRA technology is predominantly chosen as the standard for emergency communication in Europe and in our neighbouring countries. The analyst Gartner has identified the use of TETRA and other technologies and standards in emergency and emergency contact and concludes that there are no real alternatives to TETRA today for the deployment of the network. With regard to radiation concerns, the Committee noted that emergency grid equipment should be installed according to State radiation protection guidelines. Use experience is generally positive. Police and several fire services report inter alia: communication with the other emergency facilities at an early stage has enabled them to provide better service to the public and have been better prepared on arrival at the accident site. The fire service feedback is good, as it emerged from the management of the pollution action around the ship ‘Godafoss’ and from the fire of a trailer in the Oslofjord tunnel in March this year. When the Committee has worked on this matter, some critical recordings have been made by smoke divers in Asker and Bærum Fire Corps Association. I would therefore like to point out that it is working on improving indoor coverage, with mobile antenna amplifiers, improving the extra equipment for the smoke divers like microphones, ear plugs, etc. However, it must be stressed that most feedback from the fire services that have put the equipment into service is positive. In step 2 users are intended to be able to select terminals from more than one supplier. Otherwise, I show that the fire director in Asker and Bærum says they are very pleased with how the connection works so far. In the case of the Oslo Fire Service, we know that they will not yet use emergency networks as a local means of communication for smoke divers inside fire objects. In addition to that, the fire service in Oslo Emergency Network is using it to the full. Other fire services also use emergency nets for smoke diving. But the essential thing is that the general communication within the fire service and between the fire service and the other two emergency services become common. It is beneficial for all fire services in a region to have a common radio system so that they can communicate between themselves in major actions. There has been some focus on users' operating costs, and especially the municipalities. To say that it is expected that the cost picture between the different levels will change. This will be evaluated, and the positive opportunities for the use of resources in the three floors will be considered. It is therefore too early to say anything exactly about the cost picture of each department now, especially for the municipal fire services. In the process of looking at the costs of municipalities, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the KS should be involved. The Committee is committed to enabling other emergency and emergency users and voluntary organisations to become users at a later stage. We are aware that, among other things, Norwegian People's Aid and Red Cross are very concerned about this, and it is important that they can come along as soon as possible. A new emergency network offers many advantages. It is safe to listen, it strengthens privacy, and it provides better operational and safety conditions for emergency situations in the country. I propose the unanimous recommendation of the Committee on this matter. In addition, the Progress Party has a proposal that I expect them to explain themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1297	The president noted that both the councils and the representatives were taken a little on the bed. That's the Storting, this game we can, and this game we all have to align with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1300	It is probably a bit like the wholesale treatment in the case of the emergency network, because when it came to Stortinget, it was largely urgent and full speed, without actually stopping and looking at the consequences of introducing the new emergency network. Actually, this should have been a happy day, especially for all those who work in the first-line service, who are the ones who are in the war and need this equipment in the best possible way. I really wish I could say with my hand on my heart that this is a happy day. But unfortunately, it has begun to enter some new information that clearly casts some doubt on the clearance of the proposition, and that all the floors are so pleased with the new emergency network. It's actually a little regrettable, when the Progress Party in the Transport Committee asked for some time to actually go through and learn a little more about the objections that have come, especially from the Fire and Rescue Department, but also from some other organisations, for example. KS – which is largely guided by the political colour of the political majority in the Grand Duchy – which is deeply concerned about the economic impact of the introduction of the new emergency network. I think it's important to bring it with me. I record that there are many who write in an annotation form that they are concerned about this and want to look at it. But the Progress Party remains alone in saying that the additional expenditure should be compensated. Today’s Evening Post reports that there have been clear signals from small municipalities that the cost actually exceeds twice as much as it was before the introduction of the new emergency network. This means that it can go beyond general preparedness, because you have to take money from operational service and move over to pay for a network. I ask the question: why send the bill from one government to another government? Maybe you should really say that this is about saving lives, and it's about saving big values. This applies to people who are there both to save human lives and to save great values in society. Instead of spending a lot of resources on invoicing and administration, it might be said that it is a government task to ensure that you have a proper emergency network in place. When we first discuss this, it's also important to bear in mind that there's a history here that's quite special. We have previously been able to run this case through the Storting in 14 days, when the first phase was carried out. Even then, the Progress Party was critical of the way in which the matter was dealt with. But we're recording that here it's only about one thing, and it's driving the case through the Storting as quickly as possible, and then you're hoping that the result will be for the benefit of those who are out in operational service, out in the war, and actually have to make an effort for society and save human lives and values. Then I find it regrettable that the fire and rescue services of Oslo clearly say that they do not want their men who are smoke divers, and others are going to use this equipment, because the system is too poor to use indoors. At least there is something you really should have taken seriously in this matter. I also think it's sad that you don't have time to look at both the Civil Defense and the Red Cross's recordings, and the recordings from other organisations that are busy that we have to guarantee them the right to use the web. It says in the note that you have to look at it and open up the possibility of it. But then it should not have been a problem to be even clearer in terms of ensuring that you actually get that opportunity. I want to address the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, which is just about to ensure that costs are not passed on to the municipalities, because it will go beyond the operational service and the important job that the people are going to do. We're going to vote for the proposal now, because it's already spent 1 billion dollars. kr and it is difficult to reverse now. We have had other technical solutions, but now we have come so far that it is difficult to reverse. My great fear is that in five to ten years you will feel that you have actually wasted a lot of this money because you have not got the web you intended to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1319	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1322	I am not known in the Transport Committee, but in the Control Committee, and this has also been a subject of the annual discussion there of Document 1. So a little bit I've been to it when, unfortunately, the committee chairman couldn't take the case here in the Chamber. The traditional separate radio link in the police, fire services and health services is based on old technologies that are not adapted to technological developments elsewhere in society. The emergencies are, as we know, increasingly demanding in terms of service efficiency, precision and safety, and a new emergency network is absolutely necessary. We agree with that, and the representative of Hoksrud also agrees with that, as far as I am aware. Hopefully, the new emergency network will provide greater security for users and will strengthen privacy. Overall, this is really a major effort on societal critical infrastructure. At present, there are connection solutions that are old and meet little safety and operational requirements. Through the development of Emergency Networks, society’s ability to both combat organised crime, deal with major accidents, natural disasters and possible terrorist threats is strengthened. The interaction between emergency situations will improve, and we will establish a non-listening link that strengthens privacy in line with the data protection requirements. The development of the Emergency Network has taken a long time, and it has become more expensive than intended. There is reason to recall that the estimated cost framework for the nationwide deployment of Emergency Networks in two steps originally amounted to a total of 3.6 billion. kr. It was in 2004 kroner. The nationwide development was to be completed during 2009. Now we write 2011 and we all realize that it is a very late project we are now facing, and that it is going to be much more expensive. This is also the reason why, for several rounds, the control committee has addressed the emergency network separately in its feedback to this room. There has been an overall committee and the Council of State is well aware of the concern expressed by the Control Committee for both costs and progress. Nor is it going to pass that the municipalities will unfortunately have significantly increased costs. We are in the Christian People's Party concerned about the bill that here seems to be able to be streamlined to the municipalities. For many major municipalities, the introduction of the new emergency network will result in multiple expenditures. From our side, we therefore believe that the real costs incurred by municipalities in operating the new emergency network must be recorded and fully compensated. I could imagine that the Council of State in the post he will have later said something about how the government looks at the situation regarding the costs the municipalities will sit with. We have received concerns from several teams. Local politicians express their concern. Many would probably accept a modest increase in costs, but not a multiple. On 1 May, the Rescue Company launched a new emergency network in the Oslofjord area. According to the Rescue Company, they have a better internal connection in emergency situations, but also a better connection with the other emergency situations. Until now, each emergency has had its own connection. Time-critical information can now be exchanged more effectively. Voice quality is better and calls cannot be intercepted by unauthorised persons. That's good. At the same time, we know – and that was the representative of Hoksrud – that there have been some crack signals from some users. Emergency networks are established in the central eastern region with active police, fire services and healthcare users. It is now used by approx. 7 000 users, with almost 350000 calls per month. Users are – and it is important to underline – mainly satisfied. The police have been using the network throughout the Step 1 area for almost one year and are also satisfied. Some have expressed concern about radiation. According to the State Radiation Protection Agency, no health damage has been detected as a result of the technology used. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress once again that we are excited about the progress of the matter, and that we are setting up a new emergency network that is technologically up-to-date and that can meet new needs. This is necessary even if there is still cause for concern in terms of costs and progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1341	I think we all in this room agree that there is a need for a new emergency network. We also agree that it has been a long time since the start of the project Nødnett, until you get to where you are today. Now I am not sure that the fact is any reason why we should postpone or reject the matter today. The vast majority of those who have spoken out of the trades, perhaps in particular the police, have boasted of it and said that there is a clear progress for them. But it is quite correct, as has been pointed out both by the case-rapporteur and by Hoksrud, that some agencies, some fire services, have said that they are seeing some problems today. The question is, what do we achieve by postponing the case? I find it difficult that a project that has come as far as this is today should start again. It's going to be a huge cost, and I'm not sure we're going to get any better either technologically or in user-friendliness either. Now it is pointed out that many municipalities are going to have extra costs. Yes, that's probably right, but it's also pointed out that the cost level for some municipalities today is low because they haven't updated the equipment and spent money on it, just waiting for them to get this new emergency network. So the cost level today is not a standard level based on the current system, either. That is, it is natural that some of the costs are increasing, but the quality is also increasing substantially. What I want to ask the Council of State to remember is that the Ministry of Local Affairs has it in mind when the economy of the municipalities is to be presented. It was referred to the Evening Post of today. The evening post office also did not have absolutely only negative notices. There was a part that was dissatisfied, but there were actually quite a few who were satisfied with the system. From this point of view, I see no reason for us to postpone the matter, rather refuse it. The consequences of that would be quite enormous. We have probably spent more than 14 days dealing with this, and we first got a thorough briefing for approx. half a year ago, so we have had the opportunity to get involved in the matter over quite a long time. Now it's like when we're going to deal with issues in Stortinget, there are often special interests that appear in the media in the very last minute, and if we as politicians were to let ourselves be governed by it, we would have a difficult deal in this room. We therefore recommend that the matter be brought forward as it has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1356	Let me first thank the Committee for good and effective work. It is not difficult to conclude that we would always like to spend a longer time on matters, but as this matter was set up, with clear agreements with the supplier for the treatment of a step 2, with the need for the agencies so that we can now progress also in the development of the rest of the country and with a good dialogue between the department and the committee, I feel that we are doing this in a qualitatively good way that takes care of the reasons which Stortinget obviously has to take care of. In the middle of proceedings, postponements, expenses and formalities, we enjoyed the fantastic investment that we now as a community can afford. We now get to the height of other countries – perhaps even a little ahead of us – to get a modern emergency network. We give them who every day stand out in difficult and difficult situations, a good work tool. This makes the people of Norway feel safer, but it also makes it possible for the people who work in these departments to actually do their job in a good way, and not least take care of their own safety in demanding work situations. The current contact solutions of emergency reagents are old and not satisfactory. There is no doubt that such an upgrade is necessary. We are pleased that the experience from the first stage of construction tells us that this is a solution that works, and that we can go on with, so that the whole country is now benefiting from the Eastern region already in place. We're building an emergency network for three emergency stations at the same time. It is unique in an international context. It is demanding, but it also provides a great opportunity for these emergency situations to communicate optimally and use resources in conjunction, so that they are also well coordinated in the field. So we're the last country in Western Europe to acquire a nationwide emergency network. We are a country with a geography that makes such expansions more costly and more complicated than in flat continental countries, but the less important it is not that we have such a technology chosen by other countries. The fact that we also have TETRA technology has been a discussion. It also makes us have a common platform with very many other countries, when the upgrade comes, and when the system is to be further developed. I think that also has a positive cost side in the long term. So we could spend a lot of time ramming up all the benefits of a new emergency network, but I'm noticing that the committee is really quite unanimous that this is a necessary project. When there is some disagreement within the Committee, it may be more about cost allocation and how this is to be operated, and how, in particular, municipalities should be able to exploit the new platform provided by the emergency network. To that it is to answer that most of what comes as a cost change for municipalities relates to quality improvements. It's an improved product you get. You don't get the old product at a new price, to say it like that. This is because you now get a completely different user functionality. It will also provide opportunities for later data transfers and technology choices that may provide even greater functionality. This must be paid by the users. It is also the case that users themselves have been very much involved in providing the leadership for these functions, so that they have a joint responsibility that some of the operating aspects actually cost more, simply because you get more – you simply pay for a better service. At the same time, there is no government ever that has increased the municipal framework as strongly as the red-green government has done since we took over. I think the number is now 48 billion. kr – it is almost difficult to keep track of how much the municipal framework is increasing. I am absolutely sure that both the KS and the municipalities themselves will have this in their calculations when the dialogue with the Ministry of Local Affairs and the government continues in the years to come on what kind of framework we are going to have. The more important it is that we prioritise well-being, services and good Community economy, rather than tax cuts in the billions class. It's at least our government going to stand for it, even in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1380	It would probably be a greater surprise if the Council of State had not been so satisfied with what you are now presenting, as the situation is. What it's all about is that it's not just the fire pits that worry about what's going on. The police department is equally concerned about the increase in costs of paying for this system. We also know that you do not have a proper situation with regard to the medical helicopter service, where the web is not good enough. The health services would actually scrape the entire project at some point. This means that there are still many challenges and many concerns. It is not that the municipalities have operated and paid for this over a long period of time, but it is now beginning to see the result of the costs. And my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State ensure that the municipalities do not have an additional cost, or does the government think it is right that both the municipalities, the police and the health services are getting increased costs? And how did he possibly intend to cover it up? Does he think it's okay that they get the increased costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1386	That some of the users get increased costs is a fact. It is simply because they get a completely different service. It's like if you get Mercedes instead of Bubble, you'd like to pay a little bit more. You get a different experience, you get a different user-friendliness, and you get a different benefit. This has happened in full understanding with the users, so I really don't think there's any disagreement about that. What might be a more relevant discussion is how to cover this increased quality. Is there a framework within the police, local and fire services sector in future budgets that will also deal with this? I am absolutely sure that the police will communicate to the Minister of Justice, and I am absolutely sure that the KS will communicate it to the Minister of Local Affairs. And again, we need to prioritise and spend more money on Community services in the years to come in order to increase quality and capacity. That is why we very much disagree on other things that are high on the priority list of the Progress Party, such as tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1393	Now there are enough Bubble enthusiasts who will stand up to get a Mercedes instead! The point here is that these are expenses that the municipalities get presented without having any influence on what the final sum of the seventh and last will be for the project that the state has initiated. My question is – just to make it clear: Is it not on the part of this government to consider whether any of the increased costs of municipal offices should be covered by the State, or is it possible to take them into the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1402	Let me first take the premise, that this was a project initiated by the state. I would say that it was the users themselves who initiated the project, because it was those who continually described an out-of-date emergency network, a network that did not guarantee basic privacy interests, which was not coordinated between the agencies, which did not contain location services, etc., and which did not open up data transmission and many other services that a digital network can provide us in the future. Then they have also been involved in making demands on functionality and quality, which have helped to make the project what it has become. It's positive, because they're going to use it, but it also has a cost side. There we have to share responsibility, but at the end of the day it is the economic policy of the state – the budget and national transfers to the municipalities – that also determines the ability of these users to pay. So this is going to be the same problem, and we're going to take that into account and take it into account when we're designing the state budgets forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1409	The fact that this government serves bills that it itself should pay, further to others, is well-known, and the entrance to the reply is the ICT cost to the police, which the state does not take, but which the state has to take, and which eats operational police services. For good reason, the municipalities are afraid that these are facing some of the same problems, that there are significant extra costs, much greater than the users have expected in the wake of this. And it's not a little bit: it's 370 million. kr each year for 15 years to be paid. That's almost 6 billion. kr. Therefore, insurance from the government is necessary to ensure that municipalities do not receive increased bills. That's the one. The second is to challenge the main solution, namely whether it is necessarily the case that municipalities have to pay so much for this, because emergency contact is one of the core services of national infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1418	Once again, this is how you get a completely different product. And let me correct my Bubble example. Let's say we go from bike to car, because that's probably more of what this is about. We get a completely different generation of services within the emergency situations. It costs money. It costs in investments, and it costs in operation. But ultimately, the police's budget, the fire department's budget and the health budget are determined by us in the state budget. We're going to continue the formidable increase in municipal economy that we've had in recent years. We believe that joint services such as well-being, security, security are more important than tax cuts in the 10, 20, 30, 70, 100 billion-dollar class, which the Progress Party has proposed in this Chamber in various contexts, in principle or in concrete terms, and we are going to follow it up in the increases in the police budget and in other budgets that have still increased almost record-keeping, I believe, under our government. That's the answer: the money has to be used in common instead of on other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1425	I think the Council of State had a good, good and factual presentation of the matter. The matter seems to me to have collapsed towards the end. Then I ask myself the question: have we already started the election campaign, and do we have to bring the tax debate and the Community goods into the emergency matter as well? I felt we had a fairly good and factual debate when it came to this matter, which I think is important, but I don't think it's important to bring this in now. So the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think it is important to bring the election campaign into the debate on Emergency Networks today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1430	I thought that the right also thought it was brilliant every time you were allowed to talk about tax cuts and the reduction of government revenue in favour of relief in different tax systems. I've understood that has been a heart issue for the party for many decades. Here we disagree. When I am challenged by the financing of the operation of everything from the use of the emergency network by the health care, police or fire services, the answer is, of course, the general framework they have. It doesn't help if we earmark a grant for Emergency Network for the municipalities if we take the same amount with the other hand or more. There is, of course, an overall accounting that needs to be cleared, which determines whether municipalities can take this promise with quality-enhancing, with more security — whether health services, police and fire services can do so in that way — without jeopardising other important tasks that they have to perform. That's when I think the basic question is, how much do we have to distribute? And that's determined by the income side and the total state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1437	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1440	Hoksrud's claim that this case has been subject to urgent procedure, and that a lot of new information has been received, I would like to comment. Firstly, I agree with the representative of Myraune. I think he had a pretty good post about this. But let me clarify: this case has been known for a long time. When the matter was discussed by the Committee, it was initially set up at an even tighter time frame. It was a desire to have some more time, and it was met. It was only when we had the last meeting in the case that the Progress Party proposed to postpone it. It has been treated in the usual way. The Committee has received many input, opinions and views that have been assessed, as also stated in the referral. The majority of the Committee considers that the matter has been properly and thoroughly dealt with and that we have the information necessary to deal with and take decisions today. With regard to the notice in the evening post today, I can't see that there is something new that we didn't know before. We were well aware of what the smoke divers in Asker and Bærum meant in the matter. It's in the notes, and I also mentioned it in my post. The representative of Hoksrud mentioned among others: Red Cross. We are well aware of what the Red Cross believes in the matter. They want to get in at the very beginning of the step two expansion, and to say it that way: it's mildly challenging if we were to do it. It was therefore important for the Committee to stress that they should enter as soon as possible. I also took that with me in my case rapporteur's post. In the case of municipalities, their costs are not an unknown matter. We have actually talked about this every time the matter has been discussed, also in connection with the State budget. But I underline again, as I said in my previous post: In the process of looking at the costs of the municipalities, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and – I stress – the KS should also be involved. Then you're going to get back to whether or not you're going to have some compensation. This is a major and important matter, and it is a good day for social security work in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1453	This is not a tax debate. From the Council of State, there will be a polemic demonstration to avoid giving clear answers to concrete questions. Norway needs a good emergency network. Of course, Norway can afford such an investment to modernise and streamline national infrastructure. It applies in addition to national interconnector infrastructure to ensure life, health and property. That's why this is very important. There are aspects of the project which give rise to some concern and which require additional attention to be given both to the government, which is politically responsible, and to the agency responsible for implementation and implementation. Concern has been expressed to the Transport Committee for 12 hours. The message from People's Radiation Protection is one, and it was not mentioned by the case rapporteur. The statements from the fire floor were mentioned. So it's about the Fire and Rescue Station in the Municipality of Oslo as well as Asker and Bærum Fire Service saying that the costs they're afraid of will increase significantly. The local authorities’ stakeholder organisation, KS, has sent a letter to the Committee dated 30 May of this year pointing back to the economic impact for municipalities with a new emergency network and asking the Committee to clearly indicate that the additional costs for municipalities in the development of the Emergency Network should be compensated by the State. When they do it again – and in the form of letters to the committee – it must mean that they are concerned and have a feeling that previous recordings may not be taken entirely by the government. All enquiries have relevant content, including the last one I will mention – which was also not mentioned by the case-rapporteur – that was from the Civil Protection Service, the Regional Managers’ Labour Commission. A little bit about the cost picture, which also gives some cause for concern: the first step increased from 900 million. kr in 2006-krona to nearly $1350 million. kr in 2011-krona. Step 2 was originally estimated at 3.7 billion. kr measured in 2006-krona. Now we're talking about a $4.7 billion cost framework. kr in 2011-krona. So this project is quality proof, but there's an uncertainty framework of almost 20 pst. Here. It is significant, and it shows that there is still considerable uncertainty. That is why, on the part of the Progress Party, we want to stress the need for professional management of the project, so that we avoid a new fighter aircraft project. We point out that if the increase in costs continues, this should in fact be subject to administrative audit by the National Audit Office. A guiding principle of the project is that the stations will not pay for the operation of the new network until it is put into service. So there's reason to ask them if they have to pay at all, and how much they have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1470	There has been a lot of talk about going from Bubble to Mercedes and even from bicycle to car. I am not sure if the Minister for the Environment will be equally satisfied with the fact that you go from bike to car. But I definitely see the logic of the argument, that you actually get something better, and that's all very happy. The case rapporteur says that there has been so much time on this matter. Yes, we have had better time on this matter than we had before when this case was being dealt with – I say that the case has received 14 days of treatment in Stortinget. But that's the way it is: this case was issued in Stortinget on 31 May. On 30 May, the Committee receives a letter from the CS, which is very concerned about the economic impact on the municipal sector. On 30 May we receive letters concerning the completion and expansion of the emergency network, from someone working in Asker and Bærum Fire Service. On 27 May – just a few days before the committee gives its opinion – you will receive a letter from the Civil Protection Committee. In addition, the Press Association sent a letter to the Committee, which was also shortly before the Committee was due to give its opinion. That means that it is not as the case-rapporteur says, that this matter is so wonderfully well-lit in all areas. It's precisely this concern that makes us critical. This is not about postponing this until the fall, but about perhaps inviting some of the organisations that are now concerned. And KS isn't any organization either. It is responsible for 430 municipalities, which are concerned about this problem. I want to challenge the Council of State a little because he said this would be like going from bike to car. For the fire and rescue unit, this is not to go from bicycle to car or to anything else. Oslo Fire and Rescue Department has said that they will not let their smoke divers use this network, because it is too bad – and worse than the old one. It worries me and shows me that there is a lot of concern about the implementation of the new emergency network by some of the people who are going to put it into use. Not least, we also know that there is a lot of concern among health professionals that you will not be able to use medical helicopters etc. in a good way. There's a lot of questions. I wish I could agree with the Council of State that this is a fantastic investment. But I hope we don't end up like a hunter's flight, that the exceedances will be huge because it turns out that this system isn't working properly – especially when it's going to roll out across the country. There are differences between the East and parts of the rest of the country, and that is part of the concern of the Progress Party. I hope I'm wrong, and in three-four-five years I don't have to stand on this pulpit and say, "What did we say?"
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1486	I guess we should all see that there are some challenges. First of all, there is so much difference between the municipal economies and the municipal priorities in Norway that the world can quickly become such in the future that we feel that someone is driving an electric car and someone else is driving Porsche, based on what you've put up with here. But my main concern is the first line service. When you get clear feedback from both Asker and Bærum fire services and Oslo fire and rescue facilities that smoke divers refuse to use the new system because it is simply too bad, I have to ask: Is there a system today that is such that smoke divers will refuse to use it? If that is the case, I will say one thing on the basis of the concerns we have received: then the proceedings in Stortinget have been reasonably unprofessional. Is it so that what we adopt today will be in danger of jeopardizing the lives of people in the first-line service? We have not received an answer to that – we have no answer to that. If the fire and rescue services refuse to use the new emergency network because of poor communication, is it not that we, as the national parliament of the country, are actually putting the first line service at much greater risk than we should have done? Do we shift the first line service in front of us, or should we spend some longer time putting in place systems for which the entire first line service could go well? This applies not only to the fire service and smoke divers, ambulance helicopter personnel say exactly the same thing: they don't have a connection, it doesn't work as it should. We are hoped that we will have a technological development in the matter, so that this can be good. It's not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1499	First to the representative Fredriksen: He must have read some documents that no one else has had access to and has not seen, when, in terms of the experience and the recordings we have received from the smoke divers, he believes that both the ambulance staff and the police – I think he said – have the same experience. It's pretty amazing. I almost have to come with some details. First to Sortevik, who probably gives me more or less criticism because I don't mention the letter from the People's Radiation Protection. The adjustment was made on 31 May. The letter from the People's Radiation Protection came on June 6th, i.e. two or three days ago. It is a little difficult to include it in the notes when the letter arrives late. I could have said a lot about this, but, as I said, it gets a little weird when you argue that we haven't brought it with us, when the letter came so late. The representative Hoksrud mentioned the letter from the press organisations. We took the vote on 31 May. The letter from the press organisations came on 29 April. We have also received comments from the department, so we are well aware of what is in it. I still believe that this matter has been dealt with properly and thoroughly in the committee. It is absolutely right that we take decisions in this major and important matter today. Finally, after hearing the debate and the recordings from the Progress Party, I think I will say it this way: I am very pleased that there is a unanimous position in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1512	In the transition from bicycle to car, let me stress that there is an electric car here. It is simply powered in Norwegian, clean hydropower, so I think the Swedish Government's Solheim Council thinks it's okay that we get an efficient emergency network that goes on power. However, to be serious: it is clear that when 7000 users are now entering the first stage — 40000 users across the country — into a new system, it will not be straightforward or without in-flight adaptation situations. It's going to be about coverage. We're doing a lot of tests on it, but we're going to have to keep going with it as the system comes into use. It's going to be customization to the individual level. It's going to be adaptation to the cooperation between the agencies. There's going to be some services that only someone needs, but maybe not others, as it is when a very technology promise is made. So here we just have to work as we expand. We know we've had problems along the way. Some of the problems may also be due to the fact that the supplier gave us an incredibly favourable price. It should be the opposition that was bragging by the government to be able to get into port. It is not bad to spend taxpayers' money in the best possible way. But it has also given us some challenges, both on progress and on contract engineering. I really think the dialogue I have had with the opposition – and in particular the Progress Party and the representative of Hoksrud, who has a different position on some points – has been quite right. There are questions that are asked, which I am trying to answer. But when the representative Fredriksen says that this project will almost put life in jeopardy, I think we have to take off the silk gloves and ask: is the Progress Party for a new emergency network? Should we go further with step 2? If you really think that this puts life at risk, you should vote against it. Then you tell the police, the fire department, the health service, all those in the field, who are now waiting for us to make a billion-dollar investment to do the job for people in Norway, for safety, and not least for their own safety, that this goes against the Progress Party. It's okay, it's fair, it's politics. But you can't be both for and against. Will put life in jeopardy, says the representative Fredriksen, well, then we'll see that this is a project that all of us go on with, which we provide, as the users of the studies show that they are largely satisfied with. And then the Progress Party uses one letter, one user group, one signal as an argument that this should be stopped – all right, but say it honestly to those who are going to use the Emergency Network!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1523	I assume that the Council of State has come to the conclusion that we ultimately actually support the proposal. There's no problem. But it's the procedure that I'm criticising. You get a kind of alarm message – I read here what the Oslo Fire and Rescue Department has concluded: ‘Smoking using Tetra as a smoke diving connection is not functional, stable or secure’.» Further: ‘Smoking diving connection is to be regarded as fire protection equipment and is also a requirement for smoke diving.’;» And... ‘It is not recommended to replace our existing smoke diving compound with Tetra.’ Then I am not saying that we should throw TETRA and not adopt it, but we have to assume that we have some major challenges before this emergency connection is well completed. And should it be that it is not politically correct to provide this type of case information, I would say one thing: then you can keep talking about bicycles and cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1545	I came into the debate a little late. The Christian People's Party had to get a relief to participate in the ordinary debate. And just as it was a good solution for the Christian People's Party, I'm sure that the net will be a very good solution for our society as a whole. It is true that today we have an old radio connection that characterizes some of our most important agencies: the police, fire services and health services. I'm absolutely sure this web is going to be good, and the experience so far has been very positive. And then I'm busy listening to the counterattacks. We're going to take that part with us in the further work. I also feel that the government is giving a clear signal about this. What I experience from the Progress Party's side is that they have a pre-war hold. I think that's wise on a lot of questions, but I don't think it's wise on this particular question, because I think it's important here to get the system in place. Then the Progress Party is finally involved in this in the setting, although they have a strong desire to contribute a clear double communication in the case. What matters to the Christian People's Party is that we have a good net in place. That's the best solution we can see today. And I think that an additional delay in a matter that we've been waiting for so long, there's no reason. Then it was noted that the proceedings were critical. In any case, I would like to say that the proceedings in Stortinget have been very good, and I would like to finish my post by giving a hand to the case spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1563	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1566	First, I want to say that the Council of State's argument in his last article was almost on a level that I would really call ridiculous. But that's just what I was thinking. So to the previous speaker, if the Christian People's Party thinks it's 'double communication' to listen to, or other political parties in this room think it's double communication to listen to the users, it's okay. I'm busy listening to the users, to those who are going to stand out in the war, to those who are going to be there and make sure that this works in a good way. I'm concerned that you actually take them seriously. The case rapporteur would not talk about what this is all about, and the letters that came just before delivery. Government believes that KS is a small user group. I think KS is a large user group. They are responsible for health professionals, and they are responsible for the fire services in municipalities and will be an important player in this new emergency network and its use. But I'm recording what kind of argument you're now putting on. It's okay! We're worried. We hope that it will be good, but we are sure that we will return to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1575	There are a few times I have been to Stortinget and a unanimous vote has been so fiercely debated. That's interesting. But it's probably because you don't really understand where you want to go. To Fredriksen, I can say that I have not really been in doubt about what the Progress Party believes about this matter. But I'm not quite sure that Fredriksen actually knows what the Progress Party believes in this case, because you can't both be on the road and protest for the whole world. You have to kind of decide which foot to stand on. It can't be that one believes this project is a threat to life and health, while one is proud to say that this is the Progress Party with it, and that this is a promise we make together. In the case of user involvement, in the case of safety, and in the case of adaptation, this is quite well described in the proposition. It says, among other things: correct words in the proposition: ‘There are risk factors related to the ability of the deployment projects to accept user equipment and any user request for change.’ There are many adjustments that need to be made. We have to figure out that it works in all risky situations. We need to know that the coverage is good enough, and we need to take the time needed to implement a new technological system. But it's described here. The Committee agrees. What we're dealing with today is the question of whether we're going to go further with a step two, whether we're going to tell the suppliers that we're ready, that we're going to take the cost, and that we want the whole country now to make use of it. I understand – despite the contributions of some representatives – that there is still a unanimous increase behind this. I'm glad because it gives weight to the project. This takes time. There have been several governments that have dealt with it, so it has gone through different political majority. It's going to be hopefully this government that will implement it, even if it goes far into the next big period. But it's good that there's a broad majority behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1591	Today was supposed to be a happy day, but then it was not quite so, thanks to the progress of the party here in the hall, which appears something special and strange and not quite to be wise on. Here it's not the acting of individual representatives that's strange, but all of us, it seems like. Hoksrud's last post here on the pulpit suggests that one has difficulties in dealing with criticism, but even gives Christmas and criticism in almost every debate. The representative Hoksrud also used one of his posts to sanctify himself by saying that he does not hope that we will come back, and that he must then say, "What did I say?" Fredriksen and Sortevik also followed up that argument. That's right, as many people have said here, one argues against, but votes for, to give the impression that one really is against. It's a double communication, and it's a strange form that I've almost never experienced politically. A cleric in a way to be in opposition to himself and at the same time vote in favour of a case that argues violently against – for one cannot interpret it differently when looking at the dimension above the criticism. One thing is to be critical, to be a little sensitive and to see that there may be some disadvantages there, but the dimension of the criticism of the Progress Party today in this matter is so strong that I am surprised that the Progress Party does not vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1600	I'm a simple man from the country, and understanding that the Progress Party argued for the setting underlying this case was not easy from the posts that I've heard. So I'm sorry that I haven't got the whole debate, but when one uses expressions like this web is going to be a threat to life and health, and then argues and votes for it, I think it's good coverage to say that there's a clear double communication in this case. My greeting to the Progress Party in this way may be that I do not agree with the Council of State that it is this government that will introduce this emergency network, because if it does happen in such a short time, it will be irresponsible handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1610	I can only say that I am a little surprised when I hear the debate on a matter in which the committee has basically agreed. Nor is it the case that the matter of Emergency Networks strikes down as lightning from the clear sky. It is a matter that has been going on for quite a number of years – but now leave it alone. There is no doubt that the qualitative benefits of the Emergency Network are many and clear. The network has higher capacity, is leakproof, has better coverage and better voice quality than the analogue system, and that we have a 24-hour continuous operation and monitoring in place. It will provide increased security for emergency and response personnel and, in turn, contribute to a safer and more robust society. We're going to invest in a necessary work tool for our emergencies. What they have is old, and it has long been announced a new system. If we do not make this investment, the emergency budgets will have to invest in other communications equipment. We have to include that as part of this picture. It is not that the proposition does not point to the challenges of implementing this and rolling it out across the country. It is quite clearly described, and it is also described that we need to follow up the phase-in of this system. The cost picture will be followed up with further monitoring, in addition to what SINTEF has already done. It is pointed out that it is difficult to assess whether this has led to increased costs for users and that a cost assessment needs to be followed up as it is phased in. As the Council of State Gish points out very clearly, the government will follow up all the decisions taken and look at the cost picture in relation to the needs of emergency budgets for appropriations. You'll do the same for the municipal economy, as you'll see every year in spring. I would like to remind you that both the states and the municipalities in this country have good experience with this government that has been sitting for six years, in following up and giving increased appropriations. By that I believe it is wise that we start the deployment of Emergency Networks throughout the country. It will provide a better offer, but we will all have to follow it with vigilance to ensure that the challenges that can emerge along the way are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1627	It must be allowed to ask whether the representative Hoksrud is fully in line with the hour when he says in his post now that the case rapporteur does not want to talk about the letters in the case and the recordings that have come. In my main post I was talking about radiation, I was talking about the enquiry from the Red Cross, and I was talking about Asker and Bærum Fire Corps Association. Then it is that in a five-minute post of case rapporteur, at least the undersigned believes that one must try to give an overall perspective and an overall picture of the matter, not just stand and frame up all the letters and input that have come. They are mentioned in my article. I also mentioned KS. They're going to be involved in the further process, and I've also underlined that several times. Fine with criticism, but then it should be on a slightly more factual basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1636	I think it might be necessary to take the emergency net a little bit down on the ground again. Let me conclude by saying, on behalf of the Progress Party, that Norway needs a good Emergency Network. That's what I started by saying in my post. As others have pointed out, this is a project that has been going on for many years. What we know from many years of the Emergency Network project is that it has become a significant increase in costs. It can still be, and that's part of our concern, which we've tried to express. So it's quality assured, but it's an uncertainty about the economic conditions of 0.75 billion. kr – significant. We've been trying to express that we're sharing concerns that's gone into 12. - Yes, even in 13. – hour to the Transport Committee. It is true, as my colleague, the representative Hoksrud, said, that some of the recordings that have been made actually came after the vote was taken. There are views from users in the first line, but not just. There are also recordings from the rather large organisation KS, which also recorded in 12 and 13 hours a concern that is still there, that there are large bills coming to the municipal sector – a municipal sector in which many municipalities are still struggling with difficult and tight finances. There's a reason to be serious, and we've tried to point that out. We're for the project, but we're focusing on getting the input that's made in both 12 and 13 hours. We focus one of those recordings so significantly that we have our own proposal on the municipal sector, and that's the reason. But we're for the project. Now that it has become as it has become, we are in favour of Norway having a good and well-functioning Emergency network. We hope so. I notice that several times the Council of State has spoken, the more clearly he has become aware that there are major challenges to implementation. Everything is not 17 May, everything is not flaglifting, but there are significant challenges related to practical implementation, and the challenges we hope the government will take seriously, the responsible state council will take seriously, and the responsible state agency will take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7, 8 and 9 shall be dealt with together – and deemed adopted. [[Fotation, see page 4608]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1694	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Harald T. Nesvik, and he has a speaking time of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1707	The clock started to go a little early, so I have another 15 seconds. First of all, I will be allowed to address those proposals where the Progress Party either stands alone or with others. This applies to proposals contained in the various settings. Secondly, I would just like to make a brief comment on document 8:89 S, for which I am also the rapporteur-in-chief. With regard to the proposals of the Christian People's Party relating to guidelines for active state ownership, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, is in favour of attaching the Protocol. It is also shown that the issues raised in this proposal have been reviewed and addressed in the context of the general remarks in the setting of the ownership message, St.meld. No 13 for 2010–2011. The state is and will be a very important actor in Norwegian travel life, in terms of both direct and indirect ownership of the companies that the State either owns alone or together with others. This is, of course, in addition to the most important task that the state has in the field of industrial policy, namely to provide good and competitive framework conditions, so that these companies can always face the ever-increasing competition we see from other countries. It is very important for the State to be able to distinguish in a good way its roles in these different areas – this being because it should not be possible to create distortions of competition in cases where it is the indirect or direct owner of a company which is in competition with other privately owned enterprises in the same industry. Some examples of this can also be mentioned. In this connection, we can mention Cermaq ASA, where the state owns 43.54 pst. in a breeding company, which in addition is a fish feed producer. This company competes with other companies in the same industry both in Norway and abroad. Other examples are that part of the activity of the Post which is not monopolistic, i.e. activities other than letters less than 50 grams where they compete in a market where others, for example: industries related to advertising distribution, etc., are in such a competitive situation. Furthermore, we can mention the development of property in Entra, Mesta and others. It is precisely these issues as well as the fact that the state is such a significant owner in Norwegian business, which makes it apparent that the government reports to the country’s top elected body on how an intention to exercise state ownership in the best possible way. In fact, the state's holding is one third of all ownership on the stock exchange. We're talking about $600 billion. kr, so it's significant. After all, the government is responsible for exercising and managing state ownership under the Constitutional at all times. I would like to pay tribute to the committee which, within a relatively short period of time, has delivered the position we are now considering. It has been very hectic considering how late the message arrived, in the light of a wish that it would be completed in the summer. But this has been very good. The individual batches have been shown in a proper and thorough manner. All the lots demonstrate through the submission that it is important that the state ownership of an administrator is done in a good and professional manner. There is also an overall committee that indicates that the State should also act as an active and strategic owner, even though this is expressed through different ways of writing it. However, it is a fact that the political divisions are also evident when one begins to enter into the exercise of ownership itself. Also, in terms of governance, which companies the state must own, etc., it is quite clear that there are significant political divisions. These differences will certainly explain the individual batches in an excellent way even in their respective articles. I'm going to concentrate on a lot of what's the Progress Party's policy, and then I expect others to take their stand clearly. I want to give the Council of State credit for the way in which the communication is structured, which in a very good way makes it clear how the government in the future intends to exercise ownership in many companies, not least through what the government refers to as the government's expectations of these companies in a number of ways. However, how they intend to follow this up in practice, and to what extent, there is less clarity about it. It is also very positive that one has chosen to continue the principle underlying the previous ownership notification, St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, where one categorized the companies into four different categories, according to the objectives of the individual companies. These categories are the following: Category 1 are companies with commercial objectives. Examples include Argentum Funding Investments, Baneservice, Cermaq, Entra Eiendom, Flytoget etc. Category 2, which are companies with commercial objectives and national anchoring of head office functions, may, for example: be Aker Holding, DnB NOR, Kongsberg Gruppe, Nammo etc. Category 3 are companies with business objectives and other specific objectives: Export finance, Electronic Chart Centre, Municipal Bank, NSB etc. The fourth and last category are companies with sectoral policy objectives, and here a whole lot can be mentioned: Enova, Gassco, Gassnova, etc. The notification also explains how ownership has been allocated between different departments. In this context, the Progress Party considers that it should propose a significant change in this structure if it is to have a good, effective and professional exercise of State ownership in the future. I now want to take some of the more specific parts of the message that the Progress Party believes it is important that the government intervenes as quickly as possible. Furthermore, if there is time, I will also go into part of the individual companies where changes are proposed. Ownership management is divided into 11 departments if the Ministry of Finance is also included, which has a significant responsibility. It is not possible that the interests of all these companies, and not least the interests of the State and the taxpayers, can be properly and properly managed if the fragmented ownership management system is in place in the department today. It is important to take on board the fact that there is an increasing level of competition and major challenges. There is much more international competition also in those areas where the country has its involvement. It is therefore important to be able to recruit the good people in order to do this properly. Because when it comes to entering and consulting the processes, the requirements for companies, members of the board, the general meeting, etc., it is important to have good competence and governance. Therefore, it is quite obvious to the Progress Party that we need to get a collection of these companies into the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Progress Party has put forward a concrete proposal, which has been included in the suspension, that, in particular for the Category 1 to 3 companies, work must be undertaken to transfer ownership there and ensure that it is brought together in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. But also part of the category 4 companies have to make sure to enter there. It is not a problem that, although the ownership exercise itself has been placed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, it will be able to continue its sectoral follow-up in the same way, but not through the exercise of ownership. This is important, because it is not enough, even if the Council of State, through the notification, declares that it wishes to build up the competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in order to improve ownership. It's positive, but you should take a step further. It is mentioned in the communication, also related to the framework of state ownership management, that it is suggested that we have a wish that the ownership of the state should lie approximately as today, as at today's level. You can actually show that you can go in and out of different types of companies, so that it's not necessarily the ownership we have today, which is going to be in the future. It's positive that the Council of State does. But that's no reason to say that this is the level we should be at. Some of us believe that the level may be significantly below, while there may also be a situation in the future, related to the future financial crisis or other challenges, where it might be timely to ask questions about whether it should actually be bigger in some areas. In the case of ownership management principles, this must be justified, and this has also been stated by the entire Committee through various types of comments. When you start to read the notice more thoroughly, you can start wondering whether you intend to base what is associated with exercising ownership, either through the Share Act or other laws. Because you put a lot of leads into different areas for what you're expecting in these fields. And here you're going to get into a number of different areas. I then find reason to ask questions as to whether the overall assessment has been taken in this case. Why should the state own, and what is the goal of ownership? Yes, it is quite clear that here there are considerable differences between the current government and the Progress Party. The progress party wants to sell itself into a number of companies, or we want to give the government a power to sell it down. Then you get to spend the time that's going on, because the Progress Party doesn't want you to sell off because the state needs the capital. That's not what's meant by this, but it's just to see if you can get others on the owner's side, whether there are things that the government is doing today, that the government doesn't need to do, and how we can increase our skills by taking other owners in. It may not be a wish in itself that it should be the State that owns it. It must be to ensure operation, secure services for the population and secure jobs that are the main objective. The Progress Party considers that it is important that Norway not only becomes a branch country. So it's important to be inside the owner's side of some strategic companies. But there's a significant difference between being inside as 100 pst.-Owner and 67 pst.-Owner, or that you can actually sell yourself down, so that others can get to. I also notice that in a debate that the Business Committee had held as late as yesterday, related to the properties of Statskog, some were shaken by the chairman of the committee that the Progress Party would sell the part of Stateskog's properties that could be run commercially. But it's just going to be missing that if there's anyone else who can get in and run, they're going to have the opportunity. It is not a state task as a matter of principle to operate a forest. You have to run it in cases where others are not interested or want to be involved. In the case of the seed fund situation in Norway, the cereal funds are running out of money. It is important to use part of the capital that can be released through sales or other means to rebuild these seed funds and venture funds, because it is precisely through being able to spend money in such a way as to create new growth, create new businesses, create new businesses around the district. It's very important to keep in place. I see that the time that usually goes from one when one is engaged in a matter, and I will certainly come back later in the debate. But it must not be that this debate is now going on in terms of how much you are going to sell down or not. Now it's important that we put the principles for how we want to deal with this. And: Yes, the Advance Party will sell out significantly more than the government puts up in this message. But if you go back historically and look at the sales that, among other things, The Labour Party has been involved in the years in which they have been in power, so there is a significantly higher total amount than the Progress Party proposes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1760	There the representative also got the 5 seconds – or was it 15?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1763	That was 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1768	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1771	The debate on what the state should own and how the state should own is, of course, an important debate. It is about how ownership can take into account opportunities to create values in the future, how to further develop jobs, further develop production methods and strengthen businesses. It is about opportunities to bring in new knowledge, and it is not least about facilitating research and developing opportunities for future value creation. All of this is within the framework of state ownership. But it's also about, in many contexts, how we will manage and further develop businesses and companies that are important tools in our social model and in our welfare production. Historically, state ownership has meant an enormous amount to industrial development in Norway, and the state has shown that it is involved in the development that is actually taking place in society. That's the way it is today, and that should be the way it should be in the future. Report. St. 13 on active State ownership is a further development of how the State should exercise its ownership – on expectations and requirements of the companies owned by the State either in whole or in part. It's a good model, the model chosen to communicate what the Storting places on the government, which is the one that actually exercises ownership. We are now providing important guidance on how to exercise ownership in order to achieve the goals set for the different companies. And there are dividing lines in the setting -- there are significant dividing lines in the setting -- there's not just a little difference, there's a big difference between the entry of ownership. The leadership pay problem is one part. I have come to realize that a total accumulation in the past, not least by reading the positions of the Control Committee, would limit the wage developments of the state companies. Through this setting, both the Right Party and the Advance Party leave that principle and leave entirely to the board to determine the remuneration of directors according to the leaders they want. Similarly, through the setting, you want to develop the values further. That's the majority's basis: creating more values in the future. The right hand party and the Progress Party show through the recommendation that they want the state to move towards being a financial owner, where the opinions about the companies are more diffuse, and where the main objective is sales. There are great values that the Right Party and the Advance Party will sell – values that today yield good returns to society, returns used for schools, care for the elderly and health. Yes, we need the returns from the companies. Between 2005 and 2011, dividends of 151 billion were received by the country. kr. There's a lot of school, there's a lot of care for the elderly, and there's a lot of health. That's what both the Right Party and the Advance Party want to privatize. They want to remove the country's income opportunities by being so clear on sales. It's not like there are public holdings that dominate Oslo Børs. On the contrary, public ownership has been reduced in the period from 2003 to 2010, and it is the foreign capital that has strengthened at Oslo Exchange in the same period. That's also what evolution shows. The last two major industrial sales took place via Hydro Polymers and Borealis, which were sold to England, and now Orkla's sales of Elkem to China. There is a lot of evidence that it will also continue in the future when selling state values and companies. Most likely, the sale of the Right Party and the Advance Party will propose from the hands of the Norwegian State, end up at the hands of the Chinese State in one way or another. They're eager buyers, and there's nothing to suggest that there's private Norwegian capital that will go in and buy the large values that one might want to exchange. So here, there's a clear difference in ownership policy. But then I'm a little surprised that those who are most eager to sell are actually the most restrictive when the government comes to the Stortinget and asks for the authority to change ownership of some companies, possibly sales. I think that's a little weird. That they don't want to participate in the issue mandates is quite natural, because they don't want to develop the companies, they just want to limit state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1792	Let me first give a tribute to the rapporteur-in-chief Nesvik for well-implemented work. I also want to give a tribute to the Council of State for a message where it is very good about how we should govern state ownership. I also think it's going to be pretty much left of it also if you had followed the Right proposal in this case, and I don't think everything would end up in China. The important thing is how we handle ownership. Now I want to stress the government's message here that the state, like private owners, must have a more dynamic approach to which companies it needs to own. This is a new approach, including how much it is right to own in the individual phases of the company’s development. There I quite agree with the premise, but something disagrees with the conclusion. I can't see that it follows from such reasoning that the state's ownership, regardless of dynamics, should be kept at a fixed level without saying anything about which measures and which companies to go into. Then it doesn't get much of a dynamic, but more of a static dogmatic character. We'll draw more into the practical assessments of the companies. If you don't, it'll be like maintaining a level, and politicians will have to find something to fill up with at all times, and it's the politicians who have to find the strategic investment. I'll warn you against that. So the message, several places, says that the principles of ownership and good ownership are still to be taken into account – I am very pleased – and that the sharing of responsibilities between the board and the administration of owners is strongly emphasised in the message. That's something I can't get underlined enough. I hope that we will also see it in practice, and that it will be a good instrument and tool for the Council of State and the Ministry of Ownership. The right considers that the main problem in Norwegian business is too low private ownership. It is clear that the size of state ownership is important if one acknowledges one too weak private ownership. Not least through the partial privatisation of Statoil, increased private ownership – as happened – contributes to increased value creation, increased market transparency and improved investment interest, and creates more competition. It is this that is our goal for as many companies as possible where we propose to reduce ownership, not to export ownership to China. I would therefore like to put to death the misunderstanding which, in particular, the chairman of the committee is trying to spread, that we are dramatically reducing state ownership. But we're busy with another balance sheet. There is nothing in our proposals that is motivating the position that our important, large national company should have a ownership that makes them anchored with its head office and its activities in Norway. It is important for Norway as an industrial nation, and it has significant spin-off effects for other industries and the emergence of other industries. That's why, of course, we support the proposals that come into the proposition if what the government now wants to sell. In addition, our sales proposals at the moment are not another ordinary breeding company in international and national competition, or a company that places asphalt, maintains and builds roads in competition with many others. In addition to that, we want to eventually reduce the state's ownership of Statoil from 67 p.m. to 51 pst. It would hardly mean any exports to China. But it will further strengthen the company's integrity and competitiveness, both at home and internationally. Experience has shown that partial privatisation has been beneficial to the company. If the committee chairman of Aasland's reasoning is correct, he has to want to buy up to 100 pst. I can't understand anything else. In the case of Statkraft, perhaps the most important company the state owns, we believe that in the future a division can be envisaged, where risky activities, perhaps especially those that occur abroad, can be distinguished from the Norwegian hydropower resources, and that that part can be facilitated for private ownership. It can add capital to the company, it can add ownership skills, which is otherwise mentioned in the notification as a general defect in the department – I come back to it – and it can increase the value creation and the company's values, as we have seen before, in addition to a risk reduction. But we do not propose it. We have noted this. We'll see it further ahead. In terms of our reductions in ownership, we constantly have a pragmatic and practical approach to it. For this reason, we have emphasised several points that sales should take place gradually, when they are business-economically correct, adapted to economic conditions, market conditions, the financial position of the company, etc. In its communication, the Government proposes to increase the department's competence in ownership matters. It is impossible to believe that it is right without knowing the details of the competence you now possess, or for that matter does not possess. That is why I take this information for information, but I would like to remind you that the distinction between the responsibilities of the board and their powers and the owners can be difficult. I believe it is the task of the board to provide what is presented in the communication as an ‘analytical follow-up’ to the company’s situation and ‘to develop clearer strategic views on the development of companies’, which the ministry is expected to do. It may be right for the owners to obtain such information, yes. But what's going to be important here is how to use it, that the board has its own role, and that you don't get any mix-ups. With such expectations, the board also has to do its job in order to reach the level of ambition expressed to the board in several places. I think that management remuneration, which Terje Aasland had in mind, is illustrative in such a context. We are too moderate wages, both for managers and others, but I assume that the government also believes it is the responsibility of the board to recruit the best managers to achieve the high ambitions of the company. In that case, they must not be prevented by objections which prevent them from reaching the ambitions. I have nothing against the rules, but in that case they must be kept, and we have seen that it has been difficult. With regard to the organisation of ownership, the Communication strongly argues to bring this together even more in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, but without concluding. We don't. We believe that any government here must find the most appropriate form of organization without any standard schematic arrangements. So finally some words as the case rapporteur for the Prop setting. 83 S. We agree with the government that companies that have only business objectives and operate in competitive markets and do not have national strategic importance can be disposed of, as has now been decided upon in several companies. With regard to the proposal for powers of capital extensions, it has always been considered that the Storting has the real decision in decisions that will change the country’s involvement where it is an exclusive shareholder. The same has been established for joint companies. Therefore, I find the proposal of general powers for equity extensions strange in the light of the practice that has taken place. It's also unfortunate, I think, that companies are named by the notification of capital needs without the reasons being known in the market. The chairperson of the Committee, who criticises this position in isolation, has himself been at the head of the committee in order to have such acts of authority rapidly reviewed within the Committee with due process. I believe that Stortinget has been able to adapt to the modern world as well as the requirements that are available for efficiency to get matters through. But I would like to stress that this is a formal disagreement. At least on our part, there is no disagreement – with capital needs and projects, concretely in both the Yara and Kongsberg Group, we are absolutely in order to add capital. But we think the Storting should treat this the way it has done before. I think that's right. Finally, I take up the good suggestions that the Right has.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1826	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1829	The state ownership has always had and will still have an important role to play in the development of Norwegian industry and business. Through state ownership of natural resources, values have benefited the community. But not enough: through state ownership, in addition to values that have benefited the community, we have laid the foundation for industrial development, and we have, in fact, laid the foundation for industrial development on a private basis. So the contradiction between public and private business development that the right-hand side sometimes add up to is proven to be incorrect. It is very often the state ownership that triggers private business. The best example of that is probably in the oil sector. The ownership we have in the oil sector has in many ways led us in Norway to have the wealth we have today. In addition, State ownership in the oil sector has acquired, let us say, 100 000 jobs in the supply industry, which is mainly a private industry. So here we see a blatant example of the state-owned, conscious, national ownership participating in a conscious development of the private industrial conglomerate in Norwegian society, and that is something we're going to include in the debate further. When it comes to state ownership, I would like to point out that the Progress Party has a long tradition of misappropriation when it comes to private and public ownership. I can only take as an example Carl I. Hagen, who in 1975 suggested selling the jewel of the Norwegian oil billions, Statfjord, for 10 billion. kr. If the Progress Party had made a success of its policy in 1975, it is not only that we had a much smaller oil fund, but we also had a much smaller supplier industry. So when we look at history as well. The party of progress has, and what a misstep the party has done historically – the will to sell out the most important steps we have in society, both for the community to get values, and for the construction of Norwegian business – we must also bear in mind when we look at what the Progress Party and the Right are proposing to sell down today. But the oil age may end in two to three decades. Then it's important to have others to bet on. Therefore, SV is very happy that the message announces that we will get a new round of seed funds. At its national meeting, SV raised the need to invest in new seed funds, and now we have it in place through the message and what the government is now being asked to continue. We're very concerned that now that we've had success with the historical state ownership, it's not given that it's just the historical ownership we're going to bet on in the future. A bet on seed funds is one of the ways to create the business life of the future. So we're glad that there's a lot of support for it. Then it's like the state ownership is very much operating in a global economy. As a result, state companies very often operate in countries with weak or lacking democracy, with weak or lacking developed legal systems and tax systems. Therefore, it is very positive that this message may place greater emphasis on the behaviour and social responsibility of state ownership when working in developing countries and in a global context. In this way, state ownership can contribute to setting the norm also for other ownership in such relationships. Then what the message attaches great importance to, the ILO's core conventions and the United Nations Global Compact, is very important. Then we are very pleased that there is a strong focus on country-by-country reporting in the message. Land-by-country reporting is a system that allows countries that have resources to have a reasonable share of the value creation, and it commits itself to preventing corruption. For this reason, we are very pleased that a joint committee calls on the government to work actively also in the future to improve the country-by-country reporting system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1844	The central party considers it to be an extremely important principle that the ownership notification ensures that the State should be an active, long-term and not least predictable owner of key Norwegian companies. Through ownership, the country shall contribute to the good and stable development of the economy in the country. The Centre Party considers it important to ensure public ownership and control of roads, electricity lines, hydropower, rail and telecommunications networks in order to ensure the future development and proper operation of the necessary infrastructure. We want the state to be an active owner, and believe that we currently have a wide portfolio of ownership in different sectors. A diversity of ownership, both private and state ownership and national and international ownership, is important for value creation, access to capital and competence. A national ownership helps to ensure that enterprises have head offices and research activities in Norway. Private ownership is strengthened through good and predictable framework conditions for private activities and through an active and responsible industrial policy and economic policy. In the context of the new ownership announcement, the Central Party has focused on the need for state companies to take on stronger environmental and social responsibility, and what is now available shows that we have had an impact on many of our basic attitudes. We are committed to creating values even where values originate, and by that we believe that state-owned enterprises that manage national natural resources have a special responsibility to contribute to job creation locally. State power and Statoil are two good examples of state companies in the energy sector that need to contribute to this. A key objective of the ownership of Statoil is to ensure the long-term and safe use and return of the company’s oil and gas resources. Furthermore, the Centre Party is committed to Statoil as a leading energy company also having activities and developments in renewable energy. The central party sees it as very important that state-owned infrastructure companies contribute to the further development of the country. Telenor and Statnett have an important social responsibility for the further development of telecommunications networks, broadband and electricity networks in Norway. Good communications are important for value creation and housing throughout the country. In this context, it is important to note that one of the objectives of the State’s ownership of SAS is to promote a good and commercial air route offer for Norwegian domestic air travellers, and that oncoming here plays an important role. Therefore, a change in the ownership of SAS in the future must take into account the important role of Onderøe in covering domestic air routes. The central party believes that it is essential for the development of Norwegian business to facilitate capital access to new and existing businesses on which it would be strategically right to invest in the future. This is also underlined in the comments in the case. The evaluation carried out by the Seed Funds shows a clear link between the location of management environments and the environments exploiting seed capital. It is therefore essential to ensure that seed capital meets the needs of the whole country through the establishment of national seed funds. The centre party believes that it was absolutely necessary that the guidelines for management pay now be tightened, and that at the same time we are tightening up pension benefits and what can be paid in return. More stringent reporting requirements will be established for whole state companies, and companies are also expected to follow these guidelines. Here we have seen a clear need to address the situation. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the new ownership message shows an important part of the offensive business policy pursued by this red-green government. This is not about purely maximum economic profits in the shortest possible time, but about long-term investments to build up businesses, provide natural resources, local value creation and infrastructure construction across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1873	The Christian People's Party believes that the extent of state ownership should be maintained at about the same level as today. Therefore, we believe that there are no good reasons for a comprehensive sale or purchase beyond what results from a dynamic and active state ownership. This was also our position when dealing with the previous ownership notification in 2007. The Christian People's Party believes that a state ownership should be strategic and dynamic. It has many positive ring-effects for business as a whole. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has made a proposal for its own big message that takes into account how private and state ownership can mutually strengthen one another. The development of state ownership has shown that in the cases where private investors are involved, this has strengthened the company. Such an owner configuration provides stability and developmental possibilities. State ownership is a strong – often crucial – contribution to stability on the part of the owner. By bringing in private capital, one of the necessary dynamics provides good opportunities for the positive development of the company. Many privatised companies have achieved good profitability and returns. Such a model, with companies operating according to business-economic principles and with the state as a long-term owner, provides a good financial impact for shareholders, employees and society as a whole. Such a ownership model has worked very well in both Telenor, Statoil, Yara and Norsk Hydro. This model can be used for the benefit of several companies. That's why we're opening up a government sale in Mesta. This is a new company where, in our opinion, such a model can have a positive impact on the company's development. Active state ownership is also a possible means of bringing about innovation and necessary structural changes. Examples of successful structural changes are several, e.g. Norsk Hydro and Kongsberg Waffenfabrik. The state ownership of Norway is extensive and requires a conscious view of how ownership should be managed. The ownership notification is full of expectations from the state as owner. This applies both in relation to income requirements and to the fulfilment of social responsibility. The Christian People's Party believes that the state expects a lot, but requires little. Active social responsibility has become a fashion issue, which is illustrated by the 192000 matches of Google. There is something about all companies that are professionally run. This also applies to the communication of ownership, where social responsibility has been given a great deal of attention. Social responsibility means setting higher objectives than what is required by laws and regulations. Active social responsibility must be accompanied by commitments and actions. Social responsibility is not just something that suits itself; it pays off too. A business that takes its social responsibility seriously can also achieve increased profitability or other benefits. This is also recognised in business. Therefore, the NHO has developed an advisor entitled ‘It’s about trust’. Examples of positive effects of taking social responsibility seriously are cited. In addition to reducing costs resulting from resource and energy savings, it may also improve the company's reputation. Better reputation can have a positive impact both on customer satisfaction and on attracting skilled and motivated employees, to mention something. We are pleased to note that the government has joined our comments on social responsibility. The Christian People's Party believes that the state must pursue an active ownership policy in which clear expectations are formulated for the governments with high ambitions for the development of companies and clearer expectations for the companies regarding the follow-up of social responsibility. We want to go beyond the government in this area. The law provides an action room for active ownership management by the state that has not been exploited. Sustainable development strategies and climate policy objectives should be much more closely linked to corporate social responsibility and state ownership. Ethical guidelines have been developed for the State pension fund abroad. The Christian People's Party believes that such guidelines for the development of sustainability and social responsibility for the state's ownership portfolio should also be established. They must contain clear guidelines on what the State that owns can and should do if the activities of a company do not comply with national sustainability strategy in areas such as climate, environment and nature management. The options may then be to intervene as part of an active ownership or to sell out and change the portfolio composition of state ownership. Social responsibility needs to be clarified further, and we have therefore made a separate proposal on this which will be discussed later today. The aim of this proposal is to ensure sustainable ownership both from an environmental and economic perspective. But then the state must use the ownership dialogue to ensure that companies take their social responsibility seriously. It is both socially and economically profitable. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the vote on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1907	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1910	Debates on public or state ownership are important, and they show fundamental and ideological distinctions between the parties. However, in real policy, the dividing lines are often significantly smaller. There is no doubt that public ownership in the business community easily creates a mix of roles and democratic problems. Public ownership should therefore, in the opinion of the Left, be limited to vital societal considerations, such as key competences, basic infrastructure and control of energy and natural resources. The public holding in such a company shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve that purpose. In some specific cases, the State or the public should be the sole owner. Most often, however, it is sufficient to maintain ownership of 1/3 to ensure head office functions and national competence in key industries, or 2/3, to prevent other minority shareholders from blocking decisions of national interest. Norwegian companies need good owners who provide financial resources, networks, market access and competences. The left will primarily ensure Norwegian ownership of the business sector by strengthening the private spread of ownership. This should be done through fiscal intervention, but also by a greater proportion of private ownership in several state companies. For the Left, a state ownership is not a goal in itself. In most cases, the interests of the Community will be protected at least as well by the use of laws, framework conditions and control authorities as by unilateral ownership. The country that owns is often tied up with strong special interests and blends roles as owner, shape by framework conditions and controller. What is good for the large state-owned companies is not necessarily good for Norway. A typical example is the lack of power in the case of Statoil's oil sand project in Canada. We've heard a lot of praise about state ownership, so a little wormwood has to be tolerated in this room. An example of failed state ownership is the country's involvement in Aker Holding. Here, as the Left sees it, a very bad agreement was reached on behalf of Norwegian citizens. Not only was it paid too high a price, but they tied themselves without any conditions to own shares for at least 10 years. The State bought shares at a price of NOK 145.60 in a company that was valued at NOK 109.10 at the end of the stock exchange yesterday, i.e. a loss of 25 p.m., or approximately NOK 850,000 each day since the agreement was concluded four years ago. It must be called a bad deal. While the Swedish joint owners had agreements on right-wing rights at a favourable price, which they have wisely used, we are literally sitting with the beard in the mailbox. The left is therefore promoting proposals in the Chamber today that the government should take the initiative to renegotiate the Aker ASA ownership agreement with the intention of selling itself entirely out of the company as a matter of urgency. Primarily, the current Minister of Economic Affairs Giske has a much less dogmatic relationship with state ownership than his predecessors and the representatives of the government parties here in the Chamber, who one year ago thought it was a large-scale privatisation experiment to sell out of SAS, Secora and Entra, as the opposition would, and so the Council of State asks us for authority today. I have noticed, however, that the Council of State, Giske, has announced that it will use the money you would have to receive from the sale of these companies to increase the state ownership of other companies. I think that's a bad idea. I also do not share the claim that what we receive from sales income otherwise had to be invested in the rest of the world through the State pension fund. The left considers that the funds that had to be recovered from sales in individual companies should be used to strengthen the Research Fund as a whole. It is a targeted investment in the future and in a new Norwegian business life without causing an upliftment of the economy. The left is therefore promoting proposals to this effect in the Chamber today. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and I would like to point out that the Left vote in favour of proposal No. 1, 3, 5–16, 20, 34 and 35 of the Innst. 392 S. We agree with the minority on proposal No. 1 in the Input. 374 S, to liquidate the state ownership of Entra Eiendom AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1933	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1936	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the Committee for the extensive work that has been done on the presentation of a new large-scale communication on state ownership and the corresponding capitalisation proposal for the framework for the management of ownership in individual companies and its treatment in the Stortinget. These were promoted for Stortinget on 1 April. The significant political commitment involving state ownership is also demonstrated by the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hemdal and Knut Arild Hareide. The Government has provided a large-scale notification of state ownership that justifies the state’s ownership, the discussion of what the State should own and how the State should exercise its ownership. A review of these issues should, in my view, be done at regular intervals, because the conditions for state ownership are evolving steadily. Many Norwegian companies are becoming increasingly international and are subject to tougher competition in a global business and technological developments are occurring faster than in the past. The requirements for corporate social responsibility are strengthened. As the Committee also refers to in its position, we have been through an international financial crisis affecting companies in a number of areas. All of this means that the ownership role and ownership exercise must also be continuously developed. The state manages large values on behalf of society. It results in responsibility for the best possible exercise of ownership. At the end of 2010, the values of the country's commercial ownership were approximately 600 billion. kr. For example, the government owns about a third of the values of Oslo Exchange. I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of political consensus on the basic principles of state ownership policy, including the division of roles between the owner and the board, as demonstrated by company law. This gives predictability to the companies and contributes to securing the values of the country over time. That being said, there is a clear ideological distinction between the parties in this hall in terms of the extent of state ownership and the ambitions of state ownership. The government believes that state ownership is important in a broader industrial policy perspective, by contributing significantly to the development of a competitive and sustainable Norwegian business. This is both linked to the importance of ensuring national anchoring of key key companies, and to the fact that state companies are major and important actors in research, innovation and development of competences, thus contributing to driving technology development in the future. Therefore, the government wants to maintain the extent of state ownership at about the current level, and we want to maintain the country's ownership of important companies such as: Statoil, Telenor and Statkraft. It does not, however, imply that the State should have exactly the same holding in all companies for the future. I believe that we must have a pragmatic relationship with this. We must always assess whether the state is a good owner of a company. We must be willing to sell ourselves down even if there are other owners who can contribute to a better development of a company, or there are other reasons that make government ownership no longer relevant. In this respect, the government has requested a mandate from the Stortinget to reduce its ownership of Entra Eiendom AS, SAS AB and Secora AS in order to effectively contribute to the establishment of good industrial solutions for these companies. I record that the government has support from the opposition in this respect. And let me say it like this: the state has no hurry with these sales. We need to carry out a good process, and we want to find owner constellations that ensure that the values of the company are taken care of, and that the operations and jobs are also handled in a good way. In the case of Entra Property specifically, a review of the property portfolio is also necessary to ensure that any functional building on a commercial basis is transferred to State Building, so that it is the purely commercial part that goes out. Both the Right and the Advance Party are in favour of significant State sales in addition to the three companies proposed by the Government. I think it's a short-term idea. It is that the Norwegian State, compared with others, is in a very sound financial situation, and we do not have to sell state activities for public finances at all. Alternative positioning in the sale of state holdings in strategic companies is property positions through the State pension fund abroad, given that we want a responsible budgetary policy in the form of the rule of action, which all in this room outside the Progress Party have joined. There may be a basis for discussing the appropriateness of the State to sell strategic ownership positions in Norwegian companies in order to invest the funds abroad and in competitors of Norwegian companies. Nor can we transfer money from the sale of this ownership to the Research Fund. The Research Fund has a different role in the State budget. It contributes to operational appropriations year by year, so it usually enters into budget management and falls under the rule of action. So there is no quick fix on research appropriations to take capital from ownership to ownership. But it is quite possible, as the government has done in recent years, to increase research budgets vigorously in an ordinary way through the state budget. The government is concerned with private ownership and that this is also provided with good framework conditions in Norwegian business. However, when proposing as significant sales as the Progress Party and the Right do, there is reason to point out that there will be no private capital in Norway that has the capacity to raise its share in such a magnitude. This will certainly lead to these companies and these holdings being sold to non-resident owner-occupiers, and will eventually lose their Norwegian anchoring. Such a strong sale is also a strong deflagration of the companies. The government believes it is right to establish new state ownership in new companies if we consider that the state can be a good owner. We've said that there are three ways this is going to happen. We want to increase the access to capital to nationwide seed funds. We will increase the capital of Investinor, and we will also contribute capital to the companies that we already own, if it is commercially interesting and after an analysis shows that it will result in increased value creation and returns. I would like to stress that, as a general rule, new state ownership in the future must take place on a commercial basis, in conjunction with private investors where appropriate. I heard the speaker from the Right talking about Statkraft. It's like when Statkraft now, for example. invest abroad, often with private partners, so that we get an additional assessment of the profitability of these projects. With regard to the concrete organisation of new funds, different solutions are outlined in the Committee configuration, including: making a fund-in-fund structure. We will consider how to create the new funds. It is important to gain experience from the funds that we already have, so that we ensure that we channel the money where there is the most need, and where the funds contribute the most. In terms of a fund-in-fund structure, we already have Argentum. In the seed phase, there are few funds, and those active are almost exclusively funds with public participation, although it also triggers a lot of private capital. We are now considering different options for organising a new seed scheme and will come back to Stortinget with a proposal once that review has been completed. It is an important point that ownership matters are dealt with quickly and efficiently. Experience may be challenging in some cases, including: when the Storting is not collected. That is why we are asking for authorisation to participate in any limited equity extensions in Yara and Kongsberg Group. With such a power, we will be able to effectively maintain the State’s ownership interest if there is a need to implement a limited increase in equity rapidly. Business opportunities may also arise in months from mid-June to the beginning of October and rapid response may be required. That is why I think this is unproblematic, even though the ideal should of course be the Right Party and the Progress Party describes that one could go to the Stortinget with this. That's why I think it's a pity you couldn't get a unanimous vote on it, because it's also a matter that's been important to the two companies involved. The government wants this message to outline an active ownership policy. The state is often the largest owner of a company, even where we have less than 50 pst. ownership. It is therefore an additional responsibility of the State to exercise that ownership in a good way, to be a good partner for governance and governance. That is why we have announced that we need to strengthen ownership management. We need to be clear and predictable in our communication with the companies. We're going to have regular meetings with the companies. We have to be an impatient, positive owner that contributes to the development of value and growth in companies. I believe that over the years the state has built a very solid portfolio. We have a good reputation as an owner. No share tax can be detected in state companies. That's why I think it's right to continue a state ownership at today's level and to exercise it in a professional, active and long-term way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1975	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good review and, not least, for a good big message. My question to the Council of State in the first instance is linked to seed funds. The report says that one will return to a system of several nationwide seed funds. But there is little about the fact that the already established seed funds and other seed funds in Norway are running out of capital. I myself have had a meeting with the so-called district seed funds, the Ryan funds, which they have also been called. They express great concern, because it now turns out that they will run out of money for the projects they have been involved in, either in the course of the year or next year. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State ensure that the review notified is continued so that, at the latest, the State budget for next year can bring back new funds, but also in the context of restocking of existing funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1982	Our ambition is to get back to Stortinget with this as quickly as possible. At the same time, we know that experience from the seed funds that have been set up has been mixed. The seed funds, which came in the 1990s, have partially gone badly. There is a significant cleanup job that lies in some of them. Seed funds from the mid-2000s have improved. The nationwides have gone best. After all, our goal is to get new seed funds that contribute to as much corporate creation, development and value-added as possible, and that go well at the same time. It is the case that, at the end of the seventh year, industry must make profits rather than subsidies, and the cereal funds must contribute to profitable business development, not a subsidy for unprofitable business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1987	My next question is about Aker Solutions. Among other things, we have sees in the media that Swedish co-investors in the Aker system wanted to withdraw. They had a relatively good deal, which made it no problem for them to withdraw. They even had a guarantee that they could do that, without losing money on it. Thus, a similar agreement did not have the Norwegian State. This is very special, because one of the arguments referred to in the media about the importance of the Norwegian state being involved was that Swedish investors were also involved. So it turned out that these investors had the bay and both ends and could just stand out, and the Norwegian state is left. My question to the Council of State is this: Is the Council of State comfortable with the body of agreement that the State had in that connection, and is the Council of State tempted to enter into a similar agreement with other companies in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1992	I believe that we as a capital-rich state should have transparency in order to be able to go into later on also where we believe it is a commercial basis, and where it is necessary to ensure either the head office or strategically important industry or natural resources in Norwegian hands. I also record that when this was dealt with, the Progress Party was in favour of it and not least supported us in terms of the long-termity that was in the Aker involvement. We do not have a short-term profit horizon on this investment. This was not done to go in and out again with a quick win. On the contrary, it was to contribute to long-term industrial development. So we'll have to wait with the evaluation of the profitability of that project until we approach it in 2017 or around it. We have faith in the company. There are major structural changes in the company that we believe are very positive. This applies to thousands of jobs, not least in the region from which the representative comes, in which I believe we have helped to further develop a good ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e1999	In his criticism of our proposals to reduce state ownership, the Council of State says that this is short-sighted, and that it is unnecessary to do so, because we do not need the money. Now I don't remember anywhere arguing that we're doing this because we need money. We have argued that we believe it is good for the private ownership in Norway and that it is good for the companies. That leads me far to the question. At the moment, the Norwegian State owns 67 pst. of Statoil. Does the Council of State think it was short-sighted to sell down from 100 to 67?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2007	Now there is not a comprehensive study of what part-privatisation in Statoil has contributed, but a positive side is that you get co-investors who look at us in the cards, who look at the management of the cards, and who make demands for returns – you get more helpers by being impatient, positive owners in relation to the company's value development. The second is that our ownership in Statoil has been an incredibly good store – we make good money on it. I can't see that – if we had sold ourselves down to 51 pst. rather than retaining a holding somewhere in the '60s – the return, the increase in value, which we had obtained by relocating the money to the State pension fund abroad, had given us more in the cash than sitting in Statoil. On the contrary, we believe that this is a good placing of the money. It gives us a solid hand on the most important company in Norway, which is why we want to maintain the two-thirds-level ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2014	The Council of State referred to the Left's proposal to use sales money to strengthen the Research Fund, and he felt that this was not the case. According to my knowledge, it is good to promote a proposition on the use of selling money – just as we can create other funds, or strengthen Argentum, which is really a fund. I'd like to hear the Council's reflections about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2019	My point is that the Research Fund is not an external fund in relation to the State budget. After all, the research fund is a structure within the state budget, which means that you get a certain return from this fund to the cost side of research every year. And as a research minister, I have also participated several times in increasing this fund, which has given more money next year. But this can be handled quite normally in every state budget. We have some profits of 150-250 billion. If you want to spend more money on research, you can do so within the State budget — and give priority to it. We have increased the research appropriations by 60 pst. since we took over in 2005. You don't have to sell a single share in a single company to fund research. When you do it in the way suggested by the Left, you have to take it within the discussion about total use of money and about the rule of action. This is not to be overlooked, as the overall demand in Norway is driving the pressure — and again interest rates and exchange rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2026	I'll bring the case over to SAS. The Progress Party has made several proposals in this Chamber to give the government a power to sell or sell out of SAS, preferably in cooperation with the Scandinavian countries, namely Sweden and Denmark, so that a better price can be paid if it is a buyer. All these times this proposal has been almost ridiculed in this Chamber by the Council of State, but also by other red-green politicians, who have pointed out that we cannot do this, because nobody wants to buy it. We're not going back that long until this was one of the debates. Now, fortunately, there is a proposal from the Council of State itself, in Prop. 83 S, that one should be able to sell out of SAS if one finds an industrial solution – that is, we would give a power of attorney to the government. What's changed lately that makes this proposal come to the table now? Have a buyer signed up, or what is the government's starting point that now makes this more topical than when it was proposed in Stortinget the last time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2033	Let me first say that it would not please me to ridicule any proposal from the Progress Party, at least not in the main hall. So I don't think that's a proper description. And the discussions we have had in the past have been about yes or no to capital expansion in SAS, which, as the responsible owner, we believe has been absolutely necessary to maintain the values of the company, along with the joint owners we have. But then there has been a gradual maturation of that matter, among other things. in dialogue with our joint owners in Sweden and Denmark, and the government has come to realize that there is really no longer any strategic reason why we need to own an airline. It was once, when this was the foundation for ensuring a good flight offer in Norway, but we believe that both the market is functioning well enough, and that SAS needs to find a constellation with a larger partner so that you can be powerful and competitive in a very tough international market. So that's the background for the authority that we're now proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2040	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2043	I want to start with a clear message to all the colleagues of Billy in Høyanger, Hilmar in Årdal, Sten Roar on Karmøy, Eivind on Sunndalsøra, Tor Egil on Magnor, Rolf in Holmestrand and Odd on Raufoss. Yes, for today they see who is in debt with you to get investment plans in place in Norway, which means ownership is so much more than money placement and profit maximisation. The Labour Party imposes requirements that owners are in line with what private operators would have done. We want investment in Norway too, we want the head office function to be something more than a regular mailbox, and we see demands for the use of new technology. These are new and reinforced requirements in the new ownership message. This message concerns an unlikely number of workers: 179 857 added. There are almost 180 000 people who are actually affected by what we are adopting today. The right hand side and the right hand side of the Propulsion Party will sell out their privatization tool - right hand side will sell out 100 billion. kr, it will affect close to 35,000. And the Progress Party, in a known style, is up to 215 billion. NOK, which in turn will affect the addition of 72 000. Who is bid to buy values for such amounts? We know one who can and will, the Chinese state has both ability and will. New owners' seats don't necessarily have to be either dramatic or warning about flagging out or shutting down – so that's what they say – but I know from experience that in any case, when the signal comes, the state that has been a good, professional and long-term owner wants to withdraw. When we reduce our ownership, as the Right Party and the Advance Party want, the profits will, of course, also be greatly reduced. In the financial crisis year, dividends were only 20 billion. kr from part- and whole companies. But in the period 2005-2010, we've actually taken out 151.2 billion. kr – I repeat: 151,2 billion. kr. This is an incredible amount of money that benefits the community – that is, all of us. These are funds that the Right Party and the Advance Party would rather have to put in the bank account and in the wallet to private. Isn't it better, then, that Grandma gets a sick home place, that we added more teachers per student, that we can build more ways? Because that's exactly what this dividend is going to be. I would like to point out that it is important for the Labour Party that the State is a major owner of Norwegian business, in particular to ensure that a continued development of important companies and competences in Norway. The Labour Party will also ensure public ownership of our common energy resources and petroleum supplies. We just have to realize that when it's about moderation in the rents, we're not in the goal. That is why we are further streamlining this area through reporting requirements, transparency in wage fixing, and not least clear limits on the amount of gold pensions paid and the number of years spent. When you've been listening to the debate here today, there's a clear distinction in Norwegian politics, and I want to praise the Christian People's Party for not following the current blindly with the opposition. This government, with the Labour Party at its head, is pursuing an active ownership policy. We have tools in the toolbox. In consultation on business around the country, the repeater has a lack of risk capital. I was therefore very pleased when new seed products were notified, and that Investinor should both be evaluated and receive new funds. I expect this to come in quickly. In connection with the establishment of national seed funds that are warned, we focus on the need to have regional administrative competence in different parts of the country. We know it takes time to build up administrative skills, and it is important that we take care of the regional management environment we have spent time, energy and resources building up, the environment that has begun to work too fully, but is soon fully invested. Regional management of land-cover funds means that we cover the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2071	What has been essential for the Workers' Party to put in place the ownership notification is that it should be an active, long-term and professional owner who, through its ownership, will contribute to the profitability and industrial development of the companies. As a starting point, it is interesting to read more of the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, where they insinuate that the State is a poor owner, and in their eagerness to write that the State mixes the roles, must be ‘their responsibility conscious’, and that the government adds ‘more policy than store into its ownership management’. Then, like Ingrid Heggø, I would like to say that the Workers' Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party is involved with the position in important fundamental remarks that deal with the state's ownership policy. When you read the comments on the matter, there are no particularly great surprises about the Right and the Advance Party's industrial policy, that is. with one exception: right-wing environmental and climate policies. I'm basing this on the last few days' performances of several of the Right Representatives. The comment on this issue states – not unexpectedly – on the right-hand side without the Progress Party. The Right’s comment states that it is ‘decisive’ that industry has a focus on climate-friendly production in the future, and that it must of course also apply where the country has ownership. Yes, the Right also stresses that the development of new technologies that help reduce, clean and store greenhouse gas emissions and develop climate-neutral technologies in new areas needs to be intensified – I repeat: intensifying. Then it is also timely to ask how the Right, who believes that the State should not act as a private owner at all, can impose anything in the companies in which the State owns. For it is the rulers who must decide everything, according to the Right, not the owners. In the light of that comment, I am surprised to note that several large-scale representatives from the Right now believe that climate policy needs to be changed, so that, among other things, Alcoa can establish itself in Finnmark with gas from Snow White. Is it so to understand that the Right wants a new interpretation of the climate agreement and believes that it is wrong that the national emissions targets of the climate agreement should stand in the way of such an establishment? Unintelligible – here speaking, with all due respect, Right with at least two tongues. And, as the council said in the previous case, you can't be both for and against. I am not supposed to provoke any debate on aluminiumworks in Finnmark here today. There are many opinions about, that's not what this is about. This is about the trustworthiness of the Right in environmental and climate policy. I would also like to remind you that, through the work on the communication, the Right has had plenty of time to incorporate a new vision into environmental policy. In my view, this is completely incomprehensible – yes, in fact absolutely incredible. But for those who are going to try to understand what is Right's policy on climate and environmental issues, it's time to ask for a clarification from the Right. In the context of the ownership notification, the government also promotes Prop. 83 S for 2010–2011 for Stortinget, proposing powers to change the state’s ownership interest in individual companies. In this proposition it is proposed that a power of sale be given in particular. Secora. This company faces challenges of having adequate operation over time. It is therefore important to facilitate a good industrial solution for Secora, and to empower the Government today to find sustainable solutions for the company through the merger or sale of the State’s shares. I assume that the consideration of the employees is well taken care of, and that the company's connection to North Norway is emphasised. And then I want to say something, finally, about sales in SAS. There are many out there in the districts who are concerned about Repentance – what will happen. I am absolutely sure that the government will ensure the necessary social policy interests. A central point here must be to ensure that the supply of the short-range network in the rural areas is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2090	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2093	I feel privileged to participate in the work on two ownership messages. The first, which came in 2007, was a new crime work, which for the first time described state ownership in an overall context, set the level of ambition, why we had to own, sort the companies into different categories by purpose, etc. The message we are now addressing is based on the old one, but develops the state's ownership management, which is not supposed to be static, but needs to evolve in line with changing business assumptions and framework conditions nationally, but perhaps primarily globally. This message provides a more flexible and dynamic attitude to ownership management. We believe that in the Workers' Party is good. However, it is important to state that the ambition is that the country's share in Norwegian business should be around the level we have today. In some cases, it may be appropriate to reduce the country’s ownership of companies in order to obtain good industrial, robust and long-term solutions, in other cases to enter new companies and buy up. I am therefore pleased that we will now quickly put in place more seed and venture capital. This Communication further strengthens the follow-up to corporate social responsibility. It has to do with ethics and the environment. But we live in a globalised world, and there are now more concrete expectations in areas such as human rights, employee rights, decent working conditions and transparency about money flows and corruption. In the 1980s, we saw very clearly how different relatively equal companies could behave in terms of social responsibility – in one case with visible and dedicated management, which saw the challenges of society and took responsibility, in the second case with ownership and management with a distant relationship with the place where the business was located. Displaying social responsibility is important for the winding-up of companies, but to the most extent also during day-to-day operations. It is very important now that several of our companies operate under distant skies and in cultures that can be quite unknown and challenging to us. Then it is important that companies use the best practices in which the business is conducted, and in some cases, as I see it, go ahead in taking into account indigenous people's interests, ethics and the environment and local authorities. In this particular area, I believe that such behaviour builds up under a good reputation. It doesn't make it uncompetitive – rather on the contrary – and I think our companies are going to deal with these challenges in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2108	I think there is a need for a few clarifications here, especially after hearing the comments of the representative Lillian Hansen and the representative Ingrid Heggø. Firstly, I want to clarify the following for the representative Ingrid Heggø: she referred to some people who obviously work in the Hydro system. She referred to people both at Sunndalsøra and other places. The difference between the Advance Party and the Working Party related to Hydro is 0,26 pst. in the company. We don't own 50 pst today. or 60 pst. In Hydro, we own 34.26 pst. The Progress Party has proposed a sale down to 34 pst. That's interesting when you still have exactly the same opportunities under corporate law. This is very interesting. Furthermore, to the representative Lillian Hansen: No, we have not questioned the legality or expressed distrust of state ownership. We have said that it is important not to mix roles, we have not said that we mix roles. What is alarming is that Lillian Hansen does not agree with that. But I will be allowed to thank Lillian Hansen for a clarification, for the representative has today made clear to the world something that has not yet been answered by any government councils. For Lillian Hansen, we have now said the following: First, there will be no Alcoa establishment in Finnmark as long as you have the climate agreement, says the representative in his post. Furthermore, the representative Lillian Hansen has also now made clear from the red-greens that there will be no Ironman on the Tent God, for it would also break with the agreement. Furthermore, the representative has disentangled LO too, because the LO has just warned about what Lillian Hansen is now calling for. I think there is respect for the fact that we are now free to worry about the lack of response from the government parties. It has now come from this pulpit. So just one more piece of information: the State exercises its ownership through the General Assembly. The Governing Board is set up, and then there are members of the Governing Board who carry out the day-to-day work. But the state's possibility is through general meetings or in category 4 companies. In the case of undertakings, it is carried out through the business meeting. That's where you use these. Then the government announced expectations for the government. I think it's neat, I think it's very good to see what you're going to do as appointed board representatives, but I don't think you should mix the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2126	There has become a fierce fear among the red-green fraction of the nutrition committee for the Chinese, we hear in all the speeches. I've understood it so that the council has a completely different attitude toward the Chinese. I think he might want to move on to the committee. It's a fact in the proposals that the Right is behind, that in most cases we keep 34 pst, which thus ensures head office functions and control over the statutes of the companies. But I think that by any reduction in the state companies, the foreigners will see here, perhaps also other than the Chinese. One of the reasons is that they will not pay taxes on wealth in this country. On the other hand, Norwegian investors shall do so. If you insist that you combine a reduction in ownership with a reduction and a removal of property taxes, you get a good situation for the investors here in Norway. Then I must be allowed to send a visit to the representative Holmelid from SV. He praises the state ownership and all the well-being it has brought and will bring to the homeland. I think that's absolutely right. But with SV and their history of ownership, where had Statoil and Telenor been today? Had they still been state mastodons that had been little elastic and difficult to control and little profitable? I would like to say that in 2002 my first rapporteur in this Chamber was to get through the case of Snow White, because there was a need for special depreciation rules so that the project could get started. At that time Holmelid's colleague from SV Storking's representative Øystein Djupedal stood on this pulpit and spoke strongly, strongly against all such actions that could provide jobs in the north and a considerable well-being. And then I also want to say to the red-greens, who are always talking about this with leadership salaries as if we wanted high management salaries: that's not the point of the comments we've written, and what I've said here. The point is, you can't follow the guidelines. We've seen results of this, and we've seen newspaper headlines about every time an annual report is presented. The point is that you make guidelines, and then you give the board ambitions and responsibilities that they can't follow when they're going out and recruiting someone who's good enough to give exactly the results that we stand on this pulpit and demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2139	The extent of state ownership in Norway is large, and the majority of the population have wanted public ownership in key areas because ownership is equal to governance. The state has been saving for a long time, the state now has good advice and does not have to sell the inheritance silver. We have a choice, we are not in an economic compulsion situation like many other Western countries. That is why today's debate shows the ideological divisions between a red-green government and the Christian People's Party versus the blue: the Right and the Advance Party. It's nothing new. The centre party is historically strongly dependent on state ownership of public infrastructure, the management of natural resources, the defence industry, cereal preparedness and large industrial locomotives that must have their head office in Norway. However, private ownership is the central party's main line in the industrial policy of our mixed economy, because private ownership and its obligations are reflected in the necessary overall legislation is a very good model of ownership to ensure overall social interests. Today's Norwegian state has huge financial resources. The state pension fund abroad has several thousand billion Norwegian kroner, and we are now experiencing great and increasing uncertainty about these international financial investments. Therefore, the State pension fund abroad will now also invest in physical infrastructure – construction and construction abroad. Our investments are best known in a London tradesmanship. Several have mentioned China. China is strategically investing in natural resources and high-tech enterprises. We're going to notice this, and I'm happy for the many people who show that this is an interesting development going on. This is an important fact that must also be taken into account in the assessment of future state ownership of enterprises and institutions in Norway. Many therefore wonder more about Statoil’s sale of oil and gas pipelines from Norway’s socket – unnatural in this financial situation. The State must, on its own, be active and dynamic for clearly defined purposes in the companies which it owns in whole or in part. For several companies, we are in a combination of stock exchange and cathedral, business and strategic national interests. It's a demanding dilemma for a state owner. Therefore, Stortinget has a great responsibility to define the ownership role. We have many experiences that the role of ownership is too vaguely defined. Therefore, it is important that those who are to be loyal to the purpose of the governance representation have a purpose that is more clearly defined in such a way as to enhance their role. The choice of state form of company is crucial for the operation of a company. Therefore, central parties ring around Statkraft, Statnett and Statskog as state corporations, not as limited liability companies. Telenor was converted into a limited liability company and traded on the stock exchange. It was a fatal error that Telenor brought with it the state infrastructure that was located in Televerket, namely line networks and base stations. It's an important discussion that we have to take forward, because this area is central to reducing distance costs, and then we have to get an offer-driven expansion, and not a demand-driven expansion like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2156	I take the floor in this debate to link some comments to active ownership policy, social responsibility and more specifically to the government's use of ownership of Statoil. The Christian People's Party agrees with the government parties on the ownership share and on the objectives of ownership in Statoil. This is nothing new, we agreed on this also when the Storting treated the previous ownership message. We agree that ownership is a central and important tool for Norwegian authorities, and we agree that the space for action that is there should be used in an active ownership. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the government is following up and strengthening the expectations and follow-up of corporate social responsibility in this announcement of ownership. So we very much agree on these principles, but we have a different view of practice. We feel that the government is in practice more concerned with the constraints of state ownership than with the possibilities. It is particularly difficult to understand the government's application of ownership power in terms of one company's overall strategic investment with enormous environmental consequences. Yeah, I'm aiming for Statoil's oil sand production in Canada. This is about a nearly state-owned company producing oil through one of the most emission-intensive forms of oil production. The Christian People's Party has on two occasions made proposals in Stortinget asking the government through its influence in Statoil's governing bodies to ensure that the company withdraws from oil sand operations in Canada. The proposals are in agreement with reference to the notification of ownership and the principles there. Then the government party SV has been busy putting in place a new ownership message with clearer environmental guidelines for a state ownership in order to be able to extract Statoil from such projects. In the election campaign, SV launched this as one of ten demands for a new red-green government. The Christian People's Party has not yet registered signals that the new ownership message gets some impression of it, either what has been submitted by the government or the treatment here in Stortinget. The Canadian extraction of tar sands undermines global climate targets, destroys nature in vast areas and poisons habitats for humans and animals. It's very energy-consuming to extract this oil. Huge amounts of CO2 are emitted into the atmosphere for each oil barrel produced, almost ten times as much as the oil production on the Norwegian base. This is, in order to use Erik Solheim's own words, not acceptable, and especially when there is almost a state-owned company that is engaged in such production. It is not acceptable that the government does not choose to use its ownership and put an end to this. The Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal that is fully in line with the demands made by Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim on 20 March 2009 at SV's national meeting: We must manage Statoil more. I know it's controversial, and we have a long Norwegian tradition that you don't get involved in business decisions, but I think we have to look at this one more time. The Christian People's Party has put forward a proposal that gives the opportunity to look at this once again through our representative proposal to set climate and environmental objectives for ownership. We're recording that SV, like the other government parties, is going to vote this down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2180	It is with pride that we in the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party today agree on a smoking fresh ownership message. It has a renewed and improved theme, it has a long-term perspective and a flexibility in it that makes it forward-looking. The state plays an important role in the development of Norwegian business. The interaction between a competitive and innovative business and an active, contributing state is fundamental to our Norwegian social model. Good education and interesting jobs contribute to recruitment. In this context, it is important to invest in apprenticeship places. For the government, it is natural that in the new ownership message we expect companies with state ownership to take responsibility for recruiting apprentices. But I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not find room, among all their notes, to mention the word apprentices. While the government parties are committed to guidelines for management salaries, the aim being to contribute to the moderation of the remuneration conditions of the leaders, the Right Party and the Advance Party respond by saying that they will not take any responsibility for this. They're pushing all the control over to the controllers. While government parties focus on competence, capacity, differences in experience background and relevant diversity in governance composition, the Right Party and the Advance Party stress that this should be done independently of age, gender, place of residence, etc. Once again, they don't put any leads. While the government parties have clear expectations that the companies are seeking more women into the leading positions of state companies, we also see in this area that the Right Party and the Advance Party are refusing to take the lead. They leave to the companies themselves to decide who will have the different positions. It seems difficult for the Right Party and the Advance Party to have two thoughts in their heads at the same time. They say that any kind of imposition of allowances takes account other than competence first. To me, it seems strange that in the private sector, which is clearly the Progress Party and the Right Steering Course also in relation to the public, no more female board representatives and leaders are found without actually taking the lead. When half of the Norwegian people are women and more women than men take higher education in Norway, a believe that representation in management, naturally, should reflect this. But it's not like that. Again, the neutrality of the right-hand side may indicate an old age with a need for renewal. I believe that the distinctions between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy come well through this big message, and I am therefore very grateful that there is a red-green government that is submitting this message. I doubt whether the right side would come with a ownership message at all and put any strong leads in relation to what should have been – with the exception of maybe three: sales, sales and further sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2197	State ownership in Norwegian business clarifies important policy lines in this room. While the Right and Advance Party advocate a dramatic reduction in state ownership, the Labour Party wants long-term, strong and professional state ownership and that it should continue to contribute to good and stable development in the business world. I'm on the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and I want to draw a few points of view from our point of view. First to the defence industry: there is no doubt that state ownership is important for the large enterprises belonging to the defence industry in Norway. It is very important that we in that sector be able to maintain head offices in Norway. First of all, of course, the defence industry is primarily about supplying products for our defence, which we ourselves need, but also because it is about jobs not only in the Nammo and Kongsberg Group locomotives, but also significant quantities with subcontractors – as many as 130 – across the country. The third argument is also about taking care of the technological developments represented by the defence industry and having the head office, knowing that defence technology is very often a spearhead and has great ability to transfer to civilian products. Examples are that one of the first two computers that Norway had in 1968 was developed at Kongsberg. We wouldn't be in space if we didn't run missile operations. If these arguments are not good enough for the Right and the Advance Party, you should just look at the bottom line of these companies in the last few years and for example. start with Nammo, who had 23 pst. return on equity in 2009 – very good results. The defence industry also works closely with the Swedish Defence Research Institute. In one way it may be said that ok – The Right Party and the Advance Party – negative ownership control is also ensured through 34 p.m., but the Labour Party will give you the authority to continue to hold over 50 p.m. Even if you can maintain a negative ownership control with 34 pst. State ownership will, of course, also make it difficult for the companies concerned to have such a low proportion of the merger, if any, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2215	I was going to say some sensible and wise words that the Council of State could have enjoyed thinking about and thinking about in its heart – and that's where the Council of State comes in, so we can start. There's been a dividing line here in the hall when it comes to whether you want a large or small government involvement in private business. What I find a little surprising is that in this announcement of active state ownership almost no pressure is used on the very important corporations and companies in which the state owns 100 p.m., where 125 000 are employed – translated into annual works into 90 000 – and who consume 99 billion. kr of the State budget. I'm thinking about the regional health companies and the underlying health companies. Four and a half sides are what you have to report from there, yet this is a health care company no one thinks about selling. However, there are undertakings that can be asked significant questions about whether they are well managed. Are they controllable at all? Is the State following its own principles of good ownership, as described in the Communication on page 70? In paragraph 5, it reads as follows: «The capital structure of the company shall be appropriate to the purpose of ownership and the situation of the company.» There is a lot of evidence that major rationalisations and conversions are now being carried out without the owner having made sure that the capital page and operating page are correctly dimensioned in order to run the organisations in parallel. On page 69, it says: ‘The principles of sound ownership and management include, inter alia, clarification of roles and ensure the soundness of decision-making. Good ownership reduces the risk to the business.» [[...]] Yes, it must be because you have a private enterprise that is well run, but with a certain state element. But it doesn't seem like the state follows its own ownership principles where you own 100 pst. Jan Grundt just mentioned the conversion at Oslo University Hospital as a positioning game, and so we see a large sector, 90 health companies, 4 health regions, governed by decrees of the Council of State. I could imagine inviting the Council of State to reflect a little on this sector's lack of governance when choosing the form of enterprise, and to respond to why one is not so concerned with introducing competences as the major guiding requirement for recruiting board members, while health care companies have focused on completely outside-of-the-box aspects in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2236	The state has a large ownership of different enterprises in Norway. This ownership also follows a responsibility to maintain these high values in a reasonable manner and to ensure that these companies operate in an ethically and environmentally sound manner. I am very pleased that the government in this communication has made clear the state's responsibility, that the government will professionalise the follow-up to state ownership, and that the framework for the management of ownership of individual companies is clarified. For me, it is also important to stress the importance of now significantly tightening up the pay policy of state companies. As a member of the Energy and Environment Committee, my main exposure lies in the companies bordering on our territory. The state owns all or part of companies that mean a great deal to the management of our natural resources. Management of these resources is partly conflicted, and it is important that companies act in a good way both here in Norway and abroad. I am very pleased that the Communication states that companies in which the State owns are to be the leaders in its low-emission and climate-reducing industries and that companies should develop and deploy the best possible technology to reduce their environmental and climate impacts. The companies controlled by the State in the energy sector are large. State power is the largest renewable energy producer in Europe and manages large parts of the hydropower in Norway. State power has a role as a locomotive in the Norwegian renewable industry and represents more than 30 pst in normal years. of the hydropower production here at home. Therefore, it is also so very important that the government clearly follows up State power and facilitates further development of that company through the injection of equity. It is worth noting that the injection of equity this year is significantly larger than it has ever been under any other government. This ownership message is the first after the merger between Statoil and Hydro Oil and Gas Division. Statoil is currently controlling 80 pst. by all operators on a Norwegian base. It makes them a very dominant actor. Statoil is categorised as a company in which the State has a commercial interest. We also have an interest in the company having its head office in Norway. The management of the company must be based on the general wording of the environmental and ethics ownership notice, but also on the specific nature of the company. Although it is established that the state’s interests in Statoil are only commercial – with the head office supplement – we have to assume that Statoil is a hugely important player in an industry that matters a lot to us. We are therefore pleased with the clarifications made by the majority of the Committee in the form of comments on this. This ownership message, as I see it, provides a good basis for managing the companies that manage important natural resources on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2253	There is no doubt that state ownership is important. It guarantees the right to dispose of our common natural resources, national anchoring of important companies, and it gives revenue to the community. There is great support among most people to secure a strong and public Norwegian ownership. The government's ownership policy makes the country an active, long-term and senior owner of important Norwegian companies. In 2009, the magazine Monday Morning made an investigation that revealed that seven out of ten directors praised the state as their owner. 72 pst. by top managers, some claim that it is positive and safe for business as a whole with a strong state of ownership in several parts of the business. Only 9 pst. of those who asked said that the state should sell itself down. Now it shall be said that the investigation was carried out in 2009, during the financial crisis. But it's just in this case that a state owner makes a difference. Then a government owner can be long-term and make the company stand firm through a crisis. I am so happy that so many business leaders are with us, and not with the Right and the Advance Party, who are going to sell out large parts of our ownership in the same way as in 2007. The sale of state-owned companies has been carried out before. History showed that the Bondevik II government, with the head right, sold SND Invest on the ticket hall. SND Invest was sold for 547 million. SEK to an investment company, and in two years the investment company had a profit of more than one and a half billion. kr. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to make demands on the companies we own, it is important to have a holistic ownership policy, entirely from the State pension fund to direct ownership of companies – among others. for equality requirements, no to corruption, no to child labour, environmental requirements, research and development requirements, and not least for wage earners. And I see from the remarks that here the Right Party and the Advance Party try again: it must not be too detailed, it must not be too strict with other countries – almost one claim that it can affect the company's operations negatively. But in fact, having a good reputation is a positive thing for the company. It strengthens the company if one has ethical guidelines as one follow. It strengthens the company with a lack of authority, and it strengthens the company's responsibility for research and development. In fact, international investment companies look to Norway when it comes to ethical guidelines for investment, they see it as a brand they themselves want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2266	The message contains a lot of exciting themes, but I will now take the opportunity from the pulpit to convey some ideas about the social responsibility of these state-owned companies. In this respect, I would like to focus a little on the government's procurement policy. The government has developed an action plan, Environmental and Social Responsibility in Public Acquisitions, which describes where it wants to be. That's very good. However, I also note that an overall committee is concerned that enterprises with State ownership are seeking to facilitate the competition of small and medium-sized enterprises for contracts within the framework of the EEA Agreement. I wish that the words ‘trying to’ could have been replaced by the word ‘brew’, or, to go even further, ‘shell’. Let us see, for example: Unfortunately, in my part of the country, many of the Nordic industrial environments do not come to terms with contract policy, such as: Statoil is in charge. And the signals that Statnet is setting up a contract regime in connection with the expansion of the new powerlines in the north can also lead to the loss of Nordic businesses because the contract regime is becoming too big. I know you can if you want. Unfortunately, it is felt that the builders who are governed by the large companies owned by the state do not want enough. The state Road Service shows the way, literally, that it goes when the will is there. The development of E6 west of Alta is an example of adapting the contract regime to Northern Norwegian business. In my view, taking social responsibility seriously is a local and regional perspective. I would like several state-owned companies to follow the example of the State Road Administration there. Finally, a comment to the representative Nesvik's thoughts about Alcoa in Finnmark. The government has never said no to Alcoa, on the contrary, it has warmly welcomed them. The question to Nesvik is whether Alcoa should comply with the Storting's will, or whether the Storting should bow to the will of Alcoa's owners. I register that the Advance Party and the Right will select the last one. The red-green ones pick the first one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2277	A few comments to some of the people who have been up here before. First, to the agent Fleet. He was busy that SV has not always supported the oil expansion projects that have been carried out in Stortinget. It's an upright position, because it's not like oil and gas resources are falling in value if they're lying a little further in the earth's crust, rather than taking them up and seeing the money in the oil fund. When it happened to the representative Tenden, I was very surprised. I got the impression that in her article she was almost suggesting that the state did not have to own more than one third of any state-owned company. If this is the case, it goes far beyond the Progress Party with regard to the hall. So it might have been very interesting if the Left made it clear if it's actually what they mean, even with regard to the big companies, like Statoil and State Power. When it comes to the representative Højbrätten, I have to say that I appreciate his commitment to oil sand, but it could have been fun to right which government constellations the Højbrätten thinks to give plurality to his point of view. So I want to like the representative Martinsen to pay attention to something that I didn't want to come into my first post. It is stated in the message that «State-owned companies shall be the leaders in their low-emission and climate-reducing technology industries». In the notes, we have clarified that measurement indicators should be developed for this ambition and that this should be reported. In addition, the message says that a person should invite stakeholders to be involved and discuss which indicators to use. Here we have a very exciting invitation to, among other things. the environmental movement. I know that the environmental movement in public has said that it is a good step in the right direction to have a good dialogue with the state on state ownership when it comes to climate and environment. When we see this in combination with the fact that the majority in the committee wants the government administrator to have stronger competences in the area of social responsibility and the environment, we expect that in the owner dialogues in the future, there will be a clearer and clearer signal from the state on social responsibility and the environment, in accordance with their ability to exercise this dialogue, and that the message and comments have strengthened climate and environment expectations. There are also concrete wordings – which have been discussed by many – when it applies to individual companies, among others. that the majority in the Committee very much appreciates the fact that Statoil is investing in renewable energy. I'm glad the majority in the committee does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2297	I note that this is a debate in which the rhetoric is high. The chairman of the committee, Aasland, began the debate by saying that nothing indicates that Norwegian private capital would buy if the state sells itself down. I think that's a terriblely crazy conclusion. Something else is if he had said he could buy. With red-green policies, where you do the best you can to take the life of Norwegian private ownership through the wealth tax and weaken the diversity we have in private ownership, you can start drawing up threat images about China, etc. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State is also picking up on it. I thought – as the representative Fleet – that the Council of State was on a different track when it came to China. Then we also hear that the representative Lundtigen is talking about the heirloom silver – there is everything heirloom silver in the farm. Holmelid talks about state ownership that benefits the community. It certainly makes my hat the private ownership and the returns that the private ownership gives. We have to talk about how we create returns in Norwegian society. We have a tax system that ensures that private returns are also distributed over the common good. I know that SV is aware of this, because there are few who are as good at milking the tax system as SV. What we're talking about is having diversity in ownership. Here we talk about the diversity of the regimes. I think diversity in ownership is at least equally important to discuss, and there, private Norwegian ownership is quite vulnerable. If the council had had a slightly longer perspective than what he has in the message, he would have seen that in ten years the private ownership of Oslo Børs would be dramatically reduced. Private ownership other than Oslo Børs is a very good ownership, which generates a great return, and which is extremely important in terms of employment and jobs all over Norway, because there are no countries and non-residents coming in and taking responsibility. So I'd like to say a little bit about social responsibility. The councils mentioned it with one sentence, I think. There is no problematisation of social responsibility and the state role at all. We know that Statoil probably doesn't just have to go to oil sand projects, they need to go to the most corrupt countries in the world to find new oil — no problematisation around it at all. The council said Statoil had been an incredibly good store. I thought that Statoil had a dramatic poor return on oil price growth and the return you can see in other international oil companies. I have more on social responsibility. It's possible I'm drawing for a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2315	It's not bad what I'm saying now, but I'm recording that the representative Nesvik probably likes to listen much better than listening. When I referred to chief trustees around the Hydro factories in Norway and to our demands to invest in Norway, this was not supported, cork of the Right or of the Progress Party. And it doesn't have anything to do with little changes in the ownership of Hydro. We red-green have a completely different ownership policy than the Right and the Progress Party stands for. Right hand and the Forward hand shall not lead; the Governing Board shall determine. The double communication from the Progress Party on State ownership is confusing. When it comes to concrete things, such as Statskog-saka, which was treated Tuesday, shall have the detailed rules, yes, according to the representative, Tåldal approximately down to every three to be sold. But in the setting they claim that we are running policies and not shops when we put the leads on e.g. social responsibility and rent wages. There are also other parties that do not have total internal agreement. A joint control committee agreed that it was good that the new ownership message would come with tightening of rents and pensions. Per-Kristian Foss from the Right also brought this up in the debate, when he said quite frankly that the minister ensured that in the new message he would also include the intensification of the gold-edge pension schemes. It is clear that the Right in the Business Committee does not share this view. Here's the control and only the guide. Also, when it comes to the perception of the importance of women's quota in control, the signal is mildly bursting from the Right. Now run Right from all they've said about adding leaders on the issue of allowances and gold pensions. A visual awakening? Nope. But interesting? Yes. I would like to inform the representative of Gundersen that 250 000 new jobs have actually been created since this government took over in 2005, and two thirds of them are in the private sector. Is it this representative who thinks about strangling Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2332	It was basically an expected response to my post. But I was a little wrong. I was wrong about who would respond. I actually thought that it was the Right who wanted to make a counterpost – or at best an explanation of what is now the Right Environmental Policy. But it was the Progress Party that reacted. With all due respect, I must say it was an excessive reaction. I actually don't like anyone putting words in my mouth that I haven't said. I was very clear that I did not add up to a debate about the establishment of Alcoa. I simply asked – after the last few days’ statements by representatives from the Right – for an explanation of what their policy is. That that's what I meant, I think the Progress Party understands very well. So let's go to LO's play. At least not as I have registered, Lo's leader Roar Flåthen has been in the committee work on this communication. It has the Right – and they have, as I said, had plenty of time to come up with proposals for new environmental policies. As I said in one sentence, I have not said anything for or against the establishment of Alcoa – in so far as not for other establishments either. I think I can say once again that I was clean. I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but I take the chance: that Harald T. Nesvik blows up, I take as a pure spinal reflex, and it's probably because it says Ap behind my name. It is fine for the Right that the Advance Party is trying to defend the party – or explain it to the party. I'm recording that reinforcements have come in here from both sides from the Right, so maybe before this debate is over, we'll get an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2345	That's not always what you say, which is the problem, but that's the consequence of what you've said, which actually creates a problem. What the representative Lillian Hansen had in mind in his main post was linked to the fact that the decisions, that piece of agreement, in the climate agreement are firm. They wouldn't look at it. That's exactly the part that prevents Alcoa from establishing itself in Finnmark. That's what will prevent Ironman from establishing himself on the Tent Good. Sometimes you have to look at the consequences of your posts, not just what you said. I would also like to make a small comment to the representative Holmelid, who in his main post began to bring matters forward from 1975. I'll try to defend at least what's been in my time. Now it is no longer back than 1997 and, as far as I know, the then representative Carl I. Hagen, to which it was referred, was a member of the Reform Party from 1974 to 1975. So whether I'm going to be responsible for it, too, gets the time to show. I will ask a question back to the representative Holmelid. In his statement, he pointed it out with the use of resources and with the oil sector. He thought it was very good and was very proud that you did not want to extract everything. But the problem with what the representative Holmelid says is that the rule of action is based on the return of the oil fund and how much one can calculate to use the state budget. It's a direct consequence of the use of money that you can have, it 'links' up to it. I see the representative Holmelid shaking his head. It will be very interesting to hear his interpretation of the rule of action, which just refers to a percentage return on the oil fund. It's going to be very exciting to see. At the same time, the representative Holmelid can answer whether he supported his party colleague’s current government council, Audun Lysbakken, who in his time mentioned – if you want to go back in time – that he would put down Oslo Børs. It'll be interesting to hear. The representative Else-May Botten had some things related to quota etc., and ended with ‘sales, sales and sales again’. With regard to the policy and proposals that the Progress Party has just put forward here: in these strategically important companies, we have just caught up on exactly what has to do with the head office, which has been involved in many people, and research and development. That's why we don't want to sell ourselves under 34 pst. precisely in those companies. This concerns Kongsberg, in the case of Nammo, which Laila Gustavsen was also involved in his post. These things are just caught up in that piece, because we consider it so important to follow up. It will be exciting to follow this debate further. But just a brief comment: those who have been involved in selling the most of the state shares, are actually the Workers' Party itself, through Statoil, Telenor etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2358	First to the representative Lilian Hansen: The right is of course at the comment that is written about the environment in the setting. We are standing by the climate agreement we have made in Stortinget. There's no doubt about it. If the representative Hansen needs to discuss whether she is in favour of or against Alcoa establishment, I suggest that she choose a different venue than this one. Then to the representative Gustavsen, who says that it is absolutely necessary to have head office control in the various state companies. Yes, look at the Right suggestion in the setting, where we are not under 34 pst. in the major companies. And then you raise the issue of mergers. You can only read the comments on the Right, where you can maintain your holdings, and that's precisely when it comes to mergers. So I allow myself to add that in case of mergers, of course, a ownership of 51 pst will also. could be lowered – possibly even below 34 pst. So to Kåre Simensen, who made a good contribution to the competitiveness of small businesses. What he should do is talk to his own government about the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to deliver to the public. If the EU enforcement directive is now to be passed on to courts in Norway when we implement it, it will be a major problem for small businesses that can no longer receive a KOFA decision. It's better to expand it. It's going to be a big debate. I hope he is on our side in that matter. And then to the representative Ingrid Heggø and double morals, or at least double communication – maybe a little better. She talks about the Right and Advance Party, or at least the Right, for my part, does not support the requirement in the vote on investments in Norway. But does the representative believe that companies can be implemented and imposed, through majority comments in the Stortinget, that they should invest in Norway? Or is there another way that the Council of State has dosed for us today? There I think you have to think a little bit about. We have to use the guiding principles that we have, and then, of course, the owners have to give signals. But to think that you're guided by notes, and that those who don't sign the notes by going in are opposed, is to draw it a little bit well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2371	First of all, some issues that have been addressed in the debate: The representative, Tetzschner, was involved in this with the management of health businesses. Well, we don't go into the sector sector specifically and discuss the governance principles, but we say, on the other hand, that the good government governance principles should apply to all the ten departments that have ownership responsibility. We are clear that there is actually a message covering everyone, and that the guidelines we are laying down should be indicative also of the Ministry of Ownership other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We also say that the strengthening of ownership management that we receive in our department should benefit others by contributing with competence, for example. With regard to the professional conduct of governance evaluation, good board members are found, and how, in a professional, predictable way, clear expectations are also placed on the companies in which they are located, and how to measure and monitor them throughout the year – the division of roles between general meetings, owners, boards, management as well. In the case of Højbråten and Ölsand, in our view, it is contrary to good ownership management to go into such a case. We think it's a business question. We're going to have rather incalculable and insurmountable challenges if we're going to address that kind of pretty detailed investment strategy. There are also other areas where CO2 emissions are high, and where questions can be asked about whether it is right or wrong to enter, but where we believe that it is the company that has to take that assessment, and then we have the whole environmental policy that includes state companies. On the other hand, we have a clear expectation in the big news that our companies are going to be the best in the class of the environment, so where they have an commitment, they're going to use the most modern available technology, and they're going to be the leaders in setting good climate goals. There I see that the Christian People's Party and the Document 8 that we are discussing today also go in the same direction as the government wants. At all, I see that the Christian People's Party has a position that is close to the government parties. That's positive, because I think ownership debate should get a different sound now that we have so much capital. Selling in state companies would simply mean relocating state assets, from Norwegian enterprises to foreign enterprises. So I'm a little more disappointed with the Left, which puts itself up to the Right and the Advance Party. It is surprising for a party that has a proud history of caring for Norwegian business and Norwegian ownership. It's a shame you've now turned to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2387	Some brief comments on what has been going on in the debate. First of all, the representative fleet was concerned that my reasoning should actually indicate that one would buy up to 100 pst. in the companies in which the State is a partner. It is with respect to report very incorrectly. I'm very much for private ownership. Let me underline that. But at the same time I'm also very much for state ownership, and the mixture that is, I think is very good. I'm not afraid of Chinese capital either, but I don't see the sense in reducing Norwegian ownership positions that yield good returns, that someone is playing it in a situation where there is no lack of capital. The probability of Chinese state capital entering and buying up some of the values that may be traded, yes, that probability is very high. I just don't see the sense of it, but the representative fleet can see it. Then there are significant differences between the Advance Party and the Right, and the majority, the government parties with the Labour Party. To be consistent in the major industrial companies of 34 pst. is not a good room for action in the industrial sense. The case of Vale and Hydro is a good example of that. Had the state then had 34 pst, one had come far below 34 pst. in connection with that purchase. But we don't want to get into such a position, and therefore it's a goal to be above 34 pst. That's why it's not 0.2 pst. difference between the Working Party and the Progress Party in relation to Hydro. We want to rebuild our ownership of Hydro to 39.9 pst. That's what Stortinget has given authority to, precisely because we're going to have the industrial space in the future if that opportunity affords. That is very important. So Gunnar Gundersen says that we're doing what we can to prevent private capital. With respect to reporting, it's wrong. It's totally wrong! We have a social model that, through the financial crisis, has been quite successful. From 2005 to 2010, 250,000 new jobs have been created – two thirds in the private sector. Growth in the number of enterprises is high. If I remember correctly, there were over 4,500 new businesses during 2010, and we have a model that shows that there are many people who want to invest in Norway. What remains after this debate is that the Right Party and the Progressive Party, without any particular justification, want to transfer large values of which the state receives good returns to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2402	Alf Egil Holmelid has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2405	I hope I can say something reasonable in a minute. What I was going to assume is something I see as a double communication from the Right, and that concerns social responsibility. I read the comments to the Right so that the Right, in cooperation with the Progress Party, wants the State that owns to have an arm's length distance from its companies in relation to ownership management. One should be careful to say something about concrete measures in the company. I think it is very special that the Right's representatives are often the first to say: what are the companies to do when operating in different countries, such as the United States? in Azerbaijan? So I want the Right to be a little bit clear: are we going to have the arm's length distance, or are we going to say all the time about concrete ways the state companies behave when they're established abroad? Then to Nesvik: The basic premise of the rule of action [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2416	It's about time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2419	Then I'll have to take it privately with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2425	It's also an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2428	First, a small response both to Heggø and Aasland around this with jobs. I actually think that the red-greens should accept that they came into a quite so covered table. It was an economy that was well organised for a fantastic international boom, from 2005 to 2008. It helped create very many jobs in Norway. Then came the financial crisis in 2008, and the curve after that is quite dramaticly different. Not many jobs are created in the private sector in Norway and there is a shift of labour from the private sector to the public sector. So that's what we're going to do. To Aasland, he said that I was talking about preventing private ownership. I didn't say "block" private ownership, I said "kill" private ownership. Obviously, when someone has a property tax of 1.1 pst, which is not imposed on state ownership, and does not impose foreign ownership, it is quite predictable what happens. You weaken private ownership, you weaken diversity, and you get more state ownership. That's exactly what I'm worried about, because in the overview of jobs, Hydro, Statoil, Yara, all of them, are inside the private sector. So it's a sector that's taking on more and more state ownership, so there's a big problem here. But then a little bit to this with social responsibility again. I note that the Council of State chooses not to comment on the challenges of Statoil's commitment to many large, corrupt regimes around the world, where one depends on finding the new oil resources. It's not just oil sand this is about. I had two other questions for the finance minister when the NHO president was killed by fish oil when buying from Western Sahara. Our finance minister has been the leader of Cermaq, who also traded fish oil with West Africa. The reason why the Council of State – when the governor – did not grasp it – was that he was not informed, or was not aware of the situation. It's clear that if it's good enough to avoid a claim of social responsibility that the leader just drops his head far enough into the sand, I wonder what you really want with social responsibility. I think social responsibility might be one of the big flashes of Norwegian politics, but we don't really know what to put into it. I want to see how you put it into practice. So to seed fund: I note that the red-green people talk about it, but don't do anything about it. The revision had a good opportunity to grant money to seed funds. That's when they're empty of money. There was nothing coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2445	I must pay Mrs. Hansen a visit. With regard to the climate policy confusion that obviously arises around us because of our outlays, it does not have much to do in this matter of ownership. I can assure the representative Hansen that the Right is on the climate deal, but we have made some progress, because we believe that a number of government councils have been unclear about nutrition policy when it comes to desire in relation to establishments. Then we find it strange that you can hide behind a climate settlement in a matter that really doesn't have much to do with it. Then, someday – delayed, late, but hopefully good – climate change comes from the government. Then we're going to take the debate, and then we're going to clarify it so that everyone understands what Right means. Then to the representative Heggø about it with economics and jobs. Now it's going to be a bit of a repetition, because the Gundersen was pretty good at it, but that rehearsal I think is healthy. It's actually so that some governments inherit a downward economy, others inherit an upward economy. So the government that sits here inherited an upward economy. They sailed into it. This means that private economic operators created so many jobs. It should be noted that the curve, as Gundersen said, has flattened, and it should be noted that the competitiveness of Norwegian industry has significantly weakened in recent years under the red-green regime. That's also a point to take with you. With regard to governance principles and governance, it is strange that the representative Heggø is actually on a collision course with its own State Council. According to Heggø, there are almost no limits to what can be ‘needed’ as a big-scale policy towards state ownership, while the Council of State was very clear about having sound governance principles, so that companies are well off, and secure jobs. The councils were so clear on some of the principles that I was happy, until he began to play with the Christian People's Party and had become so very good friends with them and satisfied with them, for they are certainly not as healthy and tidy when they talk about guiding principles towards Norwegian companies in the home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2456	I would also like to comment on the contributions of Lillian Hansen. She talked a little about the so-called climate agreement, as she thought was important, and as she was afraid that the Right had gone away. We have now confirmed that they have not gone from it. But something has happened because of the climate agreement with Lillian Hansen. Among other things, Alcoa could have given badly needed 500 jobs to Finnmark County, and the representative Lillian Hansen, who comes from North Norway itself, from Northern Ireland, should know that we have a deportation from North Norway so that monks, and that new industry would do it so that the youth could come home and work. But because of the double standards of Lillian Hansen and the red-green parties, not to use gas that's cleaned right into the industry, nothing happens. But what else do you do? So to Qatar, Minister Giske travels with the Crown Prince. You open a plant there, and you get lots of boasts. The same type of plant that is owned by the country can be used. There's no problem there, you can do it. Norwegian gas is also sold to Germany, which is converted into electricity, and Lillian Hansen buys the power back to use it at home to get electricity in the house. There's no problem the other way. The only thing the red-green and Lillian Hansen are looking for is to move the jobs from the districts and Norway, out of the country, and import back what we could have done ourselves in Norway. That is why I am pleased that the LO has now arrived on the track, and I am pleased to tell you how they want the race to be. I know LO and the Workers' Party right: when LO, which is really the boss, and the NK Stoltenberg is told by the boss to turn around, I expect that we'll turn around quite quickly. It's also for the best. So we're glad they do. So to the representative Heggø, who was in the middle of a debate yesterday, I would be in charge of detail every three. What is the difference between the Progress Party and the Socialist majority is that the socialist majority is once again halting economic development in North Norway, a billion project is being iced because Statskog does not want to sell out the cadastral parcels so that private individuals are allowed to establish themselves. What happens because of that? When we want to get to grips with it, we get criticism that we control the detail. We want to open up private interests and private actors to a flourishing life in the districts. Unfortunately, what has now happened is that the matter is over. The entire capital was in place, but those who were in and were to finance this have now moved out and invested in Finland – in line with the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2469	I really didn't intend to take the floor again in the debate, but after hearing the Council of State's last speech, I can't help not. In the announcement of ownership, the government is careful to distinguish the roles of owner, board and day-to-day management in government-owned enterprises. It's affordable. But then it happens that the board of directors, through dialogue with the owner, is asking for a signal as to which governance action should be taken to ensure the desired development of the enterprise or enterprise. We had such a situation here in Oslo yesterday. Then was Kolbjørn Almlid, who is director of Health Mid-Norway, in the owner's meeting with the government council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen. He came to the meeting with a clear expectation of a signal from the owner as to whether Health Middle Norway should plan for three or four hospitals in More and Romesdal, and possibly the size of a new Molde hospital. The answer given to the director was that it got health companies to decide for themselves, but there was no more money. It might have been interesting to hear whether the Council of State considers this to be the exercise of active and responsible ownership in a full-time state enterprise. We don't mean that. Our view is that this and other examples show that regional health establishments should be closed down and that instead we receive national health care plans that are presented together with the national health care plan. That is what we have also proposed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2478	As health establishments are mentioned in the notification, since they are 100 pst. owned by the State, since they manage approx. 10 pst. of the State's spending side, and since they do not treat quickly enough, they put 250,000 people in line for health services, I believe that it belongs in this room as well and in a context in which we discuss the country's instrumental use of enterprises to implement their policies. Then it's natural to start with the businesses where you have 100 pst. ownership and 100 pst. control. At a time when we can also record that there are significant governance problems in the health sector and that the business model is in full disintegration, the Council of State responds to this small challenge from the undersigned that he has a governance evaluation form. The fact that he chooses not to address the challenge, says some, that there is no view of what should have been clarified, not least during the transition periods that the health care system is undergoing, namely the role-sharing. He has no view of what quality development VG has now demonstrated through a series of breaches of health law and infringements of normal medically sound activities. Nor does the ownership of mergers and conversions be done: to look at the capital side and what is needed for a transitional period of time by means of money to bring happiness to these mergers and conversions. There are also no comments on the governance of a large sector of 125 000 employees by the Health Council through political decrees, where press reports are being issued that the governance has been strengthened – 30 points, 20 points, where one of them is to use less part-time and have more full-time jobs, as if this were not something that could safely be left to the individual board and individual organisation to decide. They do not want to spend more expenditure on employees than is necessary. Parking policy is included as a point. It's a level of detail that has nothing to do with modern ownership. In this respect, I record that there are no comments, and I find that striking because the red-greens talk about themselves when they try to control Norwegian business through partners, is that at least where they themselves are healers, they are quite satisfied. They are not active; they are passive. And then it seems that our Minister of Economic Affairs is also quite passive when he sees that the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen is passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2485	The picture is not rosy. Looking at Norwegian competitiveness, one has the exceptional feature that every year during this government, Norwegian competitiveness has fallen relative to the rest of the world. There's no way out. When one looks at what we from Norway and from this room have the opportunity to do something about – I am bringing forward the wealth tax as perhaps the most important thing – then one is dogmatically locked so that the tax must remain at exactly the same level as today. It's a fundamental mistake. It is not without reason that the Swedish Finance Minister thanks Norway and thanks the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister and Minister of Industry for sending Norwegian capital to Sweden. Nor is there any doubt that the property tax is forcing Norwegian capital out. The simple fact that Elkem with Norwegian ownership had to make 1 million. kr more per day before tax than with Chinese or, for that matter, any other ownership, is involved in forcing Norwegian companies out of the country and making it more difficult to be Norwegian owners in Norway. The Minister of Industry further insists that selling is really just relocating, because we bathed in money. But you know what, selling has a number of positive sides, just like it sometimes has positive sides to buy. But let me list a couple of the negative sides of the purchase and a couple of the positive sides of the sale. It makes Norwegian companies more attractive to non-residents and, for that matter, Norwegian owners to be free from the state. Being free from the state is in many cases a coercive street. It definitely doesn't have to be that, but in many cases it is. This makes the Norwegian stock exchange here in Oslo a little liquid, precisely because we have many companies with very high levels of state ownership. There is also another point, the question: what is the goal of state ownership? Is the objective of state ownership to create profit? Yes, but then you have one type of ownership. Is the objective of state ownership to secure head office in Norway? Yes, but then you can manage with another type of ownership. It must mean that, every time you talk about state ownership, and not, as we have seen in this debate, paint the situation as a matter of fact, only Norwegian capital enters the company or, for that matter, to replace foreign capital or Norwegian private capital. So the last point that maybe is the most important of all: being the best in the class, what does that really mean? What does it mean to take social responsibility? What are the demands of the Minister of Industry to overwhelm Norwegian directors in addition to what are legal requirements? I also find it difficult to see both in the case of Western Sahara, investments in Libya, investments in Nigeria, Angola, Vietnam, Azerbaijan, in which we have seen Norwegian whole-time and rented state ownership almost frantic. There is no social responsibility in many of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2496	I'll be very short. I just want to say that I am brilliantly satisfied with this debate. I would like to thank the representative Svein Flätten for a very good and important clarification. I will not comment on the comments of the representative Torgeir Träldal. It stands for its own unfairness, as usual.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2501	First of all, I would like to thank you for an interesting debate that has shown the dividing lines relatively well, even though I believe the intention of most is at the same level, namely to ensure Norwegian jobs, secure head office functions, which actually all parties have, and, not least, research and development. But a theme that has gone by very quickly, just a few have been involved, is the desire, as the minority rightly mentions in the vote, that one thing is public ownership, which is duly debated in this matter, but another thing is the lack of a big message about private ownership and the framework conditions for both the exercise and the possibility of private ownership. I hope that the Council of State can be present. Although the members of the Committee from the red-green parties are opposed to such a proposal, I hope that the Council of State will accept it. Although it is possible to be downgraded here today, I hope the Council of State will take this with me, because it is very important to show the course, where we are going to go forward. There are a number of people who are willing to bet on their own savings and their own capital just to be able to create business in Norway. It is not that public ownership alone is driving the welfare of this country. It is enough that mainly private enterprises – the inhabitants of this country – are acting through their taxes and taxes, etc. carries the main expenditure for the State, so as to ensure both hospital facilities, hospitals, etc. So to the representative, Tetzschner, who's dealing with exactly what's going on with regional health companies. It's completely in place. It should have had a broader place in this communication, too, seen from the Committee's point of view, but it is quite clear that there is a debate that we have to take on many fronts. It's also an invitation to the red-green politicians who were very concerned about what's going on with management pay and pension schemes, because if there's really a sector where you've seen that management wages are sky-high, pension schemes are sky-high, and the number of directors compared to the number of employees is sky-high, then maybe you should start looking at yourself in the cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2512	As the rapporteur, I would also like to thank you for a good debate, which has made both the areas in which we agree and, among other things, the areas in which we agree. good ownership principles, and where we disagree, mainly with regard to the extent of state ownership. It is absolutely legitimate that we develop the political differences. It's useful that we make visible that there are different directions. Nevertheless, I am pleased, as I said in my previous post, that the Christian People's Party has largely joined us. It shows that there is a wider majority than the red-green parties behind a strong state ownership. Then someone has asked for the health care companies and a discussion about them. Well, as I said, there are ten departments that have ownership responsibility, and starting a wide-ranging debate on health companies, on the symphony orchestras, on the NSB or Avinor, or all the disciplines that this concerns, you get to include the various state councils that are responsible in this area. Because it is very clearly defined in the Communication that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is not an over-owner of the total ownership of the other departments, but we are a centre of competence and must have a strong ownership environment that contributes to good ownership management and good ownership principles in the other departments. We're going to strengthen that role. Then I think it was great that the representative Gitmark described in an excellent way how big the difference really is, because it's not just a proposal that concerns 80-90 billion. kr, and that right will sell down, or 167 brd. kr that the Progress Party will sell down, if it takes the percentages of the different companies, but it is a very principle view, where it is said that the company is more attractive to private investors by saying that the company is «free from the state». There is no professional evidence for this. This is studied by professionals to see if there is a stock discount in those companies that have state ownership. You can't tell. So this is taken out of the representative's ideological head -- there's probably a lot of good there -- but it has nothing to do with the empirical and the fact. On the contrary, the value development of state-owned companies has been very good. The return is very good, and they are attractive also for private investment. And then I would also like to say that this is a picture of the situation of private owners who are very few in the business world. Norwegian business is doing enormously well. There have been 220 000 more jobs since 2005. There were 22,000 more in 2001–2005. If you follow the profits and also the dividends that are collected only in the spring, it will go great, and if you compare it with Sweden or other countries, I think most would choose Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2527	Let me include myself in the range of those who thank you for the debate. The debate has shown that there are differences in the view of the extent of state ownership, but the differences are not far near as dramatic as they are made by the red-green side. I have shown in the past that we are standing at 34 pst. ownership of very many companies. At the Council of State's last post here, it is tempting to note that when he talks about hearing nothing from the private owners, people think that things are going well, etc., it does. But then the committee chairman's statement is quite strange, where on the one hand he praises the private ownership that he is also for, but when you talk about that private ownership might get a little bit bigger at the expense of state ownership – and we know that it can be an advantage in many ways, because we have seen that from history – then he suddenly calls it transferring values to others. I think that the private owners in Norway think is a rather strange statement. Then I want to say a little bit about what we agree on, or what I hope we agree on. That is how ownership is to be exercised and practiced. It is very reassuring for me to hear the representative Holmelid now draw to the right as an example that you go out and feel something in specific individual cases. I understand that then means that now we are not going to hear more from private-practicing wholesalers of the red-green people who believe something in the state companies. I hope that what we can do is that the Council of State, Giske, must now be allowed to become so that I will not call it right-wing action, but at least that he follows the principles of state ownership and good governance, so that we avoid the episodes of kicking directors and going all the way across what is perfectly normal principles. If SV can contribute to it, no one is more happy with it than the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2537	It's obvious that the red-greens are now saturated with days, because the status quo is on the agenda, it's obvious that there's red-green policies we're going to look for. Looking back now on the tax-related discussion, the optimal tax level was evident in 2004. When we look back at the state versus private, today's situation is optimal. The answer is the status quo. It's definitely not for the Right. In the case of lack of empirical evidence from the Council of State, let me refer to a few specific cases. There are few sectors in Norway that are as sovereign and publicly dominated as the power sector. If there is one sector of everlasting resources that has developed poorly in terms of value, it is precisely the power sector. Can it be connected exclusively to public ownership? No, it's not given. But there's one example of that. Statoil, our largest investment in Oslo Børs, is it a company that has provided the income it should? Is it a company that has provided the value development that it should? No, not necessarily. It's an example that state ownership helps write down the values. Once again not necessarily, but it's worth going on with. One moment doesn't get the government council out of the way, and that's the moment of purchase. The normal thing is that companies that are in a buying-in phase or, for that matter, are at risk of – in the absence of better words – being bought-in, have a very large value development. It does not take place in public companies or in rented public companies, precisely because purchases have been written off and away from what is being discussed. This means that you're left with a discount in that way – and that's a very concrete example.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2550	Terje Aasland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2553	I just underline once again that in my opinion the combination of private and state capital is good. When the ideological entrance of the Right Party and the Advance Party is that the state's holdings should be as small as possible, preferably not present and without interference, it is an ideological entrance into the matter that we are really discussing. It's okay. It's all right. But there is a significant political difference in the matter that is now being discussed. That they sell something out — really significant, for billions of dollars — is clearly a transfer of values, values that could initially yield long-term returns on government capital as well. A good example of this is the desire of the Advance Party to sell out half of Statkraft as a start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2560	I think the chairman of the committee would have liked to read the comments in the setting a little bit better. At that time he had, among other things, see that we just wanted – that’s right, that’s right – to quote State Power and convert it into a public limited liability company, similar to what the Workers’ Party did with Statoil, with Telenor and other companies. In fact, we want to contribute to Norwegian citizens being able to participate in and own the company, so that one does not need to be a Council of State to be able to participate and influence development, but by being minority owners to be able to attend general meetings. Nor is it the case that the chairman of the Committee tries to create the impression that the Progress Party is opposed to the state being a co-owner, that it is preferable not to want anything. No, what is just going to create power in a company is a combination – get skills and get others to join in and run the company. If the starting point for the representative Aasland is that it's only the state that can run businesses, it would be quite correct. But society has shown that that actually is not the case. The council says it's going to go so it's laughing in the private. Yeah, but there's no way it's laughing because of the government's policy. It's probably because of the economic cycles and the possibilities of creating something. Now the state council said in its statement that they had created – I think it was – 230,000 more jobs. The correct thing is that there are new ones, because there are not 230,000 more people who have got a job, because some jobs have actually gone away. I think it's a little bit important that you're also a little nuanced from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2567	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 7, 8, and 9. [[Votation, see pages 4608 and 4611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2583	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2592	As an alternate with a total seagoing service of eight days at Stortinget, I have already found out that the learning curve is steeped, when one suddenly sees that one is led up as a case rapporteur in one case. I will do my best and hope that I will not get hurt to do anything that is contrary to Storting's Rules of Procedure. The Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, wants its own big message about travel life. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Progress Party that there be a big message about a forward-looking strategy for Norwegian travel life. It's been more than ten years since St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000, The profitable and competitive tourism industries were submitted. Since then, there has been a boom in the tourism industry. Tourists demand more varied products than before and make greater demands on what a travel experience is. The tourism industry is important for both employment and value creation. The figures from the 2010 Central Statistical Office show that 6 pst. of all employed jobs in the tourism industry. The SSB also states that last year there were 1.25 million overnight stays at Norwegian hotels, and that the industry sells for approx. 90 B.C.E. kr annually. Some one third of the revenue comes from foreign tourists. It illustrates that there is an important industry and an industry that provides good export revenue. The Christian People's Party believes the tourism industry is a forward-looking industry, which makes important contributions to activity and housing in the districts. The central statistical agency also points out that the tourism industry means relatively more to the districts than to the central ones in terms of employment and value creation. A study conducted by the NHO Travel Life, in which 600 rapporteurs, advisers and municipal leaders are asked, shows that travel life has the highest potential in Norwegian districts of all industries, and that industry, according to them, has asked for a greater potential than has been achieved so far. It is therefore important to review the opportunities and challenges of the tourism industry. Although the government has developed a national strategy for the tourism industry, it is not sufficient to provide a basis for strengthening the industry and the place it has as one of the country’s most important industries. At a time when agricultural employment has fallen sharply, it is also important to give more bones to both the agricultural industry and the districts. Not least, this is an important additional industry for the farmer. Farm tourism has a high development potential and can mean dearly loved extra income for farmers who are struggling with poor finances. It is a major untapped potential for the tourism industry. This applies not least to tourists from abroad. Only one in three dollars left is from a foreign tourist. In order to increase this proportion, targeted and coordinated efforts are needed from Innovation Norway and other tourism actors. It is necessary to look at all these issues in the context in order to develop a good policy for travel and, consequently, for the regions as well. Therefore, there is a need for a separate message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2613	The President will tell you that we have some technical problems up here, so we don't have a clock that works for the moment. But when the president gets up, it might be time to finish the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2616	The representative shall do his best to follow when the President rises. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who presented the matter in an excellent manner. I think that went very well. I would also like to take the opportunity to address the proposals where the Progress Party is with the Right and with the Right and the Christian People's Party. That's it. This should be a matter where there are no major differences between opposition and position. In the situation description itself, there is likely to be much agreement. The big difference in this case is whether the Storting will receive a travel life message to discuss this matter broadly here, or whether it is sufficient for the government to develop its own travel life strategy. For the Progress Party, there is a significant difference between a travel life strategy and a travel life report. It depends on whether you want to involve the Storting or not. The travel strategy is a document drawn up by the government, which makes the policy that will be pursued in the field visible, i.e.: that there is a document which is neither the subject of a separate debate in the Stortinget nor is such that the Storing should join the government's proposal. The background to the promotion of this proposal by the Progress Party was precisely to get the broad debate, but also to point out that, in order to succeed, it is very often the case that efforts have to be made over time, especially when entering new markets. It's not like you see the effects right away when you start processing a market. We've seen that related to the work you've tried to do in China. It took a long time to rebuild the Russian market, which is now beginning to bear fruit. Furthermore, it is also important that we do not forget our established travel life markets, such as: United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, etc. In fact, the Progress Party wants us to take this broad debate and look at the tools we use in travel. Among other things, we have see reports asking, could it be that we have too many destinations? Should we look at the way this is arranged, the way we sell the nation of Norway outside? Yes, there are a number of different things that it might be interesting to look at. Furthermore, of course, it is also the instrument. We have also seen an excellent report, which, if I do not remember completely wrong, also the Council of State, together with the Minister of Transport, was present at the presentation of the NHO – The Life of Travel – which points out a number of different challenges related to the use of continuous baggage, related to route information, to the extent that it makes sense to have rapid variations and changes related to route information. There's a lot of things it might have been interesting to look at, but unfortunately the government parties reject the fact that the Storting will have to discuss this. You obviously have more than enough with yourself and you don't want to interfere with the Storting in this work. I think it's a loss, because it would be good for travel life and good for long-term planning, but unfortunately, here you show that you're not interested in having the Storting on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2633	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Some progress has been made on technical issues – the clock is working, mostly. The President asks that the representatives who have taken part in this debate report again, since we have rehabilitated the facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2640	I agree entirely with the case spokesperson that travel life is a very important industry. It's important district industry, and it's a forward-looking industry. Travel is actually one of the five main areas of activity of this government. That's why we've also increased the permissions monthly, for example. to market Norway better. Nevertheless, I am a little disunited when a person in the form of a note tries to present it as if the government has not managed travel since St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000. Among other things, we have a number of times discussed travel life in this room, also quite a lot – I will dare to claim – similar Document 8 suggestions. I – and many with me – have also just pushed travel lives into the vast majority of the budget debates that we have had here on the Stortinget. In December 2007, the government of Stoltenberg launched the national strategy for tourism — valuable experiences — in which a total of 72 interventions were launched. 72 measures – it’s not small! A review of these measures was carried out in the summer of 2009. The status report showed that most of these measures were either implemented or well underway. The overarching objectives of the strategy are: increasing value creation and productivity in tourism industries viable districts through several year-round jobs within the tourism industry Norway, a sustainable destination – it has not been fully achieved Work on the revision of the government's travel strategy has been started. Here the Minister of Economic Affairs has announced that the new strategy focuses on and highlights efforts to achieve the objectives and to formulate measurable targets. We have a powerful Minister of Industry, and the Labour Party is confident that the new strategy will respond to the challenges presented by the representatives in this Document 8, including: intra-traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2663	Travel industry is Norway’s fourth largest industry, and Norway is seen as a good country to visit, where especially the coast and our fjords get very high scores. With its many natural advantages, Norwegian tourism industries are expected to be cared for and developed much better than today, as has been the case in the last few years on several occasions from this platform through both proposals and interpellations. We see that more and more countries around us, in strong international competition, have succeeded better in developing a more focused strategy on tourism as a growth industry than we have done in Norway. This despite the fact that the government of both Soria Moria declarations has programmed the development of a national strategy for Norwegian travel. If we're going to succeed internationally, we're going to have to be on top. Cooperation needs to be strengthened, profitability needs to be improved, and more robust industries need to be provided with several full-year jobs. This does not help with taxes on working capital, nor does the increase from last year in taxes on property – a heavy levy imposed on this type of commercial property goes straight to the bottom line. The same applies to the inheritance fee. Also, the shoe does not necessarily print the fact that there is too little money. The question is how to use the money. How can more measurable tourism be increased in Norway? Equally important, it will be to have a ‘travel life promise’. Travel in Norway needs to be easier – because today we scare away tourists with bad roads. In general, out in the country, we see a great local commitment to travel life. At the same time, we feel that tourists are not allowed to shop because of closed shops, or they have to bring their euro back because it is not organised for the use of the euro. This has to end. Do we have good enough structures? How effective is the market share of the money we have? Is it easy for the money to be used for the uplift by promoting too small for small destinations? It doesn't help much with capital muscles if you can't interact. The question is how we can get better together. All this and more need to be put in place in a new travel life message — a travel life message that can present in full the challenges facing Norwegian tourism today both locally, nationally and internationally. It needs to be a long-term and more targeted effort, with the primary task of the country to market Norway as a travel destination – in addition to being a supporter of the many players who have neither capital nor the ability to invest enough to become known abroad on their own. The work of Innovation Norway in this field is very important, precisely because travel life in Norway consists of very many small and medium-sized enterprises with limited access to capital that can be used for marketing on a large scale internationally. There are growing demands and new expectations from foreign tourists coming to Norway to experience the little extra on their journey – more than just our fantastic nature. Many want finished concept with tailor-made arrangements and new experiences. The need for a long-term perspective, which must characterise the investment in travel life, speaks for its own big-time message, so that any bet is not only anchored in an internal government strategy but finds its anchoring in the Storting through its own message. The industry should receive a document which will be able to stand up over time, providing the necessary long-termity. There is a significant difference between the government developing a strategy and the Storting handling a notice in plenary. The report of the NHO Reiseliv’s Structural Committee clearly highlights the readiness of the tourism industry to convert the destination structure. They point out that larger, fewer and more robust companies will lead to better marketing of Norway. This is in agreement with the Right. We believe it is time for Norway to learn from the large European tourist nations Spain and Italy, which market entire regions as one destination. The right supports the proposal for a comprehensive communication on travel life. Together with the Progress Party, we also propose that different funding models be looked at, and that it is natural for this to be done in a sample, as outlined by the NHO in its report. I registered that the representative Nesvik presented the proposals that are also on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2695	That's right. The representative, Nesvik, has promoted the minority proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2698	Travel nutrition is an important industry that we have discussed several times here in Stortinget. Travel life is important in many ways. She has a big place in the Norwegian economy, and is therefore important for the whole of Norway's economy, but what's special about tourism is that it's an industry that's very important for District Norway. It is not located in one or the other part of the country, but covers the whole country, and in particular in the district of Norway. Hence, the good reason why we often discuss that industry. But, as I said, since we have so often discussed tourism here in the hall, this time I will take advantage of the opportunity to talk a little bit about this industry not living in a vacuum. She may be one of the most dependent industries in politics, as well as looking at the industry itself. And then we can just take one example, and that's the agriculture. Agriculture, a living agriculture in all of Norway, I will see as a very important basis for a large part of the tourism industry. We know that even when we're traveling: some of us are busy seeing wild nature, but a lot of people want to see activity, and we want to see a cultural landscape where something happens – in addition to the wild nature. Or at least when we get back from it wild nature in the evening, it's very good that there are people there, and that there's activity there. So the parties that are occupied with a viable tourism industry should therefore also be concerned that we have an agriculture that is viable in the whole country, especially in the districts, where there might not be so much other activity for tourists or others to look at. Another area that is very important for tourism is culture. A greater and greater part of travel life is what we call experience-based and culture-based, where a journey to experience new societies, a journey to experience things, but often combine them with high-quality culture. So what the red-green government has done when it comes to the cultural promise is perhaps one of the most important things that have been done for travel life in Norway. So, as I said, looking at travel life in isolation is just looking at half the travel life. We have to look at what's around if we're going to get a good structure, if we're going to get a real boost for travel. Finally, I would like to agree with the Right for once: it is important to travel for the tourism industry, but I would also say that it is not everyone who comes by car. Therefore, a support SV's commitment to public transport must be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2717	Norway has unique travel life offers, and the Centre is concerned that travel needs to be given the opportunity to unlock its potential. The centre party is pleased that the government is continuing to invest in travel life. This industry must be seen in the context of nature, culture, agriculture, fisheries and transport. It's a living society we have to show our tourists and our guests here to land. I would also like to mention that the agreement that the government has put in place with Hurtigruten has a very important impact on travel life. Travel life is Norway's fourth largest industry. Tourist consumption in Norway for 2009 was 4.3 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. Travel life is for 6.5 pst. of total employment in Norway. The centre party is concerned with the possibility of linking access to large and unique natural areas, the exploitation of local resources, traditions and distinctive cultural landscapes, and not least the knowledge that people have. This needs to be exploited in order to improve the development of travel. The centre party believes it is important to strengthen cooperation in food, travel and experiences across traditional industries, among others. with product, geography and travel destinations common to all. In the development of travel life as an industry, particular attention is paid to the development of travel life lighthouses, joint marketing, increased volume and good logistics. In a letter dated 11 April 2011, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade explained the ongoing work on the revision of the government’s travel strategy and the intention of the Council of State to launch the revised strategy at the end of 2011. The Minister’s letter of reply states that the revised strategy will respond to the challenges that the representatives present in the proposal, including: in the field of transport. The new strategy focuses on sharpening efforts to achieve the objectives and on formulating measurable targets. In this work, the Centre Party sees it as natural with a strong interaction between the national strategy and regional initiatives, in favour of the tourism industry as a whole. And that's actually the way, unlike the right-wing representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve said, there's a lot of regional cooperation and regional profiling going on. In this context, I would like to refer to fjord Norway, which has been Norway's flagship in the field of travel life over time, and the fjords in the West are very important for national bets as well. The establishment of Northern Norway Travel Life is inspired by this investment in the West, and I think it is exciting that there is also an interest in a similar regional investment in the mountain region in the West. This shows that regional profiling in the context of the national travel strategy has a high potential. It is therefore important that regional efforts are also emphasised when the national travel strategy is being revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2740	Let me first say that I am very pleased with the commitment that is in the storehouse for the travel industry. This was one of the areas raised by the red-green government when we took over, leaving the industry-neutral policy and instead saying that we need to make strategies, make up, make action plans for a value development and job development where we have special advantages, where we have competence, where we have clusters, and where we as a small nation can do great things. Therefore, a strategy for the tourism industry, valuable experiences, was developed in December 2007. It was developed in dialogue with the tourism industry and Innovation Norway. So it's completely wrong as it was said here from the hall, that this was almost made in the inner corridors. It was in close dialogue with the industry itself that this strategy was developed. It had three main objectives: increased value creation and productivity in the tourism industry; viable districts through several full-year jobs in the tourism industry; and Norway as a sustainable travel destination. It wasn't just a strategy. It was also followed up with appropriations. We now spend 0.25 billion each year. to support the tourism industry, mainly through marketing, but also the building of skills, networking, etc. It is gratifying now that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that supports such a commitment, which believes that the tourism industry is worth investing in, and sees that this is a supporter of Norwegian value creation in the future – and not least, as many people have been involved, with a large potential in the districts. Proposals put forward a number of challenges, including: related to transport. There are many other dimensions that should be discussed in a travel life context, but we in the government have proposed that we renew the strategy that we were making in 2007 – once again in close cooperation with those involved, namely the actors themselves, so that we quickly put in place a new strategy, and so that we are up-to-date on the instruments needed for a new era. So we've worked closely with the industry itself, and those who know where the shoe prints have had a close impact on it. It's always a dilemma, or a balance: what's going to be big news, and what's going to be strategies? I am absolutely sure that we will come back to Stortinget with other kinds of messages and documents, which also allow Stortinget to discuss the travel industry in a broader setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2755	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2758	I'm going to guarantee that the Council of State will have questions related to travel life and have the opportunity to discuss it on a later occasion. But I must also point out that I fully understand the work of the Council of State on travel life. It's obvious that the exposure is also big. But that's not what this case is about. This matter is about whether you could take the Storting on board, because it may in fact also happen that there can be good things out of such a discussion from this hall and that bit. What we wanted to create a debate on was precisely whether we could get a message here, so that the guidelines that were drawn up could be in a longer-term perspective than de facto a period of government. Of course, some people have hopes of sitting in the government chair for a very long time, while others have hopes that you won't be sitting there for the same time. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State at least ensure that this strategy is annexed either to the budget or to another document, so that it can be discussed in plenary in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2767	Once again, I just have to say that I appreciate the Storting's commitment to the travel industry, and repeat what I said, that there is always a dilemma what is going to become a message or not. That strategy will of course be made available to the big business representatives, and I would also like to invite the big business representatives to take part in the debate that the industry is in the process of doing, on what kind of goals and what kind of instruments you should have in a tourism strategy. I do not imagine that that strategy will be presented to the Stortinget as a document, but of course it will be available to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2772	The hotel owner at Ullensvang in Hardanger expressed concern for the future of Norwegian district hotels in Dagens Näringsliv. The strong Norwegian exchange rate is just one of several conditions that put pressure on the profitability of these companies. These generation companies lack economic muscles to compete with cruise ships sailing into Norwegian fjords, with as many tourists as 40-50 Western hotels can accommodate. It is floating luxury hotel with casino, zero VAT and tax, as well as low wages. Governments have indicated the harmfulness of taxes on wealth on working capital. If these hotels have money to invest, it also means increased taxes on wealth despite red figures. Will the Council of State go from talking and showing understanding to making sure that these proud generation companies are freed from the taxes on wealth, and also from the inheritance tax, so that they can evolve in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2781	Neither the inheritance tax nor the property tax is the main challenge for Norwegian tourism industry, nor for Norwegian business. On the contrary, as I said in the previous debate, things are going very well in Norwegian business. On the other hand, the challenge for tourism is that it is not possible to create products that are attractive enough. You can't build enough skills, you can't build all year round jobs, and maybe you don't have enough units to be able to be powerful in a highly competitive sector. In the tourism industry, we have to do exactly what we do in shipbuilding, the aluminium industry or anything else – we have to put additional skills, quality and productivity into what we make, so that it defends the high Norwegian wage level, which is our standard of living. We cannot build the tourism industry on any other premise than that it will take place in Norway, with Norwegian wages and with Norwegian framework conditions. I think that's quite possible, because we have a unique product to sell, namely Norway. I think that with good help from the industry itself, we're going to make a strategy that helps us realize. But the property tax and inheritance tax are not going to be part of that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2790	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2801	The size is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e2809	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Siri A. Meling, on behalf of the Progressive Party, Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-3 has been inserted in the settings on page 10. Proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, says: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case on Enova’s future role.’ Proposal No 3 from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government of the State budget for 2012 to present a concrete target for energy efficiency improvement in Norway by 2020.’ Proposal No. 4, from the left, says: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of electrical energy supplied for use in chemical reduction, electrolysis, metallurgical and mineralogical processes, as well as electrical energy supplied for use in energy-intensive companies in the woodworking industry as a calculation-relevant quantity in its regulation which provides detailed rules on the calculation-relevant amount of electrical energy from power consumption in the power-intensive industry’.» These proposals will be discussed at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3498	Section 8, first paragraph, second sentence and fourth paragraph, there is a proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8 of the Electricity Certificates Act is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3529	It shall be weighed over the other paragraphs of Section 8 and all paragraphs of Chapters 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3540	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3550	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3574	During the debate, Mr Tende has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for emission-free power from start-up as a condition for the development of the operation of the Ecofisc and Firefish II.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3661	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to promote the necessary proposals for funding so that no additional expenditure is incurred by the municipalities, the police and the other emergency services in connection with the establishment of the new Emergency Network.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3699	A total of 41 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6–16, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 17-33, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 34 and 35, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 36–39, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 40 and 41, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–39 is included in the position on pages 61 and 62, while the proposals No. 40 and 41 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 40 and 41, from the left. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take urgent action against Aker ASA with the aim of disbanding Aker Holding and selling the company’s ownership of Aker Solutions.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The government is asked to use any income related to the sale of state ownership to increase the contribution capital of the Research Fund.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3744	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36–39, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various action options to be developed by the government to concentrate ownership management on fewer departments than today.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication on how State and private ownership can strengthen one another.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the companies in which the State is the dominant owner shall promote concrete measures to enhance the competence of the companies in the area of social responsibility, in particular in relation to the environment and the climate’. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess partial sales of Mesta Konsern AS’s business.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3776	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 and 35, from the right. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the government to sell the State’s shareholdings in Telenor ASA to 51 p.m. and down to 34 p.m. in the case of a merger/purchase transaction in which the company’s shares are used as settlement or exchange means.’;» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case on Enova’s future role.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3800	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell Nammo AS to 34 pst.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3817	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19 and 21-33, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to pool the State’s ownership management to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In the first instance, all companies in categories 1 to 3 are transferred and then work is started in the departments on how to transfer quickly also those companies with sectoral policy objectives.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen Argentum Fund Investments AS through increased access to capital.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish several funds linked to both the seed and the growth phase, built up on the basis of a fund-in-fund model, in the context of the 2012 State budget.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The size gives the government the power to sell Norwegian Hydro ASA to 34 pst.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell Telenor ASA to 34 pst.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision empowers the Government to dispose of the State ownership of NSB AS’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The decision empowers the government to quote the Post Norway AS and convert the company into a public limited-liability company.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size gives the government the power to quote State Power SF and then to make a State sale to the company at 51 pst.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The size empowers the government to dispose of the ownership of the IT Competence Centre in the health and social sector AS’. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell in Nofima AS at 51 pst.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The size empowers the government to sub-privatisation and the listing of the NRK’.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The size gives the government the power to sell Simula Research Laboratory AS to 34 pst.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote its own case on the access to capital to Statnett SF’. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through the state ownership of Statskog SF to oblige the company to start with the sale of forest properties and other real estate State forest SF owns, by 1 August 2011.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to abolish the wine monopoly regime.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to bring forward its own case for the winding-up of regional health companies and to propose the establishment of a State Hospital Directorate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3911	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–16, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own communication on how to strengthen Norwegian private ownership by the spring of 2012.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The decision authorises the government to sell the shares of Cermaq ASA.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size empowers the government to dispose of the State ownership of the Flytrain AS’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the State ownership of Mesta Konsern AS’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The increase gives the government the power to sell the shares in VESO.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to promote its own case on the long-term strategy for ownership of Aker Holding AS.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the government to sell ASA to 34 pst in Kongsberg Group.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The decision authorises the Government to sell the State’s ownership of Statoil to a holding of 51 p.m.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the government to sell in Yara International ASA to 34 pst.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose its own strategy for the Enova SF.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e3982	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide its own aviation message during 2011.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to close regional health businesses.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4004	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision empowers the Government to dispose of the State ownership of Entra Eiendom AS.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case for the evaluation of Innovation Norway and the Innovation Agency Norway manages.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national hospital plan as part of the national health and care plan.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4049	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–7, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the climate and environmental perspectives are an essential element of the objectives set by the State for each company.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure consistency between the sustainability strategy and the country’s ownership policy and exercise’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the climate is lifted as an overall, priority governance objective in the country’s ownership policy.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a regular review and assessment of the overall contribution of the corporate portfolio to the implementation of the national sustainability strategy and climate/environment policy.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is actively asking for the full-time and rented state companies not to establish themselves in tax havens or channel funds through tax havens.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use its influence in the governing bodies of Argentum to ensure that Argentum does not invest in funds based on tax havens such as Bermuda, Jersey, Guernsey, Monaco, etc.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use its power of ownership to provide moderate management salaries and moderate bonus schemes in state companies.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:89 S [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4107	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4133	The Committee's position on I is the first to be voted on. It is the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party that are behind you, so the President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4148	We then vote for the Committee's position on II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4158	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on IV, promoted by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is authorised to liquidate the State ownership of Entra Eiendom A/S in such a way and at the time appropriate to the interests of the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4178	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to set up a sample to look at different models of financing of so-called common resources in the tourism industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4206	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a global report on a coordinated and forward-looking strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-09.ana.ud2488e4230	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
