ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e60	Two permit applications are available: From the representatives André Oktay Dahl and Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 18 January to 8 April – both to take a main course at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e88	Bente Stein Mathisen and Kari Storstrand are present and will take the seat. The representative, Ulf Leirstein, has asked for the floor to withdraw a proposed representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e93	I would like to inform you that I want to withdraw the representative proposal 59 S for 2010–2011, which was the proposal of the undersigned and the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to empower the government to reduce the VAT on electricity and electricity in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e98	The representative, Ulf Leirstein, informed that the proposal for a representative had been withdrawn and was informed. The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will then put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e103	Then I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself about flexible electricity charges in periods of exceptionally high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e108	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e111	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on high-speed broadband throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e137	Norway is in the middle of the world when it comes to doping in organised sport. We gain great recognition for the work done here, and Norway may have some of the ‘cleanst’ organized sport. It is relatively rare to hear about sportsmen who have been doping, and those who are being taken have strong reactions. Just because we're so good at organized sport, it's regrettable that we're not using that knowledge and effort even outside of sport. Antidoping Norway has said that they are ready to take up the fight against doping outside sport, and the Hormonal Laboratory at Aker University Hospital wants to establish a national competence centre. There may be important contributions to the fight against doping outside organised sport. It is worrying that we hear of an ever-increasing abuse of doping with anabolic steroids and hormones among young boys. There's guys in every layer that starts with this, and in common with them, they want to develop big muscles quickly. Affected by advertising and ideals, they think it's natural with extra large bodies and six-pack on the stomach. For some of them it goes so far that they develop megarexia. In other words, they can't be big enough. Megareksi has become the new physique disorder of young boys. While the anorexic doesn't get slim enough, the mega-archic never gets big enough. Food and exercise are not sufficient to achieve the ideal measure, and often they take anabolic steroids to achieve satisfactory size. They search for information on the Internet in different online forums and have good knowledge of how baptism works. But they probably only focus on the effect they themselves want, and choose to ignore the adverse effects of doping. Through hard training and extreme diets, the mega-archic can mold his body as desired, and they set themselves ever higher goals. Similarly, a person with anorexia will starve to get thin enough. But in her own eyes she never gets thin enough. We've been focusing for many years on the pressure young girls have, with syllable models like role models and eating disorders as a result of achieving the ideal. That focus has been important, and today we have schooled and awake parents, school nurses, regulars, teachers and others in the girls' community who see the danger signals and catch them up. A little less focus has, unfortunately, been on the pressure young boys are being subjected to. Today you can see that since they are very small, they have toy figures with heavy muscles and large bodies that they play with. Movie stars, models, and other idolatrous guys look up to, all have big muscles. In other words, if you're going to be successful, you have to look like a muscle bundle. The pressure on the boys starts early, and the doping phone can tell about boys down to the age of 13-14 who have an abuse. They contact the doping phone for advice. It's very worrying that so young boys use dope, especially considering what late effects it can have. Since it's irresponsible to expose someone to such high doses as these guys take, we don't have a good overview of what's going to happen to them later on. In addition, young boys find it difficult to understand the consequences of such abuse and the consequences of overdose. Often these boys are indignant in environments that mention this as harmless, and they compare it with food supplements. I've met boys who before almost didn't dare go to the health care sister to get a shot, who start injecting themselves, right in the muscles. They do, even though they know that they get so hurt afterwards that they can't sleep. We get worry messages from desperate parents who watch their boys change completely after the use of doping. They tell us about great mood swings and periods of aggression and violence. There has been a discussion about whether violence is increasing with the use of anabolic steroids, but the tragic event in Sweden where a man was drinking alcohol and anabolic steroids killed his placekeepers and raped her friend shows that there is a connection there. In addition, prisons experience an overrepresentation of those using steroids. Often they have mixed abuse, and something can probably be attributed to it. But the events and experience do suggest that anabolic steroids do something about your psyche. Family and friends experience that the boys who abuse dope are only focused on training, eating and sleeping. They measure muscles, and they weigh to see results. As the cure goes on, the muscles grow. They see results and are satisfied. In the period when they don't go on a cure, they get discouraged, and many become depressed. Several users say that this period is difficult to get through. I have great compassion for the families who experience meeting a health care system that doesn't have enough knowledge, and they feel powerless when they're going to help their children. It's easy to imagine how desperate you are when you can't help your children out of an abuse that destroys both their physical and mental health. Therefore, we need to disseminate knowledge about doping in the neighbourhoods of these boys — such as school, health care, and decision-making. Several say that when they confront their youth with doping, they only get the answer that it is their body, and that the use of doping is not illegal in Norway. They want a ban on the use of anabolic steroids, and it's not hard to understand it, although it probably isn't enough in itself to stop the use of steroids. It is not right to produce and trade doping in Norway. It contributes to the creation of an underground establishment that produces doping illegally under unsanitary conditions. This in itself can contribute to serious harm to the user who eats or injects the drug. Many smuggle the doping into Norway, and even if some are taken into customs, there are many who drop through. We have no control over what it is in the baptism that comes into the country, or whether the dosages that are on the products are correct. Studies have shown that there are both products other than those on which it is based and that the dosage is both below and above what is advisable. Some of the products come from former Eastern bloc countries and may contain dangerous substances, even hepatitis virus. Customs are doing a great job controlling and taking those who are doing it, but often they only import individual ingredients that are not illegal in themselves, and even if customs know it's to be used for the manufacture of dope, they can't do anything about it. Now it has been said that the use of anabolic steroids and hormones should be considered in the context of the revision of a new drug plan and in the review of the drug law. It's positive, and it's urgent to get started with that work. How will the Council of State help to prevent and prevent more young people from destroying their physical and mental health as a result of drug abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e165	The use of doping agents poses a risk to health, both physically and mentally — as explained by the inter-pellant Wenche Olsen. Many suggest that the use of doping drugs outside organised sport has increased in recent years. Doping agents are introduced and produced to a significant extent and such funds are readily available throughout the country. I therefore share the interpellant's concern about the youth's attitude to and use of anabolic androgenic steroids. In recent years, the knowledge of doping has increased significantly, but it is difficult to point to a single reason why young people choose to use doping drugs. The causes are complex, and there are psychological and social explanations of the doping phenomenon. This means that we have to meet the challenge with different types of instruments. It's good for public health that today's young people are concerned with health and taking care of their bodies, but it's unfortunate that the focus on body and appearance in some cases leads to some bulls using doping drugs. Training and healthy diets are health-promoting, but doping is harmful to health and incompatible with a healthy body. It is necessary to bring forward this message more strongly in the prevention work. To the extent that doping is caused by ignorance, information and information is the solution. We need to intensify this work. But this is just one part of the mind-creating work. It is affordable to arrive at the message that doping agents are dangerous to health. It is much more difficult to get the target audience to comply with the message. I am also concerned with prevention in this area. I am pleased that prevention efforts have been strengthened through the cooperation reform. We have many good prevention strategies and measures, both of a general nature and targeting vulnerable groups. That's good. However, anti-doping work must be included more strongly in the general, prevention and awareness-raising work aimed at young people. Doping is probably more widespread than we know. There is much going on in the hidden area, and the first-line service rarely detects the signals before it is too late. It is therefore necessary to train the first line service to look after and detect symptoms. Doping must be part of the targeted early intervention effort. Young people who are baptized are not ignorant — rather on the contrary. Studies show that they are actively seeking information and are up-to-date. But they are selective in the information search to find support for their way of using doping. The result is often that they believe that their own doping use is safe. The Internet is an important channel for information on doping agents. Information on the Internet is not necessarily incorrect, but actors are often sparing with information about risks and potential adverse effects. In any case, it is not satisfactory that such websites are the main source of information for many young people. Today's young people live through the Internet and social media in many ways. This situation gives us new challenges, but also new opportunities. We also need to use this arena to inform and engage in dialogue with the target audience. Much of the turnover is also being generated online. There is also a reason for the authorities to use the Internet and social media to inform and warn. Samples of seized substances show that very many of these products contain something other than what is stated on the product declaration. Sometimes the agent may be weaker than stated, but often it is much stronger than what is listed. In addition, it may contain unknown and harmful substances. This increases the risk of doping and underlines the need for information and warnings. Health needs to be better equipped to receive and provide good help to those in need of treatment for doping-related health damage — both somatic and mental. Studies show that doping users are industrious healthcare users in order to check their health status. However, it appears that primary health services do not have competence in doping and doping-related symptoms and do not see the contexts, so that they catch people in time. That means that many people who could have gotten help in an early phase are missing. Competence exists, but it is largely centralised and not widely used in primary health services. In the future, it is important that this competence reaches out to larger parts of healthcare. Use of doping has several similarities with the use of other drugs, and users are often the same. The challenges must be seen in the context. I will therefore ensure that doping is thoroughly addressed in the drug policy issue that the government will present during the year. We have already invited important actors in the anti-doping work to dialogue. We will also benefit from the experience of our neighbouring countries through different approaches and solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e188	First, I must thank the Minister for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister is concerned about the matter and understands that we need action. It is that one can often get the impression that the fight for doping outside of sport is about criminalising the use of drugs. Had it been that simple, we could have just adopted it, but here there are enough measures to prevent young boys and others from destroying themselves. Drug use is, as you know, prohibited, but many still use it. I believe that one of the most important things we can do in the fight against doping is to spread knowledge in health care and school. Health nurses and caregivers are among those who should have good knowledge of the symptoms of drug users and how they can help them out of the abuse. The Hormonal Laboratory at Aker proposes the establishment of a national competence centre for the prevention and treatment of sensitisers in the event of doping abuse. They say that they have long wanted to improve the provision of treatment to users of doping drugs outside sport. This, in their view, is the main medical problem of the use of doping agents. They know that the proportion of young people who indicate that they have used doping drugs is between 2 and 5 pst. in Norway, and unfortunately they expect some unfortunate physical and mental distress from it. The treatment of these delays is currently relatively random in different parts of the healthcare system in Norway, while, among other things, the treatment of these delays is currently carried out in different parts of the health system in Norway. in Sweden, a national centre of excellence has been established to coordinate this work. The hormone laboratory at Aker has already started cooperation with that centre. They want to be a centre in Norway that can both treat these conditions at specialist level, be a centre of expertise in knowledge of the conditions, actively prevent the use of the health care services in secondary schools and in secondary schools, and maintain the doping telephone. I am aware that the proposal has been sent to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and will therefore ask the Minister of Health if she considers the establishment of such a centre as a contribution to combating the use of doping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e203	There is no doubt that Antidoping Norway and Oslo University Hospitals, Aker and the environments there are the environments most competent in doping and its effects on individuals who use doping and who abuse these substances. There is also no doubt that if we are to gain competence across the country, we need to build on where the competence is, even though the use of doping has many features that are similar to the use of drugs. Studies show that 60-70 pst. Of those who have tried anabolic and drug steroids, drugs have also been tried. So the treatment has to be seen in the context. Like I said, we're now working on a big-time report on drugs. Doping will get a big place there. How we're going to organize this work further, we're going to come back to it, but there's no doubt that we're busy building on those environments. They have a good dialogue with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It is precisely these environments that will be important in order to gain competence in the first-line service, as the inter-pellant emphasises — out to regular doctors and school health services. It is particularly important to both prevent and detect early signs of abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e212	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important issue in this societal debate on doping abuse. The use of doping agents is harmful to health and an increasing social problem. Doping is traditionally linked to competitive sport, which has institutionalised comprehensive measures to prevent doping among sportsmen. In recent years, doping has also been shown to be widespread and increasing in unorganised sports and training. Measures are necessary to prevent the use of doping agents even outside organised sport. In sport, doping abuse has been mainly carried out by health professionals to deliver results to practitioners through artificial and illegal means of performance promotion. It is difficult to get an overview of the extent of doping. A 2009 police high school survey shows that the proportion who had used or used doping was 2.9 pst. among men and 1 pst. among women. Those who use doping mainly use anabolic steroids and testosterone preparations. Doping abuse is mainly motivated by the desire for a ‘pure or larger’ body. Studies have shown that those with doping experience are more likely to get into trouble and use more of other drugs. The combination of alcohol or other drugs and various doping products is directly lethal. The interaction reform has an ambition to provide more sustainable development by strengthening efforts for health promotion and prevention. The new Public Health Act, which has now been consulted, emphasises that municipalities as such should have greater responsibility for prevention. It is in the municipalities that the population lives and spends most of its time. This means that schools, growth, culture, transport and the environment must also work to prevent. The prevention of doping requires, to a large extent, the involvement of arenas other than the health sector. As of today, we see that the identification and follow-up of different vulnerable groups often does not work optimally. This may be due to insufficient cooperation, insufficient coordination and insufficient information exchange between municipal services, for example in the follow-up to settings and sites where doping abuse occurs. Professional environments have recommended the launch of a national information and awareness campaign on the impact of doping. The campaign should be targeted at young people and material should be developed for primary and secondary school use. Consideration should be given to whether the physical exercise subject should include more instruction on the adverse effects of doping. It is not easy to understand that many volunteers are exposed to the risks and side effects of doping. Some of the explanation is related to mental perception. All 58 pst. of those with doping experience, that they were ashamed of their own bodies. This interpellation addresses doping use outside organised sport. The use is uncontrolled and it is dangerous for those concerned. A few keystrokes on Google show what side effects we talk about when an addict picks up to a hundred times the doses used in the medical context. Serious adverse reactions include high blood pressure, liver damage, increased risk of some cancers and depression. In men, anabolic steroids will dampen the normal production of sex hormones, with subsequent shuffling of sexual organs, sterility, impotence and breast development. These side effects must be brutally and honestly part of the debate and may have some preventive effect. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clearly signaling that doping abuse and doping should also be part of the new Mapping Communication on drug policy, which is to be presented. Antidoping Norway is doing a good job related to the organised sport. They have a long and broad competence to prevent doping and the adverse effects of doping. Now, if we're going to do an equally good job outside of organized sport, it's important to draw alternates on the skills that are already established in sport, and that it is carried on outside the organized sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e238	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing this topic. It has been up to debate several times before, but then without results other than that one will come back to it. The topic of doping abuse we can regularly read or hear about in the media, and the problem seems to be far greater than most of us are willing to believe it was true. Strong stories of abusers and families have been presented to them again via the media. Most of the time, we think of the use of doping drugs as just an organized sport. Checks are being carried out, and revelations are being made in many cases, in order to combat the problem. But it is not just in the organized sport that abuse of these harmful substances takes place. A rapidly growing group that abuses doping drugs, such as anabolic steroids, are young boys who are busy building muscles and bodies, as they look up to the so-called ideals. These are substances which are prohibited from being prepared or stored. We know that these are substances that are very harmful and that use can have very dramatic consequences. It can make the heart grow and become less elastic, and the pumping capacity is getting worse. Heart attacks have been detected in younger men who have used anabolic steroids. At higher doses it can also cause severe liver damage. It seems that tear-off damage is a common problem, as the muscles grow faster than the tendons can tolerate, and the tendon-bound jerks. In the youngest users, the growth may stop completely if the substances are used before the end of puberty. Not least those who abuse these substances experience that they develop easily both anxiety, irritability and increased use of violence. These are worrying side effects of a drug that we know is an increasing problem among young people today. Another substance used by people who want to build muscles quickly is insulin. This has a relatively powerful muscle-building effect. But its use can also have dramatic consequences. One thing is fatigue, cramps, etc., but wrong use can mean unconsciousness and death. These are just some of the methods and substances that young people experiment with, and don't say so little about how far some of these are willing to go, as long as it's not considered criminal. Therefore, the use will not be captured in time for some of these people until it is too late — i.e. too late. cause life-long damage or, in the worst case, cause death. These include: because, naturally, outside organised sport, it is not tested as it is in organised sport, in competitions, etc. As I said, the law is such today that it is permitted to use and at the same time keep as long as it is for its own use, but not allowed to sell, import, produce or store. In the past, an investigation has been carried out to assess the efficacy and causality of use. I believe that it should no longer be necessary to wait or investigate anything more. These substances should be prohibited from being in possession of, and then prohibited from being used. We cannot sit still and watch that so many people and not least that so many young people are destroying themselves by misusing such harmful substances. The NRK had a report about this problem last autumn, where they followed some of those who used anabolic steroids. Here it was found that there is a large market among criminals who distribute and sell these drugs. Here it was shown that this has become a huge market because it is estimated that there are tens of thousands of preferably young boys and men using anabolic steroids. This is a group of addicts growing fast, and which is not much of a focus, precisely because most of these are not in any organized sport. Young people get their lives ruined by doping, and whole families end up in a huge despair as a result of a lack of knowledge about what kind of help is to be offered by the health care system. As I have interpreted it, the government has previously said that they will come back with the question of criminalizing anabolic steroids. In the Soria Moria statement of the Stoltenberg I government, it was said that anti-doping work should be intensified outside the organized sport. So now we're halfway through the second period. The Progress Party hopes now that the debate can lead to swift action. It is high time that all possession and use of anabolic steroids is banned. However, I would like to agree with the Council of State on one point: prevention is very important. Using the social media actively to tell us that the adverse effects are perhaps the most important thing to do. At the same time, I hope you can ban these substances once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e270	I would like to start by thanking Mr Wenche Olsen for addressing this very important issue, namely how we in Norway can learn from the efforts made in organised sport to also combat doping in the unorganised environments. This is a very important issue, which I am very pleased that a representative of the government parties is now addressing. But in this area, we can see that the government is fair. The answers you give to your own depositors are as unclear as those you give to other interpellanters in this room. The right has addressed this question on very many different occasions. The representative of Right André Oktay Dahl asked the Minister of Culture about this in September 2006, the Minister of Justice in March the same year and the Minister of Justice in May 2007. The right has also made two proposals for representatives on the same topic. On the first questions, such as: was about learning from Sweden’s experience with national preventive doping legislation, and the Ministry of Justice replied that this should be addressed in the context of the treatment of new criminal law. When dealing with new criminal laws, this issue is not addressed. It wasn't prepared by the government. The last time the Right took this up was in a draft representative which was discussed in October 2010. The Minister of Justice then replied that this should be dealt with in connection with the report of the Stoltenberg Committee, which was at the hearing. I have searched for the report of the Stoltenberg Committee. The word ‘doping’ is not mentioned once. But it is good to hear that the Minister of Health has obviously started a work to raise this issue in the news of drug policy. I hope that the question raised by the representative Wenche Olsen – namely, the need to build a good national competence environment in this area according to Sweden’s model – will be answered in that big message, and that work will be started, but also the second question, which the Council of State was not at all concerned with, namely the need for national preventive doping legislation to be developed in Norway. Proposals on this, which – as I said – were promoted as late as October by the Right and the Advance Party, were voted down by the Stortinget, and it does not seem that the government is working on that issue yet, although this was announced as early as in the work on the new penal code. There will be a need to keep both of these thoughts in mind at the same time in order to be able to do a good enough job towards this environment. Information and prevention are and will be important, but it is also important that society gives a clear signal that doping is illegal and that national preventive doping legislation is provided. I hope that the Minister of Health in his next post will be able to give an answer as to whether that issue will also be discussed in the context of the crackdown on drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e285	I would also like to thank Mr Wenche Olsen for an important debate. I fully agree that there is a cross of thought that we are very good in the organized sport, but outside we have little to boast about. The focus programme put this on the agenda, among other things. last autumn. In another TV programme, a family emerged and called for knowledge of anabolic steroids in healthcare and knowledge of the relationship between depression and drug use. According to Focus websites, Norway actually makes at least comparisons with other Nordic countries in terms of efforts against daily doping. Every year, Antidoping Norway carries out 3000 tests in top-notch. The State doping phone has one year's work, and that is the only thing, I would say, the concrete action against daily doping that we can follow and evaluate. Finland shall have nine annual anti-doping works outside sport, including: with a web portal where both doping users and health professionals can obtain information. Denmark shall have put in place a number of measures, including: with smileys at the entrance to training centres. This means that the centre accepts to have Antidoping Denmark’s doping inspectors take samples of those who train at the centre, and more than half of the training centres in Denmark are in the scheme. The Christian People’s Party would like to hear the Council of State’s assessment of the introduction of a similar measure in Norway. On the other hand, the Danes have, among other things, spent 5,6 million. Danish kroner for information and training directly related to health workers. Other sectors are also involved in the fight against everyday doping – I mention customs and police – and also in the field of drugs. In Sweden, they have had a ban on doping for ten years now. The Christian People's Party believes that the consequences of doping in society need to be investigated, and it should also be investigated whether doping should be criminalised. It is a clear signal that we see this as a current instrument, and I believe that this can also be assessed in the work being done in the department as of today. Although there is a need to investigate both the extent of doping and a ban on the use of doping, there is already a need for immediate action. In particular, it is important to strengthen the doping telephone and to ensure the training of health professionals. Prevention should be focused primarily on information and awareness-raising activities in schools and sport. I would also like to mention that the 2005-2009 Soria Moria I political platform of the Red-Green Government states that the government should intensify anti-doping work, including outside organised sport. As far as I know, this was not followed up, and the goal of combating doping is also not included in the government statement that the government is working after now. Nevertheless, it is positive that the Minister of Health now says that this should be included in the news of drug policy coming during the spring, if I remember correctly. The right has also addressed this several times in Stortinget, as we were documented. The signals of the Council of State today, so far, are that there should be some action after what I understand, in the drug notification, which is about prevention, information, better treatment, dissemination of skills, dialogue with the doping environment, and that action by other countries should also be assessed. There was no specific mention of the measures to be taken in this area and, where appropriate, when we can see the measures being implemented. It's actually pretty important to have something to say about it. A big message will often draw up policies in the future, and it may be that we are going on for months and perhaps six months before the measures — and new ones — arrive. So I want to ask the Council of State about the good proposal that the representative Wenche Olsen wants to have assessed – whether or not we should have a centre of expertise – becomes part of the work that is now being done in the department in connection with the drug report. The representative of Asphjell was involved in campaigns, which are also a concrete action that could have been taken quite quickly. I would also like to ask whether, in the context of the notification, a ban will be considered and, if necessary, a preventive legislation, as the representative from the Right also asked for. It's exciting, and I'm very happy with the work that's going on, but I'm also impatient and also want these last steps to be assessed in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e315	From a point of view of justice, I would like to say that I am very pleased with this debate here today. It's a very insightful interpellation and with many good posts, which everyone points in the same direction. If I were to highlight some of the judicial aspects of this, which may not have been drawn out that much, I would like to say, among other things. mention that there was a major police operation in 2009 called Project Gullvogel. It started in Sogn and Fjordane police districts. 16 police districts were involved. As a result of that operation, there were 200 criminal cases, and it's certainly just the top of the iceberg. So this is also about nationwide crime in Norway. It is obvious that criminal behaviour is created by many young people who are involved in these networks — as sellers of doping, but also by the illegal payment of money by those who use so-called legitimate doping drugs by sending them black in envelopes to criminal networks, etc. It's obviously a problem, too, in terms of the formation of criminal environments. I have seen in the so-called casuals environments, i.e. the violent environments associated with sport, that, among other things. use of doping agents is a very important part of culture when building up to fights for the battles to be fought. So this question is a big one, both in terms of crime and in relation to the health aspects that have emerged in the debate here. When it comes to how we are going to fight it, I think what has been said about prevention is important. In Norway, we have a method of prevention that deals with both setting limits and prevention in a more positive way. So I would like to stress that also with us in the Workers' Party is the question of the prohibition of use, possession and acquisition of a topical question. State Secretary Aas-Hansen of the Ministry of Justice said in the evening post in 2009 that there is “a lot to do in order not to criminalise the private use of doping drugs in the pharmaceutical law” after the discussions that took place at the time, and warned that the government is conducting an investigation into this. I'm sure you'll get back to it in the big message that the Council of State refers to. But I would like to say that in this area — where you do not have the same type of somatic dependence on drug use as you do in other areas, in the area of drugs — a ban can have as much effect and have as many reasons as in the case of other drugs. So I hope that there is a great deal of emphasis on that discussion in the preparation of the big message. We have heard speeches about this in the debate that I think are insightful. The one that concerns arguments against a ban in relation to the fact that it is difficult for the police, for example. enforcement is relevant, but those arguments are equally relevant in relation to many other norm-setting laws that we have in Norway, which we use to set limits, and not necessarily to enforce them in any situation. I believe that especially against youth groups who make choices without being involved in criminal environments in advance, such norm-setting laws will be more important than in many other fields. Because you start on a life course and form a life pattern when you are exposed to people who market such drugs and who are in training environments that could be healthy. But those young people who are really in healthy environments and want to train their body positively can get their life cycle ruined at an early stage of these environments. Therefore, the issue of a ban will be more relevant in terms of prevention – in my view – than in many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e332	First, I have to thank those who have participated in this interpellation debate. I think it has been a good debate, and I am pleased with the commitment to this important matter. I think that if we don't get a grip on this, it'll evolve quickly. I've spent most of my time talking about young guys, because that's where we see the biggest abuse. But it's scary that there are also messages about young girls who are now using anabolic steroids, with the consequences it has for them. Maybe they're experiencing loss of menstruation, maybe they're getting beard growth, maybe they're getting a deep voice. I guess we don't know if the late effects are going to be the same for the girls as for the boys. Recently, I've heard that there are more and more men in the forty-year crisis, who seem to be decaying, who see an opportunity in anabolic steroids to fix it – all to try to achieve the ideal. In their pursuit, they may choose to ignore the side effects. They're probably good at the consequences of using it, but maybe they're thinking that there's something they're going to do for a short period of time. But it's probably easier to start than to quit. The representative of Stordalen noted that the ban was very important. I agree that there is something we need to assess, but at the same time, the representative himself says that insulin is one of the preparations that is also being misused. There are a lot of different drugs being abused, and I guess we can't ban them all. I think the absolutely important thing we can do is to inform and prevent. I hope that the debate here today is a small contribution to getting further focus on the matter, and that we can get action that can inform and prevent us from getting new boys into such an abuse. But then I agree that we need to put in place some sanctions, and we need to spread knowledge both to the school community and the health care community, so that we can recognise the symptoms and have knowledge of how to help them out of the abuse. So finally, I would like to thank all the parents who have stood up and shared their stories with us to prevent more people from experiencing the same thing they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e348	There is no doubt that we need to use the environments of competence we have, as I also said in my previous post, and the Ministry of Health and Health has good dialogue with them just to increase knowledge, and to spread knowledge abroad. Of course, we will also look at experiences from other countries when we are working on the big news, where we have said that the use of doping will be well placed and widely discussed. What is nearby is, of course, the experience from Sweden and Denmark, which have chosen different approaches to doping, to criminalisation and prohibition, which of course has the advantage of giving a strong signal, but which we from other areas, especially in the area of drug policy, know is not always enough. That is why I very much agree with all those who have advocated prevention, early intervention, and especially information for young people. There is also no doubt that some of the venues where young people meet, where they can use dope, are training centres. Therefore, it is particularly interesting the experience they have from Denmark, where they have training centres where testing occurs. Of course, there are also instruments and measures that we need to discuss in the context of the Single European Act. We will continue to work on this, both in the Storing Message and otherwise. We very much agree with what has come up here, that here it is important to use a lot of tools to reach many, not least young people, who we really want to protect. We want good health, and we want to focus on the positive in good health, and we need to work actively against drugs that break down the body.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e359	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e375	There has never been more alcohol drink in Norway than today. Nor have the damage been more extensive. At the same time, our attitudes to alcohol have never been more liberal. This is the starting point for my interpellation. Alcohol is one of our biggest societal problems. Nevertheless, alcohol and alcohol use have become increasingly common, accepted and generalised in society. In my view, the more liberal attitudes contribute to the harmlessness of alcohol as a commodity. Several have described what is happening, as a culture of glory around alcohol use. In my view, this contributes to an increase in the consumption of alcohol in the population. This is particularly bad for the many children and young people who are currently suffering from alcohol abuse by adults. Alcohol appears today as both the most commonly used drug in Norway and the most commonly used drug-related disorders. 120,000 children and young people live in a state threatened by other people’s drug abuse. Alcohol is in our part of the world the second major cause of early death and ill health. In 2008, according to the National Health Institute, alcoholic beverages equivalent to 6.7 litres of pure alcohol per person per year were marketed. This is probably 40 pst. increase since 1993 and a doubling in consumption since 1960. However, on a European scale, Norwegian consumption remains low. In the United Kingdom, sales are higher than 8 litres of pure alcohol per capita per year, and in countries such as France, Germany and Russia, between 10 and 12 litres are sold. It shows that the Norwegian alcohol policy, with a focus on measures regulating price and availability, has, after all, had its function. Our challenge is that alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing. Norway is moving in the opposite direction to what we now see in several European countries, where alcohol consumption is falling. The increase in alcohol consumption in Norway is not least a development contrary to the overall national objective of reducing the average consumption of alcohol in the population. It should worry the Storting. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, about 5 pst. by the population of Norway dependent on alcohol. It is estimated that approx. one in 10 develops a drug-related disorder during life. The average breakdown of alcohol consumption in Norway appears to be stable for around 14,5–15 years, but the Institute of Public Health also reports that 24 pst. alcohol has been tried by school students/children of the age of 10 and that 39 pst. students in their childhood report drinking so much alcohol that they have been really drunk. The positive thing is that the increase in consumption among young people aged 15 to 20 appears to have stagnated. In recent years, consumption has actually declined somewhat in that group. We know that men drink considerably more than women, but the consumption among women has increased faster than among men. It's also a fact that 40 pst. by pregnant women in Norway are not totally pregnant during pregnancy. The consequences of the use of alcohol by the population are serious. According to the Health Directorate’s report submitted in the autumn, alcohol may be associated with some 60 different diseases and conditions such as: cancer, cardiovascular disease, mental illness and harm to the unborn child. In 2007, it was reported that about Three hundred and fifty people died from alcohol-related causes in this country. Among these, there were more than twice as many men as women. By comparison, the number of drugrelated deaths in Norway has stabilised at around 200–300 people per year. An additional 1000 are expected to die each year from diseases and accidents caused by alcohol consumption. Alcohol is one of the leading causes of death among young people aged 15–29 years. There is reason to believe that half of those killed in road accidents are related to a driver who has driven shortly after taking alcohol, illicit drugs or drugs. In 2008, less than 4,000 hospitalisations in somatic hospitals were caused by alcohol-related disorders. Most of the hospitalisations were caused by acute poisonings and alcohol-related mental disorders, but liver damage was also a large group. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, there is every reason to believe that a much larger number of interventions relate to drug use. This will in particular apply to submissions for the treatment of various injuries. Every year it is estimated that about 70,000 injuries and accidents can be related to alcohol use. It's estimated that 50 pst. Of the patients in the country’s acute psychiatric wards, drug use has been problematic. In addition to health damage, we know that alcohol has a number of social adverse effects, not least for children in families with alcohol problems. In a survey, almost half a million adults in the Nordic countries say that they have been plagued by other people’s alcohol use in the last year. 300,000 women report being afraid of a full person in public places, and 47,000 women are physically injured by a full person every year. I have tried to explain that alcohol use affects the entire population. Alcohol use is not just a private matter. Alcohol use in society is an important health policy issue, but it is equally a central social policy issue. Prevention of alcohol problems was an important part of the development of modern Norway. The theme was high on the agenda for many of the social movements that created the welfare community over a hundred years. I mention the labour movement, the abstinence movement, the women's movement, the Church, the playful movement and youth movement. Central statesmen and civil society builders after World War II stood out as totalists and clear role models. Alcohol was seen as an obstacle to development, both for individuals and for society. Today we do not find the same opinions, and the theme is far from having the same position. On the contrary, alcohol, alcohol use and alcohol damage account for an increasing proportion of public space. There will be fewer and fewer white, non-alcoholic zones in society. More and more people are experiencing drinking pressure. While you had to have a reason to drink alcohol before, you now have to have a reason not to. Commercial marketing and editorial mention of alcohol are becoming increasingly widespread in cultural, sporting, entertainment and media. The availability of alcohol in all categories has increased and prices fall as a result of increased purchasing power. The alcohol has become the product that Norwegian media market most systematically. Alcohol is also, in my view, under-communicated and, to a far lesser extent, brought forward in the large, ongoing social debates. For example, we should. has had much more focus on alcohol use and policy in the major debate last year on sick leave. Alcohol use is not a minor cause of sick leave, both short-term and long-term sick leave. It is estimated that an increase of one litre per year in total consumption per capita over 15 years of age leads to 13 pst. increased sick leave among men. We should focus more on alcohol use in the debate on disability and exclusion from work. We should focus more on alcohol use and on alcohol policy in the debate on child protection. We should focus more on alcohol use and alcohol abuse in the debate on health care priorities. The question is whether we can afford it, and whether we allow alcohol abuse and alcohol-related harm to take up so much space and seize so much of the health care resources. There would probably be many emergency wards, medical guards and orthopaedic wards that could either be closed or severely reduced on weekends, if all drug-related referrals disappeared. The question is how much space we have to fill in public space, and how much disadvantage we as a society should accept. It's interesting to see that we don't find the same socio-economic pattern of alcohol consumption that we have for smoking, diet and physical activity. Perhaps this is precisely one of the reasons why alcohol policy does not receive the same attention in the public debate that I experience that both drug policy and tobacco policy are receiving. Today, it is true that many have easier to discuss restrictive smoking than proposals aimed at restricting access to alcohol. Indeed, alcohol consumption and the frequency of alcohol consumption are increasing with increasing education and income. Data from the period 1993-2000 show that men with university education drank 26 pst. more alcohol per day. years than men with primary education. For women, the corresponding number was 68 pst. However, fewer people become alcohol addicts in these groups compared to those with low education and income. This means that although the increase in alcohol use is most closely linked to the high-wage group and those with the highest level of education, there are other groups that pay the highest bill. Therefore, working towards a reduction in alcohol consumption has a large social aspect. My main question to the Council of State is how the government will contribute to a national commitment to change attitudes and regain respect for alcohol as a significant factor for poor public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e415	The interpellant Kjersti Toppe addresses a very important issue. Alcohol consumption is increasing while both young people and adults lack knowledge of the adverse effects of alcohol and of how alcohol can be linked to many diseases. There is a tendency to generalise or minimize adverse effects. The attitudes of society and individuals towards alcohol are determined by a number of factors. Alcohol is a source of joy and pleasure to many, and is often considered indispensable in festive association. At the same time, the medal has a dark backside with abuse and social problems, sickness, injuries and loss of well-being. In rich, industrialised countries, alcohol is the main risk factor for the loss of healthy years, next to tobacco. The negative consequences not only affect drinkers but also relatives, the local environment, workplaces and society as a whole. Compared to other European countries, Norway has a low total alcohol consumption, which was also covered by the interpellant. We have used many tools to regulate the availability of alcohol and reduce demand. Appropriations and the wine monopoly scheme restrict availability, while charges and awareness-raising instruments help to reduce demand. Since the 1930s, we have had strict per mill legislation in traffic. This is a key instrument for regulating the consumption of alcohol in risk situations. Nearly all EU countries have now introduced a per million limit of 0.5 or more stringent and have had a positive result on road safety. Getting people to drink less can be a challenge, not least because alcohol gives many an immediate and positive effect to the individual. Moreover, the absolute risk of serious injury or disease resulting from own drinking is low for most, and some health damage will only be noticed after many years. The government is working on several measures to change attitudes to alcohol and to prevent alcohol from falling into harm to health and well-being. The ban on advertising is important in order to limit alcohol consumption, particularly among young people. The prohibition also indicates that alcohol is a product with a number of possible adverse effects and that there is a need for special regulation of that product. Although alcohol is a legal product, it is not a regular product. Therefore, it is important to maintain a strict advertising ban. The government attaches great importance to continuing the exemption from the Audiovisual Services Directive on the advertising of alcohol in foreign television broadcasts shown in Norway and has therefore actively worked towards the EU in this area. Attitude-building is an important instrument for achieving the objectives of alcohol policy. Attitudes and behaviour are created and can be changed by information and knowledge. This has been highlighted by the Government through information, training, cooperation and control measures. The Action Plan for the drugs field aims to strengthen the information work. The Health Directorate will focus on alcohol and health in 2011. Prevention and early intervention are a high priority. For several years, they have been doing awareness-raising work through information campaigns aimed at pregnant women. Last autumn, they launched a new campaign against alcohol use during pregnancy and a TV campaign on alcohol use in association with children and young people. A campaign targeting parents to teenagers shall be relaunched. The campaign is called ‘set limits’ and it emphasises the importance of parents as limiters and role models for alcohol. It is also important that municipalities are aware of their responsibilities and use the very good possibilities for monitoring and reaction provided by the alcohol law. We have launched a series of measures to increase knowledge and use of control and response capabilities. The Health Directorate has arranged for municipalities to launch the ‘Responsible Hostship’ programme. It is about information, training and control measures for the sale and donation of alcohol. The aim is to prevent acute adverse effects and to limit children and young people’s access to alcohol. Even more often, we see positive mention of alcohol in all kinds of media. Information work by the authorities must constantly compete with other influence channels that have a different message. This is challenging. Editorial reference and non-target items are not defined as advertising by law. Therefore, such reference is not prohibited either. But I would like to stress that the editors have a great responsibility in assessing the content and extent of news and reports on alcohol and alcohol use. Voluntary organisations have a very important role to play in drug prevention. For 2011 it is allocated 94 million. to these organisations. Many measures help to raise awareness of alcohol damage, to strengthen local alcohol policies and to support non-alcoholic zones. It can be in traffic, in employment, at sea, in sport and where children and young people live. This effort is important, not least because the non-alcoholic zones are under pressure because of increased alcohol consumption and changing drinking patterns. A high proportion of alcohol consumption takes place in the context of working life, particularly in the context of job travel, seminars, Christmas tables and other social occasions. AKAN is supported in preventing drug problems in the workplace. If we are able to capture behavioural problems and signals of bad alcohol use in the past, we have better opportunities to prevent problems from developing and changing attitudes. That is why we need to see awareness-raising work and early intervention in the context. This applies to children, young people and adults who have, or are at risk of, a risk of alcohol use. Thus, the Health Directorate has developed a guide to early intervention in the field of drugs. Over the course of the year, the government will present a new growth report on drug policy. Alcohol will have an important place in this message. We need to constantly assess what measures are appropriate to achieve the objective of reducing the adverse effects of alcohol, and awareness-raising work will be central. Alcohol is one of the major risk factors for disease and death. This challenge needs to be met with a comprehensive instrument package, which also includes awareness-raising and information work as well as restrictive regulatory and charging measures such as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e447	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State shows that the government is working on several measures to change the grips of alcohol and to put in place several preventive measures. In particular, the Council of State refers to the ban on advertising as an important measure to reduce alcohol consumption and to a strict ban on advertising by the government. It's positive. The Council of State also indicates that editorial references and non-target items of alcohol are not defined as advertising by law and are not prohibited. I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply points out that editors also have a great responsibility when it comes to assessing the content and extent of news and reports on alcohol and alcohol consumption. Everything cannot be regulated politically, even if we have to ensure that the law on advertising bans are followed. I would like to refer to a report from the Blue Cross entitled ‘Alcohol selling newspapers — selling alcohol’, where it appears that consumer information on the alcohol product fills in a regular week six whole days only in the four largest newspapers; VG, Today’s Business, Evening Post and Dagbladet. In one year, this becomes 312 health pages in the most valuable editions. A number of regional newspapers follow the same pattern, as well as product reviews in the flora of websites, magazines and televisions. In my view, these massive product reviews help undermine the advertising ban. They are not illegal, but they tend to remind us of several opportunities to drink alcohol, for example. holidays, Christmas holidays and various sporting events. That they counteract the public's holding campaigns is obvious. However, the detention campaigns against alcohol use in pregnancy and alcohol use in relation to children and young people that we have seen in the fall are nevertheless very important. The fact that voluntary organisations have an important role to play in the prevention work, I am also fully in agreement with the Council of State, and it is positive that work against municipalities has been strengthened. Governments are notifying a new major drug policy message and that alcohol will have an important role to play in this message. That's the most necessary thing. I hope that in this case we can lay the foundation for a national lift to change society's attitude to alcohol. Then I think we also have to challenge the business community, the employee organisations, the employers' organisations and the media and have them on the team, in addition to voluntary teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e464	The ban on advertising is important. I have a great deal of understanding of the dilemma that the interpellant Toppe is dealing with regarding the mention of alcohol that is in many newspapers every week, and I would like to underline, as I did in my post, the editors' responsibility here. With regard to the strict instruments we have used in Norway, it is also true that once we have accepted regulations, once we have accepted wine monopolies, for restrictions and for control measures, there is something that depends on the acceptance of the population. I feel that in Norway it is acceptable for this in the population. It is also the case that strict regulation itself has an eye-catching effect. Early intervention is important. In terms of increasing knowledge of what to do when, for example: see unwanted alcohol use, in children and young people in particular, I would just like to stress the work done by the Health Directorate in the guide ‘From Concern to Action’, and also the competence of the regional drug competence centres to contribute to the increased knowledge and guidance of municipalities. It's a very important work. At present, the most important thing we do is to make awareness-raising work for children and young people, and also to respond if children and young people use alcohol at an early age. The fact that we are clear at age limits in Norway is also an important signal to limit alcohol use. Although we in Norway have low alcohol consumption compared to other countries, it is not that we should rest on the laurels, because we see, despite all the increase in alcohol consumption, and it is important that we work in many fields to limit, and also to provide knowledge of, adverse effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e475	First, thank you to the interpellant for taking up a very important matter. In the decade that we have now left behind, alcohol consumption increased almost every year, and from 2000 to 2009, alcohol consumption in Norway increased by almost 20 pst. Many suggest that alcohol consumption in 2010 will also be at a record high level since it began to measure it. The increase in Norway comes at a time when many European countries have either managed to reduce or stabilise alcohol consumption. Despite the fact that alcohol creates pleasure and joy for many, there are also major public health problems and social problems associated with increased consumption. We know today that alcohol can be linked to a damage panorama of more than 60 different diseases and is the second most common cause of early death and poor health, after tobacco. Norwegian alcohol policy shall be based on public health principles and shall be knowledge-based. There is considerable support in research for effective action on alcohol taxes and restrictions limiting the time of sale and the number of outlets and outlets. Good enforcement of the minimum age for the purchase of alcohol also helps to limit alcohol consumption. Research also shows that monitoring and limited counselling for patients at risk of alcohol consumption can reduce the alcohol intake of these patients. The aim is to reduce the damage of alcohol to the individual, the family and the community. The interpellant notes that it is not just those who drink alcohol, who may experience negative consequences. We know that several thousand children get their growth marked by alcohol use. Every year about 50,000 women are physically injured by a full person, while nearly 70,000 men experience the same. We also had a debate earlier on the registration of all submissions related to the use or abuse of alcohol or other drugs. I think it's important to be knowledge based on that as well. Who's going to the hospital, and what's the background for them going to the hospital? The increasing consumption of alcohol will give us many more challenges in the entire sector in the coming years. We know a lot about risk groups and the consumption of young people. Unfortunately, we do not know as much about older people’s alcohol use as the consequences. An EU-funded research review suggests that the number of alcohol-related hospitalisations and deaths among the elderly is increasing. This is due, inter alia, to: reduced ability to break down alcohol in the body and unfortunate combinations with medicines used by the elderly. Today’s elderly people have a low alcohol consumption. What concerns European researchers is the generation that comes after, which has a much higher consumption than is the case today. It is likely that even more people will suffer from health problems as a result of older people, and the need for health care will be increased. In Norway, Health Directorate and County of Oslo and Akershus have supported a project in St. Hanshaugen City on the elderly and drugs. The project shows that 8-9 pst. of the district’s recipients of home services over 67 years of age are likely to have a drug problem. By catching up more and following up well, one hopes to achieve better quality of life and to prevent or postpone the need for care services. The cooperation reform points out that not only can we treat ourselves in a healthy way, we must also prevent in a much better way. This is when we have to start the prevention work among today's middle-aged people. We know that many start early in planning their retirement life. A goal for us must be that more start earlier on planning a healthy old age. Maybe we should not just think about young people and young adults when developing information campaigns. Also, good adults should be a target group for prevention work – not only for their own health, but also because we are role models for today’s young people. Good public health is about physical activity and healthy diet, but it is also about less sugar, less tobacco and less alcohol consumption. We need to have good information campaigns, not only with the thumb down, but also with the thumb up in terms of what is healthy and good, and what we can do to get better health. That way, I think we're reaching more groups, not just young people, but also good adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e496	The inter-pellant approach to the issue is probably somewhat different from mine. The effects and adverse effects of alcohol have been discussed for centuries. There is a cross-political consensus that it is important to limit adverse effects and health problems caused by the use of drugs, including excessive use of alcohol. The disagreement arises when we look at the means by which the different batches will be able to deal with this. In my opinion, this concerns both social and human views, based on the ideological anchoring of the respective parties. Alcohol debates are often marked by moralism. In my opinion, both moralism and alcohol have come to be, and in the years to come too many debates have emerged. There was drunk fermented honey water in Ethiopia 10,000 years ago, and we know the meat from Snorre. The mention of the alcohol is also found in several of our great authors – Wildenvey and Wergeland and a distant relative of me, Hans Hunter, to mention someone. When Wergeland met his fellow student Frants Hansen, he actually took four large glass of port wine before lunch. It was the role models of the day. But then it was other times. For in 1833, the consumption of spirits, including homeburning, was 12.3 litres of pure alcohol per capita, not least as a result of farmers ’ breakthrough in potato cultivation and people’s belief in the medicinal properties of spirits. From 1851, we get more accurate statistics on alcohol consumption in this country, but it is worth noting that home-produced alcohol, tourist imports and smugglers are not included in the figures. In the last half of the 1800s, the authorities tried different charges for both the final product, the raw materials and the manufacturing process. Sometimes it had an effect on consumption, but often not. Then we got the ban time. It is characterised by the fact that consumption went from one intoxicator to the other because the law changed, until the referendum in 1926, which abolished the ban on spirits. After normalizing the composition, we had a turn from spirits to wines, from stronger to weaker drinks. After the war we got a slightly more liberal alcohol policy with several outlets and outlets. The total alcohol consumption today is roughly as it was 150 years ago, at 6.7 litres. Some of the changes we see today are the results of a globalized world, and that people travel on vacation to countries that have a completely different approach to alcohol consumption than we do. We see from the statistics that alcohol consumption is increasing in good times and decreasing in worse times. From this point of view, one should believe that the changes we are now seeing are a decline in Europe as a result of the financial crisis. We see a rotation of the alcohol consumption. While spirits played the leading role for our ancestors, beer now constitutes a little over 40 pst., wine a little over 30 pst. and spirits about 20 pst. – thus again a turn from stronger to weaker drinks. We see that alcohol consumption is related to other factors, such as: after age 50, the proportion of regular alcohol consumption is increasing sharply among highly educated people. In men in the 1950s, the proportion of regular alcohol consumption is more than double compared to those 10 years younger and almost tripled for women. I hope that doesn't make the Minister of Knowledge lower the ambitions of PISA and PIRLS, and I don't see that 50-year-old women who drink red wine are a major social problem. What's worth noting is the drinking pattern. While we see a more even consumption in highly educated older people, we see that young people drink less often, but consume a lot at a time. Today’s strict drug policy, with high taxes and extensive regulations on the sale of alcohol, creates smuggling and illicit production. The party believes that a more liberal alcohol policy will lead to a more relaxed relationship with alcohol and healthier drinking habits, and that we get the circulation of alcohol into legal forms. The best preventive alcohol policy lies in information activities and awareness of individual responsibility for their own actions. My anatomy teacher said if we take 5 cl of alcohol a day, it's good for the cardiovascular system. But don't tell anyone, he added. When we see researchers today calling for the public not to know about the positive effects of alcohol consumption, it scares me. It endangers the credibility of research. The Progress Party, through its budgets and proposals, has shown that we will focus more on prevention and factual information. We want alcoholic beverages into legal forms. We want control measures and predictable responses in the event of a breach of the law. We do not believe that guardianship, prohibition, restrictions and increased charges are the way to go. Overall, there is something that is not in the discussion on alcohol consumption, and it is quality of life. There's a striking difference in mood if you eat at Bondestova in relation to an English pub. Socrates pronounced himself 400 years B.C.E. on excessive alcohol use. He compared it to a flower that got too much water. He said, "That's the way people are with us, too." If we go after beech, it won't be long before the body and the wit begin to shake, and what we say is just nonsense. On the other hand, if the servants make sure that we only get small amounts to drink at a time, the wine just puts us in a better mood. Those were wise words from Socrates. I mean, it's all about drinking culture. Storm flooding, with subsequent berrying, is clearly a Nordic phenomenon and probably a result of the alcohol policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e526	I would like to thank the interpellant for having raised an exciting and important debate. Alcohol is a commodity in Norway, but it is not a common commodity. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus that alcohol is a product to be regulated, both through price and availability, and that one sees both the positive and the negative aspects of this product. From a public health perspective, there is no doubt that alcohol use is one of the most serious challenges we face, even though most of the countries in the world where alcohol use is legal, will in some way view Norway as an ideal in terms of our alcohol policy and our results related to public health work against alcohol. However, there are some negative developments, including the inter-pellant and the Minister of Health and Care. The explanations of this are probably a little bit different. The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn was in on some of them. It is quite clear that it is part of an globalisation trend. The challenge is, of course, that if we keep our Norwegian sacred drinking culture, but combine it with a southern European weekly drinking culture, the sum will be very challenging for public health. The second is that there is also clearly a result of a significantly more equal society — part of the increase in alcohol consumption is due to women drinking more and more similarly to men. From a public health point of view, I agree with many of the points made by the Minister of Health and Welfare, which it was essential to highlight in the context of the work on a comprehensive communication on drug policy. I think it's important to focus the new effort on some areas where we know we're getting the best results. It will be looking at ways of further raising the initial age. We know that is one of the most effective tools that we can have, especially from a public health perspective, to raise the initial age will also have a major impact on alcohol consumption for the rest of our lives. The protection of the ‘white’ zones in society, such as driving, such as pregnancy, such as working life, such as sport and working with children and young people, is quite a consensus. Although there is broad agreement on these areas, they are being challenged. We see it in the area of women and pregnancy, but not least I think it may be labour-related challenges, which may be one of those areas where it has become more and more accepted that alcohol has become more natural, which creates problems, not least for those who are drug addicts and who participate in the labour market. The third area is linked to giving, to getting the donation into order, to ensure that this industry is more strongly influenced by serious actors, and that one has more effective means of getting the unprofessional players out of the industry. For those who have been hit and who have become dependent on alcohol, there are still major challenges related to the provision of treatment. We see that in the debate on drug dependence, there is a very strong focus on those who rely on illicit drugs, but a significantly less focus on those who are addicted to alcohol, although alcohol dependence remains the biggest drug problem in Norwegian society. There, decision-makers could play an important role, which unfortunately they do not do to a sufficient extent today. Many of the decision-makers are regularly in contact with those who are alcohol addicts, without necessarily leading to an aid in initiating treatment. In terms of treatment methods and treatment provision, I think it is also important to learn from other countries about treatment for alcohol dependence. There is one view that the AA treatment system, the follow-up to after-care, is much more developed in other countries, and we should also assess, in the context of the drug policy notification, whether it should not contribute to this in Norway to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e550	I would like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for a very good interpellation text. So far, there has been a good debate, recognising that a high level of alcohol use can lead to a number of problems and challenges both for different sectors of society and for different large groups — I am thinking in particular of children and young people and not least of those who become addicted and ill by an excessive use. I think the posts so far have reflected on this, perhaps with the exception of the Advance Party, where one was very concerned about highlighting the liberal alcohol policy they had. Of course, the word ‘prevention’ was referred to as ‘inhalation’. But the debate seems to me to be very good overall. Today’s theme is too difficult for many, either because they themselves struggle with alcohol consumption, or because they are close to someone who does. It is still a taboo to be alcohol dependent, despite the fact that addiction is a disease in line with other diseases. The lack of transparency about this makes many not getting help, and does not dare to seek help. It also affects children and relatives. We had a similar situation 10–12 years ago when we started the Mental Health Excursion Plan – this with taboo and other. Much good was done in that context, and we could do a similar work related to the transparency of alcohol. We also know that alcohol and mental disorders are partly related. Some reason why this is a difficult topic to talk about is that joy and sorrow are linked to the same thing. I refer this to the statements made by Russian scientist Sverre Nesvåg to our country on 22 January last year that we dare not challenge a drink that gives us a lot of food, as he said. He believes that many people have so much pleasure in alcohol that we don't know how to discuss joy and risk at the same time. He compares alcohol consumption to driving — the risk of something happening increases the longer you sit behind the wheel. This is why the work done by the organisation AV-OG-TIL is so important. They focus on non-alcoholic zones, i.e. situations in which alcohol may cause harm or insecurity. By creating driving rules for when it's appropriate to drink alcohol, and when it's not appropriate, we can prevent the negative side of alcohol. It is almost generally accepted that driving and alcohol, for example, do not belong together. I hope that we can also get this type of connection when it comes to getting together with children. For adults, it is actually difficult to discover when a child feels that a company or a party goes from being comfortable to being uncomfortable because of adults’ alcohol consumption. Furthermore, alcohol and working life and alcohol and sports are other such areas that it is important to think through, which many have experienced. As we have heard, alcohol consumption has increased in recent years. Only the wine monopoly has increased its sales from 65 million litres to 75 million litres in the last five years. Several have indicated that we know today the relationship between alcohol and health damage. Let me mention a concrete measure of what no one else has mentioned today, and that is that the number of emergencies caused by alcohol poisoning has increased. From 2000, the number has increased from 1 000 to 2 000. There are nearly 60 different diagnoses associated with alcohol use in addition to violence. It is also a phenomenon that in a Swedish survey, which we also find in Norway, health professionals hesitate to deal with alcohol use with their patients. Six out of ten general practitioners and each other district nurse talk to their patients about their alcohol habits. There are more than once, but there is still a taboo related to alcohol in spite of its health effects. I am not aware that we have had a similar study here in Norway. But we can just think about this in Stortinget. How many of us have experienced that the doctor, or other doctors we have gone to, has asked about alcohol use? I think there are many who will answer no to that. I finally want to say that I think the supervisor to whom the Council of State refers if early intervention is very good. These campaigns we have had, to be implemented, not least against children and young people, and ‘Responsible Hostship’, are also very important. But I want to mention one measure that no one has mentioned, and that is that in the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, as it is now called, there is also a very good parental guidance programme aimed at parents with children in school, kindergarten, etc. It can be run in schools, kindergartens and health centres. It's clear, it's been used in some cases, and it's a very well professionally designed arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e571	I would like to thank those who have participated in the interpellation debate, and I think there have been many good articles. I've been most busy focusing on getting more space in society, getting more generalized, unhazardous and more acceptable, and minimizing the health risk. There was probably one post that differed a little bit, which I think is an example of this happening, and that was the post from Gåsvatn from the Progress Party. Much has been said about the importance of fences around the white, non-alcoholic zones. I want to show you in particular what Jorod Asphjell said about the fact that we now have to focus on more groups, especially what he said about older people and alcohol consumption. That's where I think he has a big point. It is said that it is a trend of globalisation that strikes us, which is also a result of good life. It may be, but we also have to look at what's happening in the other countries. We are the country that has an increase in alcohol consumption now. France and other countries in Europe have a decline. France has submitted alcohol labelling and warning marking to pregnant women, e.g. So things happen out there. We also have to follow along and show that we're going to continue to be the best in the class. Otherwise, I am glad that many of those who have spoken have joined the restrictive policies and instruments we have, and I agree that staggering work is important not only to children and young people but also to parents. I'm very busy, and I've seen so much in relation to what children are experiencing, how we're growing up are terribly bad previews in many contexts. Sports seemed to me to have actually taken thanks. In the Norway Cup, for example, it's... the total prohibition of drinking alcohol in the presence of children. I think they're very good at signaling that they have such a profile. It's not like that on all football cups – at least I can tell you that. This is very much about holding work, about what we accept. We in Stortinget are responsible for what we are bringing forward in the debates, and it also has other social actors. Thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e585	I think this too has been a very interesting and good debate, and a very important debate. It's kind of interesting to note that all of the parties' posts, except for the Advance Party, went in the same direction. It is striking that the Progress Party emphasises that they do not believe in restrictions or fees. They think that campaigns and information will be what's going to work. But if, in addition, there are no other means than limitations, the signals go in the wrong direction. At least I find it encouraging that there are no other parties who believe in that alcohol policy. The representative, Höie, said that there were other countries that looked at Norway’s alcohol policy. Yeah, I'm actually experiencing that. There are many others, not least in the EU, who look at Norway’s alcohol policy and what we are doing, and how, after all, we have been able, even if we have increased consumption, to be low on the consumer list. Nor is there any doubt that globalisation and the better economy have given Nordics other drinking habits. Many people have said that we also combine the old drinking habits on weekends with drinking more often and in the week. Many have mentioned this with non-alcoholic zones. It's incredibly important that we keep those zones as important signals, where children, young people and adults are together, and that adults there are good role models. The representative, Laila Davøy, was concerned that many organisations are doing an important job, and I can only stress that. A lot of people do it. We also have good treatment services, but, as also mentioned in the debate, it is clear that it is important to look at experiences from other countries. Then there's one thing that's special in Norway, and we're going to have to deal with – I'm glad that there's also been a focus on it from the media – and that's the control of tipping points. We have to get rid of the unprofessional and prevent overdrinking, because there is no doubt that the outdraft, although perhaps only a small part of total alcohol consumption, is a strong cause of harm and violence in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e596	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e612	For two periods, I have been so lucky to be part of the Great Britain delegation to the Council of Europe. The work of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and committees is very relevant to the work we are doing here in the United Kingdom, but the problem is that there are so few who know about it. We in the European Council delegation have decided to do something about this, so we are going to do more than before to raise matters in this Chamber, which we have been able to discuss in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. The space population situation is one of the most topical issues at present, although the issue has been on the Council of Europe's agenda for a long time. The commitment of the Council of Europe to the space people dates back to 1969, when the first official documents were adopted on the situation of gypsies and other travellers in Europe. It's not a good story – we know that. The history of the Gypsy in Europe is the history of ethnic cleansing, systematic and structural discrimination, which extends all the way to our days. It should therefore take 20 years from the establishment of Europe's own human rights organisation, until the issue of the rights of the Roma was put on the agenda. It's quite a long time and probably says about what attitudes were prevailing, even right after World War II, and what we know took place that time. So the policy of the majority communities towards the sigina, now the space people, consists of a series of assaults and lack of respect for their particular culture as a traveler. And without respect, you don't get an understanding of what's different. The kids may have been the biggest losers. Adapted schooling options have been the same. Then children become adults, have their own children, and history repeats. Until 1983, before the Council of Europe put the children of the Roma on the agenda, through organized schooling of teachers working with the Roma. Ten years later, in 1993, the Roma became a European minority. With this, the living conditions of the Roma became an important theme of the Council of Europe’s highest priority areas of action. It is about the protection of minorities, the fight against racism and the fight against social exclusion. In 1995, an expert committee on space and travel was set up, involving 40 of the 47 member countries of the Council of Europe, including Norway. The Committee shall be composed of government representatives. It visits individual countries and provides advice and recommendations to Member States on policy developments in education, health, work and housing. In 2008, the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a recommendation on a comprehensive space policy. I'm aware that things take time, and that one can't expect the consequences of injustice over many, many decades to change in the very short term. Nevertheless, once again, two years after — in June 2010 — the Member States were asked to take action to ensure the fundamental rights of the Roma population. Only weeks after that decision, some Member States contributed to the contrary, through the transport of whole groups of space people. The situation led to an urgent situation in the October session of the Council of Europe, which took a great deal of distance from this policy. France's transport of the rooms was also the subject of the questionnaire here in the Stortinget last October, through questions raised by the representative Olemic Thommessen. In the Council of Europe, the Secretary-General took the initiative for a separate ministerial summit — also in October last year. The summit, attended by Norway, adopted a declaration on the common European commitment of the Member States to the space people, while stressing the need to implement the main inclusion measures at national, regional and local level. Norway joined that declaration. The Roma make up an estimated 12 million of Europe’s around 730 million inhabitants. In that perspective, the Roma are a very small minority, yet Europe's largest. In Norway, the proportion of the population is even smaller. The figures vary slightly from one public document to another. Some sites are reported to be 300–400, but the most recent estimates suggest that they are about 300–400. 700 people, most of whom have addresses in Oslo. Approximately 200 are assumed to have a permanent residence abroad. 116 of those 700 are pre-school children, 35 of them are abroad. 105 is in primary education, of which 31 are abroad. 73 are between 14 and 19 years of age, of which 40 are living abroad. Numberically, one would think that this was a group that one would somehow be able to handle in a good way, but that's not the way it is. There is clearly a direct link between past abuses and discrimination, and the current situation of the Roma, but we do not have good research on links, causes and effects in this area. In Norway, the Roma have the status of a national minority, with the additional rights it confers on them for the protection and respect of their peculiarity and culture, while at the same time they have the right to participate in society in the same way as all others. Nevertheless, we do not – not so far – despite many investigations and actions. Outside Europe, we see a blossoming of racist-motivated violence that also affects the Roma. They also lack equal access to education, employment, health and housing in line with others. Our government's own action plan to improve the living conditions of the Roma in Oslo shows that the latter is also the situation in Norway. We have our own minority, registered as Norwegian citizens. In addition, some come here as asylum seekers – not many, but some – more to other countries in Europe than here. Trafficking both for prostitution and organised begging takes place across Europe, also here in Norway. So, why is it that we don't move on? In spite of the amount of investigations and money used, developments are rather in the wrong direction according to the government’s own action plan. What can we do with that? Can we get a better overview of the contexts and instruments? Is any of the problem that we constantly address the weaknesses of the space people, their difficult situation, as a marginalized group? Do we forget what is the first commandment in any successful inclusion policy, namely to look for people's forces and their own resources? Gypsy culture is such a positive resource. It arouses the enthusiasm of others, it's what binds the minority together, and gives an identity it can be proud of. Still maybe it's possible to save what's left of it? On the other hand, no one deserves to blacken the situation and make people poorer than they actually are. But anyway, I think we have to take reality into account. We're at best at rest, but signs indicate that we're going in the wrong direction. Representatives of the people of space in Norway themselves highlight three important prerequisites for inclusion: housing, education/work and a place of assembly to take care of their own culture. We need that in Norway today. We have had festivals and fires, but not systematic work in fixed premises, where the space people themselves can take the lead with contributions from the big society. They have it in Sweden. Maybe it's an idea to bet on it here in Norway too? Finally, as a member of the Council of Europe, we have taken on certain obligations to achieve results in this area. We have to report to the Council of Europe. There is no excuse that the state of things is worse elsewhere. We should also be able to see ourselves in the mirror and know that we've done the right thing. I know that the space people and the action plan are on the agenda of the Ministry of Renewal. It is also important to communicate and become part of the public debate in Norway. The stuttering room can be a good place to start. That is why I have allowed myself to ask the Foreign Minister the question: how does he see that we can strengthen the work of improving the living conditions of his own space population, and at the same time contribute to the progress of work at European level?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e638	I would first like to say that I think the intention of the interpellant to bring more debates from the Council of Europe into this Chamber is very good – a good follow-up to a very important area. I would also like to congratulate the interpellant on raising the question and giving a good review of this rather dramatic and often tragic story in Europe, which is a good starting point for the debate. I look forward to providing a detailed presentation of the government's work nationally and internationally to strengthen the living conditions of the space people. The representative takes into account the situation in Europe in the summer of 2010 in relation to the expulsion of aliens from several Member States of the Council of Europe and the subsequent efforts both at European and national level to improve the living conditions of the Roma. The representative further points to the fact that the Roma's own representatives in Norway stress that there are three important prerequisites for inclusion: housing, education and work, as well as a place of assembly where the Roma can take care of their own culture. I had occasion in the Question Time on 13 October last year, on questions from the representative Olemic Thommess, to say that Norway welcomed the initiative of the Council of Europe's Secretary-General for a high-level meeting on the space people and proposed a joint action plan between the EU and the Council of Europe to strengthen the integration of Europe's spaces. Norway fully supported the initiative of Jagland, which I recently repeated in a meeting with him in my office. During the high-level meeting on 20 October last year, efforts were made for the trademark of multicultural coexistence of the Council of Europe in 2010. In an increasingly multicultural Europe, the Council of Europe has a mandate that is becoming increasingly up-to-date and challenging. The Strasbourg Declaration on the Space People, adopted at the High Level Meeting, has the full support of the Government. It refers to the fact that, although primary responsibility for inclusion lies with the national states, and although the main actions need to be implemented at national, regional and local level, the Council of Europe and other European cooperation organisations also have an important role to play in achieving a pan-European approach. From the Norwegian side, we will actively support the actions identified as response areas to address the situation of the Roma in the Strasbourg Declaration. The declaration highlights three main fields of action: Firstly, non-discrimination and the protection of Roma rights, including women’s and children’s rights, and access to justice are highlighted. Secondly, social inclusion is highlighted, where access to education, work, health and housing is important, as well as the further development of languages and culture. Thirdly, international cooperation, where both the Council of Europe, the EU and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, are important, is highlighted. A tangible result of the high-level meeting is the establishment of a training institute for 400 brokers, lawyers and counsellors, as well as a programme of legal guidance so that the Roma can better assert their rights. In order to implement these measures, the Council of Europe decided to triple the resources for this purpose from this year onwards. In the future, we will continue to focus attention on the work of the Council of Europe in this area and contribute to the implementation of activities agreed at the high-level meeting. This will be an important point during the Council of Europe's Foreign Ministers meeting in Istanbul in May under Turkish Presidency. The Secretary-General will focus on multicultural Europe and how to continue to promote peaceful coexistence in a Europe where fundamental democratic values are protected and people live together in intercultural societies. Intercultural challenges will be central — as will recognition of the growing religious radicalisation of many European countries today and the frequent expression of interethnic tensions through acts of violence. In order to clarify these issues, the Secretary-General, Jagland, has appointed a group of wise men under the leadership of former German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who will propose ways of combating intercultural and inter-religious contradictions. There will also be an initial progress report for the follow-up to the Strasbourg Declaration. The meeting will thus be a test piece for continued action in the Council of Europe. With regard to national measures, I would like to point out that in June 2009, the government, as the representative said, presented an action plan to improve the living conditions of the around 700 Norwegian Roma, which is mainly in the Oslo area. The plan includes, inter alia: further development of adult training specifically aimed at Norwegian Roma, a measure operated by the Municipality of Oslo since January 2007 at the Centre for Adult Education at the Centre for the Development of Adult Education. In 2009, a guidance service was established at the Centre to help provide rooms with real opportunities to use established welfare schemes within, for example: education, employment, health and housing. Areas in which the representative was inside are prioritised by the rooms themselves. Both adult and guidance services experience considerable progress. The offer was expanded in 2010 with both more staff and more tasks related to the Government’s Action Plan to improve the living conditions of the Oslo Roma. The guidance service, in contact with the public administration and the first line service, is aware of the general lack of knowledge of the rooms. In order for public establishments and other establishments to meet the rooms in a good manner, it is essential that public establishments and establishments have the necessary skills and knowledge of the culture of the spaces. In the autumn of 2010, new funds were allocated to the Centre and will in the future include: work to make the Roma's lifestyles and culture known in state and municipal businesses. We feel that trust between the Roma and Norwegian authorities is strengthened, I believe, through these measures, and that the efforts made in recent years contribute to a positive development for Norwegian Roma. For example, on 8 April last year, Norwegian Romans first marked the International Day of Space through an open event at the Cultural History Museum. Consultation between the Roma and Norwegian authorities took place on the same day. In the first consultation meeting, it was agreed that the theme of the next meeting should be housing, one of the three fields referred to by the representative. The head of one of the space organisations also made contributions to the Holocaust Memorial on 27 January last year. Those who have participated in adult education at the Oslo Centre express that they have good benefits from teaching, and we have to hope and believe that these examples indicate that a change is taking place, where the Roma are more actively involved in matters relating to them. It is continuously working, in close cooperation with the rooms, to improve integration into all parts of society. The Romans themselves must actively participate in this process and wish to be part of Norwegian society. The government has stepped up the funds allocated for this purpose and granted 5.6 million in the 2011 State budget. kr for actions for Norwegian Spacemen. Information to the large community on the rights of the Roma as a national minority and on their lifestyle and culture as part of the Norwegian cultural heritage are important elements in the anti-discrimination work. A subsidy item in the budget – Grants to national minorities – was created in 1999, with the objective in particular: contribute to ensuring effective participation of national minorities. Funding is also provided for projects aimed at contributing to the organisational development of space and to information on the spaces of the rest of society. As I have said, we must approach the situation of the spaces at both European, national and local level. In many European countries, long work has been done to improve the living conditions of rooms, some with more happiness than others. The Roma are probably the most stigmatized group in Europe today. Major challenges remain. The Norwegian Space Group is relatively small on a European scale, and it is therefore useful for Norwegian authorities to look to other countries and learn from experience gained elsewhere in Europe. We have committed ourselves to upholding the rights of the Roma through both the International Conventions and the Strasbourg Declaration. An important element of the declaration is precisely that actions should be developed in close cooperation with those concerned and with their active involvement. Try using so-called brokers, i.e. persons with a space background as guides between the spaces and the large community have already started up here in Norway. The government has great faith that this is the right action. Rome in Norway is not a homogeneous group, and by playing on the resources that exist in the environment while drawing on international experience, I hope we will see a positive development for Norwegian Roma in the years to come. To conclude, in line with the Strasbourg Declaration, we will ensure that national, regional and local actions go hand in hand with efforts at European level. The Government's action plan has this as its objective. On the Norwegian side, we will continue to draw on experiences from other countries for our own follow-up, and contribute with our experience to further developing a pan-European approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e699	There's not all a series in one post. I just want to start by thanking the Foreign Minister so much for the answer. I think it is reassuring what is being said about how one sees policy at European level in the context of what is happening here, that new measures have been taken and that they have already been implemented. So once again, I would like to stress that it is important that we keep up with the results of what we put in resources and efforts. So I want to use the rest of this second post just to point out something exciting that's going on in other countries. The Secretary of State said we should look at other countries. The Council of Europe has also said on a visit to Norway that we need to look a little to the east, because some countries in Eastern Europe have come much further than many other countries in this area. So maybe it's that we don't have to look very far east, either, but right across the border of our neighboring country, Sweden, which last year presented a preliminary proposal for a rather comprehensive strategy for the space population in Sweden. It's an exciting investigation, which is going way too far to go into detail here now. But there's something about the device at SOU 2010:55, where one starts with a quote from Václav Havel and says that a country's treatment of its space population is a lacmus test of civil society and its democracy. Then one goes on to say that here there is a need for a new perspective, not for the old majority society to deal with the second and foreign culture, but simply to base the further development of policy on a right-wing perspective. And then it says that the project time is over. We have to look at this from a generation perspective and put forward a 20-year strategy in time in the form of a programme that will run for the 20-year period, which will cover an entire generation with three overriding objectives: to close the welfare gap, to increase the power and influence of the space population over their own situation, and so a point I think is quite important: the Swedish call to repair the lack of trust in the majority society of the space population. Because there's so much here from the old days, and it's a trust gap that you have to bridge over. I should not be surprised if the situation is relatively similar in Norway and Sweden. Then there's going to be a whole series of measures that I can't at least go into here right now, but that's free for everyone to read about in the Swedish strategy. And then I know that Minister of Renewal Rigmor Aasrud has already been in Sweden and has been briefed on that investigation. So maybe the cooperation is very close, across the border, in an extended Nordic cooperation also in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e708	In fact, what the representative said here was that it is a national and an international agenda, and it is a competent state council that follows this up nationally. But it's also very important to focus on what we can pick up in Nordic cooperation. So it's a clearly relevant experience. As the representative and I cooperate in other areas of integration, it is quite clear that this right-wing approach is a very important one. But with rights it follows obligations. And that's finding this balance between rights and obligations and participation that brings good integration. Looking to the east is important, but it can also often be a rather motivating experience if you look to the south and east, because whether we have challenges related to the Norwegian space population, and great opportunities, it is clear that in countries beyond Europe this is a dramatic issue. During His Majesty's visit to Slovakia last autumn, we heard about Slovakia's challenges in this area. There are clearly strong tensions, social and political problems and handling challenges for competent authorities – building fences and walls, and a situation that is very far away from what we have. But I think it is important that in order to understand, as the representative also draws up here, the situation of the space population in a country, you have to see the whole European context. That is why the initiative of Ichland was so timely, namely that the Council of Europe, which is the organisation of the rule of law and human rights on our continent, puts this agenda on the agenda, and we will work, as I said in my speech, to bring this matter forward to the ministerial meeting in May in Turkey and give it political attention. Then we'll have to follow up on the areas that are timely and relevant to Norway, on our home track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e717	Actually, I should have kept the bed today, but because of the commitment to the space people, I had to get up. You get to carry over with your voice, that's the content that counts. First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising an important and very topical issue on the agenda. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good answer. It was really quite reassuring to hear that we should keep our focus on the matter until May, and not least that we can also show the force of action through the work done by the Council of Europe at different levels. The situation of the Roma people in Europe today is difficult. Too many have heard of or experienced negative things related to the space people, which means that this has become a highly stigmatized group of people in Europe. And we – the others – are full of prejudices, unfortunately. The Roma are Europe's largest minority with a place between ten and 15 million people. This is only an estimate, because it is very difficult to get everyone registered. Many are undocumented, nor are they registered for their children. They thus also lose the rights that all people are entitled to in a civilised Europe. On 20 October, the Committee of Ministers decided to take some action to improve the situation of the space people. What these people lack is to be treated with dignity and respect, we must not pursue witchcraft on a minority, as we do on the space people. Racism and oppression do not look any better if they happen in Europe. To drive out a people doesn't look any better in 2011 than in 1942. The 2010 financial crisis needed a scapegoat. That was probably part of what we saw when France, and other countries south of Europe, drove the space people out of the country. You had to move focus from bad politicians to something else. In today's Europe, they are also thrown out by several countries. They don't get a job. They don't feel welcome anywhere, not even in their own country of origin. So we're talking about 12 million people living on the edge of the dot. They have little or no chance of improving their quality of life or of developing like humans, and their children have no chance of growing up and getting an education at present. There are therefore two key key words that Thorbjørn Jagland mentioned in his speech to the Council of Europe when we discussed this in the context of 'urgent debate' in October, namely rights, but also responsibility – that more responsibility should have been assumed in the countries of origin, so that they could survive without having to steal and cheat. In a Council of Europe hearing, it also appeared that the programmes that have been launched over the years, and there are many, too many, have been based on listening to those who speak on behalf of the Roma people – so there has been no talk with the Roma people. There is a lot that we Norwegian citizens don't understand by the values that the Roma people have, among other things. that they are a traveling people. Originally they were nomads, but given that they're 12 million, it's just a fraction of them we see here. Many of them have probably come to the country to beg or earn money in another way — trafficking — to secure their family food on the table in another country. But one place you have to start in Norway too, and no matter how hearty it can be heard, one of the tools can be to ban begging, or at least to demand that they confirm that they are here of free will. Because we don't, it's a tacit acceptance of trafficking. Another tool is schooling for children, and to have papers when travelling in Europe. Then it is easier to follow the children and ensure a minimum of schooling. At that hearing, representatives of the Roma people also informed that they would be fined EUR 10 000 in Romania if they did not send their children to school. The idea is good, but which of them has money to pay with? And who is it that doesn't meet at school? You don't know which children are missing. The need to make demands on the space people is also something we should discuss. Because no matter how little money you have, you don't sell your daughter to an older man who wants to marry her. I believe that Europe needs to take care of its children and change their attitudes, because in the long term, the Roma might have a worthwhile future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e753	The history of the Roma is older than that of the nation-states. So you could say that all the people's history is also older than the consolidated nation-states as they evolved during the 1800s. In the case of the space people, some are still undecided about their origins, but they have actually been perceived as a foreign element in the pan-European context very far back in time. Scientists believe that they came to Europe as a turn of war as a result of India’s war against Byzantines – the Greek part. Over 200 years, they developed their own identity, language and culture based among others. in a linguistic mixture of Persian, Indian — a kind of allinian — and Greek. It's a big task we have today when we talk about integration, because it's proven that this is, to the most extent, a sustainable culture that it hasn't been possible to integrate into the system of clearly separated nation states in Europe. And this problem has not come back to date, but it has been re-visited by the transition of the Eastern European countries from a Communist bloc, where there was little awareness of the tensions/oppositions that could exist until they became part of European cooperation at the time of these countries' entry into the EU. At the same time, while the borders were opened as part of the EU system – although Romania’s main country is outside the Schengen Agreement and in this context does not have the freedom of movement of persons in all contexts – this problem became apparent. In addition, we have had our own minority in Norway who have a different story to tell, but who can also put on the table documentation of a rather heavy discrimination, including in our country. So it's very important that the further development of policies in this area is based on knowledge. We must also be able to distinguish here in view of those who naturally belong to Norway, who are Norwegian and in that sense should be further integrated. It is also very important that you go into, among other things. what the representative Lise Christoffersen was inspired by, that is, the Swedish strategy. What is essential about the integration of the space people in Norway? Well, that's exactly what has been mentioned: opportunities for education, employment opportunities, housing opportunities, the right to health and social welfare, opportunities for language training and, of course, always the right to their own cultural expression within the framework of the large community. Then, of course, this is what Europe, after a UN criticism, has taken up through the work of the Council of Europe: the right to simply not to be persecuted and not to be discriminated against. There are still some remaining — less in Norway, fortunately, than in a number of other countries, but we also have a job to do. When integrating or entering a larger community, efforts from both sides are required. That's why it's a good initiative the interpellant has taken today, when the Storting is given the opportunity to discuss how we can contribute forcefully to a painful integration process. That means, of course, that those who are to be integrated also have to work hard. They would have to be integrated, and then we'll be able to go further. Of course, with regard to the new immigration of the space population, it must be subject to the same principles and policies as other new immigration and to the general rules of entry of the country. We can see that what has become visible in the European context is not historically justified – because it is not, of course, not well justified – but in what can be called anti-Siganism as a European phenomenon, it has at least historical roots. It doesn't help with a long story; it just shouldn't be anymore. And if the Stortinget can then also discuss – let's say – in a political atmosphere of cooperation that this debate has shown that the National Assembly has, I think we can reach a good deal longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e770	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important theme and the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good answer. In 1991, I traveled as a backpacking tourist, as it is called, for a period in southeastern Europe and had for the first time had the opportunity to experience the stalls and the way they talked about Roma people in Slovakia and Hungary, but most of all in Romania – on the streets, among people and students whom I met. It was a pretty big shock. In Bucuresti, Romania, I experienced so much of a way of life for some romans. I visited a kind of village or a city of ink in connection with a garbage filling outside Bucuresti, with living conditions that it was totally unthinkable to imagine in Europe. It is true that, among other things, The representative Tetzschner said that it is a long, special, but also proud story – we must be clear about that – that the Roma have. But it is also a history with still very unworthy, poor living conditions for many, and with quite serious discrimination, which unfortunately are many examples on our own continent. That is why it is natural that non-discrimination and the protection of justice are the first point of the Strasbourg Declaration, which has also been mentioned earlier from the Chair. Together with social inclusion, which is point No. 2, and closer European and international cooperation on the theme constitute these three pillars. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of Europe is now taking greater account of this, that it will be on the agenda of the Council of Europe, and that it will be brought in here to a greater extent. I myself believe that several of the measures that are now being tried by the government are very good, not least to further develop the vaccination training linked to space people in Norway. It has proved to be an extremely important but rather difficult task to create a functioning and well-educated education for children with a space background. Being able to do it in such a way that children actually get the right to go to school will be a key task in terms of a long-term improvement of living conditions and the situation of the space people and better inclusion. Finally, I will bring up a theme that I believe the representative Christoffersen mentioned in his second article. Inclusion and the relationship between duties and rights are always an important discussion. But it's clear that there's a special situation for the space people in Norway, and I believe in all other countries, and it's about the trust between space people and authorities, which at least looks a little different than in many other parts of inclusion policy because of history and because of what many people are actually experiencing in many countries in Europe. Finding an inclusion policy that works when making the necessary demands, at the same time as meeting rights, and that reaches in a way that creates trust and dialogue, I believe is a particularly great challenge when it comes to improving the conditions for the space people. Once again, I would like to thank you for bringing up this important topic, which one must continue to work on both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e785	Like others, I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this question and this debate. It is an important debate. Now it is not that discrimination occurs only one day. It is something that is created over many years, both by society and by individuals. Since the space people arrived from India in the 1400s, this people have been met with suspicion and exclusion. In recent times, we have also witnessed the fact that EU countries, such as France, have razed camps and driven people away from the space people. Correspondingly unmerciful treatment has also been the subject of centuries of space. It is a fact that drug abuse and crime are an element we find again among some people with a Roma/Romanian background. However, the Christian People's Party is taking a great deal of distance from the fact that whole groups must suffer because of this. Crime and social problems must be addressed by judicial and social policy instruments, not by harassment of an entire population. In addition, poor treatment by authorities and citizens is often a direct cause of social problems. In Norway, the Roma population also suffered very poor treatment of the Norwegian large community until recently. Correctness is required for any infringement and any errors that have been committed. The Roma also offer a diversity perspective that needs to be valued. The Christian People's Party stresses that all people must meet with the same respect and not stigmatise for acts committed by individuals from the same peoples. Norway can play an important role through the economic contribution of the EEA Agreement to social cohesion in Europe. Here the government can target its efforts to special groups. For example, Norway has: agreement with the recipient countries, where special cases are being dealt with, for example. Greece and the asylum problem. The Roma are hunted from country to country and are such a group that Norway should be able to help. The interpellant also points to the challenges of begging and trafficking in human beings, which are one of the challenges in terms of the suffering that this people suffer. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and I have just attended a meeting in the European Forum, where we went through the use of EEA funds. There we received, among others. information on how EEA funds are used to build civil society. The representative of the Norwegian Helsinki Committee just pointed to the space people and called for the EEA funds to be used against this people in such a way that we can raise them. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously responded to the call from the Christian People's Party to support the space people through the EEA Agreement. He then said that the government followed the use of EEA funds closely. He repeated that at the meeting today. The minister felt that the proposal to the Christian People’s Party was good and wanted to look at it more closely. I wonder if the Minister has intervened in the use of the Norwegian EEA funds in such a way that we can get answers as to whether these can be used to raise the space people. Similarly, it is important that we celebrate at our own door and ensure a good integration of the space people in our own country. Perhaps we should do as the interpellant also suggests: look at our neighbouring country Sweden and look at the measures proposed there, if there is nothing we can do about it here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e802	I think I would like to start by saying thank you to everyone who has participated in the debate. Several were concerned that they thought that the foreign minister had given a good answer to the question in the interpellation, and I think that is reassuring too. I'm not going to repeat everything that has been said, but we've been faced with some challenges. The representative, Woldseth, mentioned, inter alia: challenges facing parts of the cultural heritage that are not specific to the space people but are about gender equality between men and women and boys and girls. I myself met representatives of the Roma people before Christmas, together with a member of my party group, and then we were told that very many of the girls of the Roma people are taken out of school at the age of 13 because they are going to marry and be “clean” on the day they are going to marry. So here there's a clear need for a dialogue across the board. We should also address the difficult debates. In the case of school: I mentioned in my first post the proportion we assume to be located outside the borders of Norway. In our technological age, it must be possible to get a teaching system that allows people to keep their way of life. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was also involved in the so-called mentors or counsellors who are also available when crossing national borders. There must be opportunities here. In the end, I could think of mentioning something from the meeting that we had with the Space People's representatives before Christmas. It went very concretely to the houses and apartments in Oslo. They even connected living with the girls' ability to go to school; the two things are related. They were very concerned about a place to be at a campsite in Oslo, and it would cost no more than EUR 5 per day. It was about the possibility of visiting their relatives who still have a life as a traveler, and it was quite concrete: here there had to be water and power take-offs and a maximum price of 5 euros. It was about eight to ten cars – that's how concrete it was. We should be able to do that. The culture house they were occupied with had to be 300 m2, so we also got quite clear specifications there. So that's what I said about school and education, where there were some challenges for the girls, some challenges in the connection between the lack of housing and the follow-up of education over a longer period of time. They also called for teachers who know their own cultural background. The debate has been cross-political and expressed in agreement. It is also reassuring. The challenge now is to keep the pressure up. It belongs to us in the municipal committee. We have to take that responsibility. Then we're also going to try to keep the pressure up in the Council of Europe, and there's one of our representatives of the space people actually a representative present from this year on. So here are some possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e820	I think it's good to end by thanking the interpellant, as everyone has done, for putting this on the agenda and also for giving themselves and other follow-up tasks. I've tried to do it from the government's side. We're going to make it towards the Ministerial Meeting of the Summer. I also think that this group's particular vulnerability and vulnerability illustrate a general point, which the representative Woldseth was a little bit into: she pointed out that the financial crisis needed a scapegoat. I don't want to go very well for the history composition here, that's what caused what happened in France, but it's a reminder that all minorities are vulnerable in times of crisis – not only this one, but also others, with other labels. So I think this perspective of rights and responsibility is very important, that there is a connection between the two, that inclusion does not have to lead to a clientization where the spaces are passive, but that they can be active, participating and have great room for their own cultural distinctiveness. You have to be able to make demands on the rooms. It is not to show respect for people – individuals and groups of people – if there is no requirement. In the case of EEA funds, for which a question was raised, I can confirm one of several good ideas from the Christian People's Party that it is worth listening to – but I think we are many who have been concerned about – that this is an opportunity we can use further. In the period that we're behind, we've spent 6.6 million. EUR for various measures for the space population, in particular in Poland, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. In one of these projects, in Budapest, Hungary, young Gypsies have participated in start-up programmes, language schools and mentoring schemes, which have contributed to increased participation in the labour market and better integration into society. This is an example of the seminar that Becquerad and I attended earlier today, which illustrated that money for that kind of action is getting smaller and smaller, and even smaller, with the financial crisis, because large groups live in countries that have been hit hard by the crisis. Ergo can increase the impact of our money, and we're going to take advantage of that opportunity. Otherwise, I think the representative Christoffersen is exemplaryly concrete when she points out that a meeting room – many will think, well, what will it take? – do not need to be more difficult than a campsite or premises that can gather people. There is a need for close interaction with the local authorities, and I am absolutely sure it is important that there are signals coming from both government and government to local authorities that these are projects and ideas you have to look at together, and then you can find good solutions to that too. It is important that optimistic messages also come out in something that can otherwise often be quite night black, and I also perceived that it is part of the idea of Secretary-General Jagland to raise this to a European level, namely that the right perspective in Europe is an optimistic message, and it must be able to follow our consideration of this matter for months and years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e836	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e852	In October 2009, I had the pleasure of sitting and hearing a debate in the Security Council on this issue. Then Hillary Clinton said something that I noticed, and that I have used in many ways afterwards. She thought there was no excuse for violence against women. She said, "It's not cultural; it's criminal." That's absolutely right. There is no excuse for violence against women, whether in peaceful or conflict situations. It has been ten years since Resolution 1325 on the role of women in war and conflict was adopted by a unanimous Security Council on 31 October 2000. It is time to take stock and discuss what has been done now, and how we can strengthen the implementation of the resolution in the future. I think it is important just that we have this debate in the Norwegian National Assembly, because it sends an important signal to other countries as well. Resolution 1325 was a milestone in violence against women. An important issue is — and we know it from the past — but it may have increased in recent years. Dutch Major General Patrick Cammaert has said that being a woman has become more dangerous than being a soldier in conflict zones. The background to Resolution 1325 was civil wars in the 1990s. In the 20th century we saw a gradual confusion of the rules of war. While in the first world war the soldiers were the most vulnerable, and constituted the vast majority of killed, the relationship was reversed in Rwanda, Afghanistan, Congo and the Balkans in the 1990s. Most killed were civilians, and in particular were women. In the ethnic conflicts characterising the 1990s, women were particularly vulnerable, and among others. was raped as a weapon. As a consequence of the reality we saw, 1325 were adopted by the Security Council in October 2000. It was a great apparatus in turn to get the resolution adopted. It was the first resolution that directly took into account the role of women in conflicts and in war-torn areas. Norway has been a driving force in this process and was also one of the few countries participating in the seminar leading up to the Security Council resolution. I want to recognise the job done by both this government and former governments in this field – both through the action plan that came in 2006, and through the new action plan that comes on Thursday. This shows that Norway and changing governments want to take this issue seriously. Norway has a lot to contribute to this. We have the resources that are needed to make a difference. Resolution 1325 expresses concern that women are disproportionately affected by war and conflict. It reaffirms the central role of women in preventing and resolving conflicts and in building peace processes. It calls for women to have an equivalent role in the peace processes and calls for the protection of women’s human rights in conflict situations and as refugees in conflict situations. It integrates a gender perspective into peace building, including peacekeeping. But a resolution in itself solves nothing – no matter how well-defined it is. What it does is to highlight the special challenges women face in war and conflict, and in the places where law and justice break up. It helps to shed light on the problem of sexualised violence, and it has helped address sensitive issues such as: The UN's own peacekeeping forces and their actions, particularly in the Congo. But the most important thing is not in the formulations. It's in the implementation. So how far have we come ten years later? Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that the resolution has become less topical in the years that have passed. Women continue to be subjected to serious assaults and sexualized violence in war zones, such as drug abuse. in the Congo and Darfur. Civil war and ethnic conflicts in e.g. Afghanistan and Iraq have suffered a great deal from women, especially in an area such as Afghanistan where the Taliban is holding. We see that women are the first to suffer in places where law and order break up. We have also seen that in Haiti after the earthquake – not an obvious conflict and war situation, but still a place where law and justice break down, and where women suffer to a large extent. In other words, there are still strong and major challenges ten years after the adoption of the resolution. It's also a mixed image we see. There is a greater focus than ten years ago on women's role as victims of war and conflict and a much greater focus on sexualized violence. This, in my opinion, Resolution 1325 has at least partly part of the honour for. If we go to Afghanistan and use it as an example, it is a good case study for Resolution 1325 – a warring country in which Western countries, including Norway, are significantly involved. Under the Taliban regime between 1996 and 2001, it was probably the most hostile country in the world. The current regime, despite its shortcomings, is in many areas better, but in other areas as bad. Gender equality is guaranteed in the Constitution, but there is also the question of how it is implemented. There are some basic structures and problems that persist. How do you protect women's rights in a deeply conservative country like Afghanistan? How do you implement a resolution like 1325 in that context? And how can women's rights continue to be safeguarded in a situation where the conflict with the Taliban is intensified? There are no simple answers to these questions, and the protection of women in Afghanistan is closely linked to improving the overall safety situation. Every peace process must lead to lasting peace in Afghanistan, and it must include Afghanistan's women. There are many compromises that need to be made in order to find a solution to those problems, but this cannot be a compromise on the safety of women. As Alain Le Roy, head of UN peacekeeping operations, has said, it is no exaggeration to say that the last few years after the adoption of Resolution 1325, the resolution has changed the way we think about peacekeeping operations. Let me mention some areas where it is important to move on: women's leadership in peacekeeping. There are very few women involved in peacekeeping today. Consistent reporting mechanisms and governance structures as well as increasing the number of uniform women in peacekeeping need to be prioritised. The goal of the United Nations is to increase it by 50 pst. It may seem a long way away. But there has never been a U.N. Women's Special Envoy, despite the increase in the number of women's leaders in peacekeeping operations. The role of women has not always been taken into account in the situation because women have not been involved from the outset, for example: in peace negotiations. It is an important objective to increase the number of women participating at leadership level, including: In peace negotiations, the aim is to increase the number of women from 15 to 30 pst. It is only in this way that women's rights can be guaranteed even after conflict. Societies that are in a situation where the conflict has calmed down, and start building a society again, are vulnerable – and they can never be built without women's participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e886	Thank you to the interpellant for this opportunity to discuss an important topic and for me to present the government's work on UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. The representative points to a key challenge in his question: after the adoption of the resolution, there are still major gaps in the participation and protection of women in conflict-affected areas. But, as she herself says, nevertheless, this is very important. I will not underestimate the importance of the resolution for the last decade. Only the fact that the deficiencies have become clearer can be the result of the resolution being there and giving us a new filter. Women's experiences and roles in armed conflicts have been raised on the international agenda. Actors who have not previously exercised women’s rights have gained knowledge and awareness. That's good, and there's got to be more of it. The government prioritises the resolution highly because strengthening women's rights is an objective in itself, but also because women's active participation is so important in dealing with, resolving and preventing conflicts and not least rebuilding societies after the weapons are tens of years. So what are the biggest challenges we're facing? Let me point to three that are particularly important: A first fundamental challenge is the weak base of power of women in many conflict-affected countries. Women must participate on equal terms with men at all levels and in all functions in order to promote peace and security. But statistics are discouraging. According to the UN, women have signed only 2.4 pst. of the peace agreements concluded since 1992. Players with weapons – most often men – will have room at the negotiating tables. These are rewarded in terms of armed groups. Because women rarely participate in the negotiations, they also do not have key positions after conflicts, and abuses that particularly affect women often go into the forgotten book – and impunity. Another key challenge is to ensure the rights of girls and women in modern conflicts, characterised by a lack of respect for international humanitarian law and attacks directed directly at civilians. So the front line is going to be everywhere. Many armed groups use rape as a war tactic, and sexualized violence has become part of several conflicts. In such situations, it is very difficult to provide security and protection for civilians. A third challenge I want to raise is our own competence and knowledge in the foreign service, defence, the police and the justice sector. We've made changes. While there is still a need to increase the recruitment of women at several levels, it is important to ensure that both men and women have the necessary understanding and competence. Women's rights are not a special interest or an additional element that we can address when time permits. Resolution 1325 should be integrated into all phases of our work. It is about promoting democracy and human rights and contributing peace and security to the entire population. In 2006, Norway was one of the first countries to launch an action plan for the implementation of 1325. Let me draw out some of our work in the last few years to show you how we've been trying to put this into life. Some of the most important things we have contributed to have women's rights on the international security agenda, including: together with Hillary Clinton, to which the representative referred, and a lot of cooperation with the United States. Norway has for a number of years promoted Resolution 1325 in political talks and in the UN and NATO. As a significant giver, Norway is also being listened to at country level. I also feel that there is an interest in listening to our experiences with equality and our message that equality is good economics and good policy. As initiators of peace processes, we always encourage the parties to include women in negotiating delegations. We've annually earmarked $30 million. DKK over the peace and reconciliation budget for the implementation of 1325, among others. in Sudan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Colombia and the Philippines. Several of the projects are aimed at voting to local women’s organisations and promoting women’s rights in different phases of peace processes. The work on women's rights is an integral part of development cooperation in Afghanistan, and we promote women's rights in political talks. We are committed to supporting local women — and men — who work for women’s rights and political participation, and we have among others. supported a public information programme on women’s voting rights and political rights as well as read and write training for women. The tasks in that country are many, and, as the representative pointed out, the challenges are of very, very high order. In Nepal, for example, Norway has: actively supported local women and their participation in the peace process there. We have assisted the authorities in drawing up a national action plan, and we now support the implementation. Since 2007, we've earmarked 110 million. kr above the humanitarian budget for the implementation of 1325. Support has been given to promote the participation and equality of women in humanitarian situations, including measures against sexualised violence. No later than the 1st New Year's Day, new terrible reports of brutal mass violence against women in eastern Congo came back. Sexualised violence not only breaks down individuals and families, but has security implications and weakens the opportunities for peace, stability and reconciliation. Norway allocates more than 60 million. D to work against sexualised violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Norway has also supported UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict and the establishment of the office of the UN Special Representative against sexualised violence in conflict, Swedish Margot Wallström. For several years we have supported the International Criminal Court's Fund for Victims of Sexualized Violence. Another example: in Liberia, where sexualized violence is widespread, even eight years after the end of the war, Norway supports the work against this type of violence and has helped to build centres at police stations specialised in dealing with women who are victims of abuse. Defence in our own country has launched an increased commitment to Resolution 1325 in education, and guidelines are to be drawn up on how military personnel can protect civilians from sexualized violence. The Defence College is now building up an environment of competence within Resolution 1325 in international operations, and in Nordic defence cooperation is a common centre of competence under investigation. Since the spring of 2009, the defense has had an adviser in place in the Norwegian military quota in Faryab, Afghanistan, to follow the gender perspective in our military operations – that after we discovered a deficiency in these. We also contribute such a consultant to the ISAF headquarters in Kabul. Police personnel required to participate in international operations are taught in operational challenges related to women’s rights and are trained in Resolution 1325. Since last year, Norway has contributed five police advisers to the United Nations operation in Haiti. This contribution is important because it is specifically targeted at gender-based and sexualised violence, which is very widespread in this poor country. The Police Directorate is working to recruit women for international operations, and the female police are involved in most of our police quotas. In Liberia, Norwegian police contribute with training of Liberian colleagues, and in Afghanistan, Norwegian police are running a women’s project with training of police and female prison officers. Norway has been among the main drivers of enhanced implementation of Resolution 1325 in NATO. An action plan was adopted at the NATO summit in Lisbon last year, which states that the intention of Resolution 1325 should be reflected in the planning and implementation of all NATO-led international operations. So Norway has taken the initiative and contributed to this. The decade-old marking of the resolution last October was an opportunity to establish status and plan. So have we. As the representative says, in two days' time, 20 January, the government will launch a new strategic plan – a continuation – for women, peace and security, developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and Police and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. The strategy is a framework to ensure that all aspects of the resolution are integrated into all our efforts towards peace and security. An important element is a strengthened basis for reporting, including: through a set of indicators. Let me end by bringing forward our four main initiatives in this strategy: Firstly, we need to strengthen and systematize our efforts to get more women into peace processes. Resolution 1325 states, inter alia: very central to our work to facilitate the peace process in the Philippines, where women have central positions, which is ongoing in Oslo these days. We shall also ensure that our own delegations for peace negotiations have a good gender balance. Norway shall contribute to strengthening the work of the United Nations and has just committed 6 million. to the UN strategy to strengthen local women's participation in peace processes and to increase women's peace brokers. Secondly, we must continue to promote Resolution 1325 of the Security Policy, both nationally and internationally. We shall continue to work to improve education and practical training on issues relating to women, peace and security, so that our personnel involved in international operations are best equipped to protect and provide security to the entire population. The preparatory courses before leaving for Afghanistan shall be strengthened in this area. International operations shall be planned, implemented and evaluated with a gender perspective, and we shall work to recruit more women to participate in international operations, both among police and military personnel. Thirdly, we must strengthen the implementation of Resolution 1325 in reconstruction and peace building. We will work to ensure that women are included in the state-building process in Sudan after the expiry of the peace agreement on 9 July 2011 and in any division of the country after the referendum. When Norway joins the UN Peacebuilding Commission Organisation Committee this month, Resolution 1325 will be at the heart of our priorities. We will also use our positions in the governments of the UN funds and programmes and in the World Bank actively to work towards an integrated gender perspective. Fourth, our area of intervention is sexualised violence in and after conflict. We continue to strengthen work aimed at preventing and protecting against sexualised violence, punishing offenders and rehabilitating and supporting victims. Our commitment to Congo will continue on a high level. Among other things, we will support the construction of a central hospital in eastern Congo with 57 million. For the next three years, otherwise in close cooperation with like-minded countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e954	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think it's uplifting and pleasant that sometimes we can also have discussions in this room that are not necessarily particularly conflicty, but where we all have a common goal, namely to strengthen a field – in this context, women's rights in conflict areas. I am also very pleased to hear some of the concrete initiatives, which will be presented in more detail on Thursday, and it seems positive that it now seems to be also a stronger emphasis on concreteisation, not only from Norway, but also from countries with which we cooperate, and which also affect in relation to the resolution. One of the reasons why it is so important to integrate the women’s perspective precisely into these issues is that the gender perspective intervenes in all areas of society, both in conflict areas and in areas that have completed their conflict. We had a meeting in the committee with Helen Clark, who is the head of the UNDP, a few months ago, and one of her main points was that it's completely impossible to see, for example. the question of education and combating HIV/AIDS, and to a large extent also very many other major issues, without seeing the gender perspective. It then intervenes until the degrees strongly intervene, and it does so to the greatest extent in terms of war and conflict. The UN has many challenges and probably needs reform in many areas. But one of the themes that the United Nations has now raised for a period is the precisely mantra "Deliver as One", i.e. they need to be more coherent in their way of dealing with conflicts and acting in a complex landscape. One of them, let's say, the concrete expressions that many people think are the establishment of UN Women, that is, the collection of four different agencies in the United Nations that are now going to deal with women's issues. It would have been interesting to hear the Foreign Minister say a little more about how he thinks that the establishment of UN Women will have an effect in relation to the implementation of this resolution. Because it is quite right, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, and as I was also involved in my speech, that it is a long way to go from adopting a resolution to implementing both the reasons behind the resolution and the concrete points. I believe that Norway has an important role to play in the further work on Resolution 1325, and I think one of the most important things we as a national Parliament can do in this context is to continue to have a high level of attention and awareness on this issue. I note very well that there is a great deal of interest among women in other countries in what Norway actually does in this area, and both in the EU context and in context, for example. with women in Afghanistan, Norway is a good example of a country that can actually contribute and make a difference. We have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e967	I spoke quickly in my post, for there was a lot to say and a lot to list up. It's in itself positive, because it's starting to come up with concrete examples. But since the representative says something that's true, namely that we agree on this and can learn a lot from each other, I'm just going to be allowed to tell a little page story from the United Nations last year. The British Foreign Minister, David Miliband, and I were standing and listening to Hillary Clinton who made a statement about this. In the middle of the article, Miliband turns to me and says, "Now I know what's going on with Hillary Clinton." What's wrong with her? I said. She's Norwegian, he said. It wasn't meant to be a sarcasm, but as a compliment. And I think it underlines the importance of talking with commitment on these issues. She's one of them who does. I also think it is important to say that we need to learn from experience. I mentioned Afghanistan. There was a report in the previous period on a follow-up survey of 1325 in Faryab — our military forces. It was not encouraging reading. We've taken that into account by saying that we now have a dedicated person who's following this. And I think it's important that we keep going for how we can build on. As I said in my post, 1325 reveals a whole series of things the world may not have wanted to see. That's why in many ways the list of discouraging news that comes can also have something positive about it, that we're now getting a sense of it. UN Women is one of the pieces of the puzzle that is going to be important. It is a concrete result of the reform panel led by Prime Minister Stoltenberg. There's been an angry leader in Chile's last president. They are now recruiting a staff, but they are, of course, going into a very demanding field of work, both thematically and in what is involved with national structures, and also internally in the UN. "Deliver as One" is a noble goal, and I'm absolutely sure it's right. It's often much more demanding to do it. I am pleased with this cross-political support. I think the representative is right that it is noticed. It is very positive that the Committee on its travels has this on its agenda. I have seen reports from conversations where it has been underlined cross-politically from Norway. In national Parliaments in other countries, this is also noted as an important message. I hope the report will be received well. I have said a little about what we focus on, and as I said, it is not entirely new – it is a continuation and intensification of what we already have. Then we have to constantly try to be humble in order to be able to complement the experiences we're doing along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e982	This resolution, on women, peace and security, adopted by the Security Council more than ten years ago, was and is a very, very important resolution. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this question and raising this debate in the national Parliament now, so we can evaluate it a little ten years later. This resolution was based on the concern that was then. There was a particular concern for civil society during the conquests, especially for women and children, which constitutes the vast majority of the major conflicts. The Security Council included in this resolution not least the recognition of its consequences for lasting peace and security. In other words, the resolution clearly states that these people and these groups of the population are not taken into account in the processes and in the work on, there will be no lasting peace. It's very important. What the resolution goes on to say is that women's role in preventing and resolving conflicts is very important. Everyone must participate in the work of building peace in the community and between nations. We know that women make up more than half the world's population, and in a country with conflicts, it should therefore be obvious in the name of democracy that women are involved in peace negotiations. The Foreign Minister now said that only 2.4 pst. of those who have signed peace agreements are women. This is discouraging. But the situation is today, women are not invited to the peace negotiations, for there are largely men who govern the societies. Just peace negotiations are the starting point for civil society. In order to meet the future properly and thoroughly after war and conflict, the competence and prevention that women can also provide must be taken into account to the greatest extent. We know that many conflicts are based on internal conflicts that have ethnic cleansing or popular migration as their goal, and where the fights play out in cities and cities. It is precisely women, children and old people who are primarily affected by these conflicts. I keep asking this question: why aren't these women involved in peace processes? They'd love to. Sometimes it has become clearer and clearer that the Declaration of Human Rights does not – I would stress not – equate women and men well enough, and that the Declaration lacks a supplement to protect women from discrimination. I think we have to take that to the highest degree into account in the further work. There is no excuse for conflict and violence against women, which was also the subject of interpellant. But a resolution does not solve the problems and challenges we face. A resolution needs to be implemented, and it needs to be taken more seriously by the different countries involved and signed on the implementation of this resolution. We now see that a number of countries are sinning against this. However, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also explained in a thorough and excellent way, it is being implemented in Norwegian foreign and security policy at least now quite concretely to the different nations to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred, and not least in NATO's work, where it is important to include this. We must have a very concrete action plan on how we build this into both defence, foreign service, peace negotiations, etc. This has to be like a headline and go like a red thread in everything we do. I think the government has come very far. We're doing a good job. This should be an example for follow-up. We, as politicians, who meet the international community in discussions, should follow up from day to day, so that women get their rightful place forward in the society we're going to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1001	I'll have to hold on as long as the hell lasts. First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important theme that she addresses today. Unfortunately, there is too little focus on women in conflict areas in the world, so that's why it's good. But I was also very reassured when I heard the foreign minister talk on both the inside and the exhaust in his post. That means that the Foreign Minister has a lot to say, and that's good to hear. It was a very good statement he came along, and I thought immediately when I heard him talking, that I actually hope that we can become the best practice country here as well, and that Norway's voice can be loud and clear. But it has unfortunately recently been revealed a number of heartbreaking and completely pointless matters – I think the Foreign Minister was in on one of them – where women and children have become victims of a conflict. In eastern Congo, over 252 women and 30 children were raped by three different militias in August 2010. In Afghanistan, where women now have greater freedom, they are also used – unfortunately. I was listening to a radio program yesterday when Afghan women were interviewing. They have been allowed by their men to talk to foreign assistants, but they are also recruited to speculators. These Afghan women were then very concerned about what would happen to them at the moment the foreign troops leave the country. In Pakistan near the border with Afghanistan, I could read online yesterday, killing women last year over 1,000 newborns. The reason is strict sharialover in a highly conflicted area, where women themselves can be sentenced to death for giving birth to a child outside of marriage, or by adultery or rape. In Mexico, girls and women are kidnapped on their way from work, gang rape and killing, wanting to be found in a ditch or dumped outside their homes. People terrorize parts of Mexico, which I would also call a conflict area, and let it go out on women and children to keep their men in check. Over ten million women and girls disappear every year in the world, so unfortunately it's miles left until we want to reach all the intentions of Resolution 1325. But in some areas it has, fortunately, improved. When I hear the inter-pellant, and so far also the foreign minister, it strikes me: Yes, it is important that we take women with us, and that women should be part of the peace negotiations and the construction of a country. But we kind of don't take into account that there's a bunch of countries where women don't mean anything. That's where we have to go in there and do something. It is here, towards these countries, that we can make demands, and it is in these countries that I think Norway's voice should be high and clear. Norway is in the Human Rights Council, and we have a golden opportunity to influence and make demands. Not only do we sit in the Council, but we are also one of the largest donors in the United Nations system and should therefore have an opportunity, but also the means, to put in place actions that actually benefit. I know that there's little help with quick-fixing in these issues. Here, long-term and targeted action needs to be taken. However, when Norway is one of the best practice countries, I would have expected Norway to have been much more visible and extroverted in its role in the Human Rights Council, especially in terms of women’s issues. So my appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Make Norway visible in the Human Rights Council, fight for the world's women to get it as well as possible, and don't hesitate to spend money as a tool to get there!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1027	Thank you very much first to the inter-pellant for raising an important debate in the United Kingdom. It's too rare for us to discuss such a central part of human rights as women's rights. Also, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for following up the good and long tradition that has been in order to unite politically not only on concrete measures but also on superstructure – human rights and women’s rights in general. I think the interpellant has a very good input to the problem, namely that violence against women is criminal, not cultural. You can look at conflicts only in the last ten years – and let me pick a couple. We have the Congo, where we have seen the most horrendous abuses and not least that a large proportion of the population has been affected. Overall, the misery in Congo is one of the things that should have been done by the international community a long time ago, but, unfortunately, too little was shown both the ability and the will to do something about it. Darfur is an example where, once again, the civilians experience most of the attacks from militia, where you are attacked just because you are a woman, and because it gives you the opportunity to cuddle a family or a whole village. We have Afghanistan, in which the interpellant was involved, which not many years ago must have been regarded as one of the worst countries to be a woman in – I will almost ever add. Things have improved significantly in some areas of the country, but at the same time only marginally better, or even on-site resting in other areas. Iraq is another good example of how suicide bombs hit blindly, how they get locked up, especially when they're out of work, to their own homes when the security situation is not good enough. Haiti is another step further, where one sees that there are women who get the most hurt when the police and the power apparatus have collapsed and lawlessness again reigns in the streets of Port-au-Prince. Let me go on and say that 1325 has been a milestone in the fight against violence against women. There's been ten years how much has happened, and it's really time for an evaluation of it. I would say that some of the most positive features have been so far that it has revealed greater problems than many were willing to admit. It has thus led to discussions that have contributed to the building of knowledge for those who knew very little, even for those who knew very much, and it has also contributed to change, among others. in how the UN peacekeeping operations have managed their mandates and their presence. There have also been examples in recent times, for example: in Congo, on how UN peacekeeping operations have contributed to women's repression and violence against women. But that's something you're hearing less and less about, fortunately. I see it as such that throughout everything from their peacekeeping operations to their funds and programmes, the entire UN has this on the agenda and has a concrete action that turns out to change behavior on the ground. Then I would say that the Norwegian signal effect, that we are both politically united and exemplary in equality, is present, and it can be made even greater. We have a need together to face precisely the political consensus and show how important human rights in general are, and not least work for women's rights more specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1048	Let me first thank you for the interpellant. This is an important debate. I want to start with a story. In the middle of the last ageing period, a delegation from Sudan came to Norway to negotiate assistance, it was from both north and south. Great was the dismay of several of us who were in the Foreign Affairs Committee at the time, when we were made aware that there was not one woman in the Sudanese delegation. This, of course, was a breach of Security Resolution 1325. The case illustrates how easy it is to stumble into practice and implementation, even though programmes and action plans are never that good. For the Sudanese authorities, it was probably a good time until 1325. But we got the girls up, we. Actually, girls came up from Sudan to participate, albeit a little late. Security Resolution 1325 of October 2000 represents a milestone in the history of the United Nations. Already the following year, at the Bonn Conference on the Construction of Afghanistan after the Taliban was late-harvest in 2001, the head of the UN Women’s Organisation used the resolution for everything it was worth to secure women’s space around the negotiating table. Resolution 1325 concerns four areas. The first is to secure women against violence in wars and conflicts, i.e. women as victims. But it is also very important to look at the other three points in 1325, namely to ensure women's participation in the building of peace, to ensure women's participation in peacekeeping operations, i.e. in the military forces, and to ensure that there are women in the decision-making bodies that decide on security policy issues. As a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I and other women – and gradually a growing number of men, fortunately – have worked to gain acceptance for 1325 and the issues covered by the resolution as part of the work of the main organisation. It is gratifying to record that NATO has so far followed up 1325 by employing ‘gens advised’ for NATO operations. NATO has also developed a directive to integrate 1325 and gender perspective into NATO's command structure. Awareness here is a keyword. The most important thing, however, is what NATO is doing in the field, among other things. to prevent abuse of women. Here it is essential that local and regional women’s groups and networks be informed of their rights and that they be involved as equivalent partners in negotiations and when decisions are taken. It is also important that there are women in both NATO and UN forces, at all in international operations. A male NATO officer can't necessarily talk to a woman in Afghanistan, but it can be a female officer. Or if we take the refugee camps in Chad: who is it women will be able to talk to in the UN force about the most intimate needs? Yeah, they're the girls in the forces. It's not the male soldiers. It's not the doctors or the male officers. Finally, let me underline what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the outset about the importance that 1325 has had in the last decade as a whole. Women's experiences and the role of women in armed conflicts have been raised on the international agenda. Actors who have not previously exercised women’s rights have gained increased knowledge and awareness, and Norway has contributed to this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs drew up Hillary Clinton, but I must say that the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Norwegian Minister of Development and Norway, in total, have done a great job. So I want to commend the government for the extensive work done by the Norwegian side. The Norwegian 2006 action plan is ambitious and effective. 1325 shall be integrated into all phases of Norwegian foreign, defence and development policy. And one of the most important things Norway has done is get women's rights on the international agenda. Norway has also helped several African countries to raise awareness of the authorities of 1325, such as South Sudan, and has contributed to the inclusion of local women’s networks and the other civil sector. There is respect for that work. Thursday comes, as we have heard, a new strategic plan for women, peace and security, to ensure that all sides by 1325 are integrated into all our efforts towards peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1069	I would first like to thank those who have taken part in the debate and made many good contributions. There is a great impatience among women in the world because not only is the resolution a paper tiger but it is actually being implemented. When the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee visited Afghanistan last April, we had some interesting meetings in the Kabul Parliament, where there were very many women on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It was interesting to see, and it was very useful to discuss with them, because of course they had a completely different perspective both on the international effort in the country and on the development and future of Afghanistan. Without their voice in evolution, I think we're going to lose a lot, and maybe get a slower progress than we would otherwise have. I would also like to underline – and that is a point on Afghanistan: Afghanistan has a female ambassador to Norway, Manizha Bakhtari, a very strong woman who has her opinions against, and who has been very interested in closer cooperation with the Stortinget. I have therefore arranged for inter-political women's issues, including, with Bakhtari, precisely to have a stronger link between the Stortinget and the women's perspective, especially in Afghanistan, which is a country in which Norway is deeply involved. And that's what I think we're going to keep going. But let me mention at the same time a few things that I think are important in the follow-up ahead. Firstly, Resolution 1325 and its concrete follow-up must not become a purely female matter. There has to be one thing that everyone engages in – not only women, but also men. Secondly, a positive sign is that African leaders seem to be getting more involved now, taking the word more into the debates on 1325 than they did just two to three to four years ago. It's a positive sign and a pretty important prerequisite for change. Thirdly, Norway can actively use its resources in the UN to promote 1325 and the matters relating to 1325 through the MR Council. But not least, I think it is important that Norway contributes to the discussion of sending peacekeeping forces from the United Nations has a side to the mandates that you may not see so clearly today. Today, it is felt that mandates are often too weak to allow forces to respond to the very type of abuse against women that is often seen. Congo is an example of what they had to do not just stand there and watch because the mandate was too weak, but where to some extent they actually participated in the abuses of the sea. We can't have any of that. Strengthening the mandates of the United Nations so that peacekeeping operations and forces can hard hit human rights violations, especially against women, I believe is an essential prerequisite for the United Nations to have credibility and legitimacy. But it is also an area where Norway can make a strong contribution to our progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1089	Thank you again to the interpellant, who has triggered a broad and unison debate on a topic where we can do a lot together. The last point on which the Chairman of the Committee is concerned is demanding. It is, of course, the direct military intervention in crisis situations. In some of the situations to which she refers, it has been shown that the military has contributed to the actions they were intended to protect against. We also know how complex it is for forces coming from far-off, to function effectively in such areas. But I fully agree, and we see that it is in the right direction that these mandates are marked by 1325. We have to keep working for that. Then I appreciated that the representative Woldseth – who shows a spirit just after the line of Amundsen and Nansen here by holding out despite the cold today – sees the MR Council as a «golden opportunity». It's a nice expression from the Progress Party about an institution they haven't had much nice to say about, but I can join that analysis. We look at all arenas where Norway has access, microphones, influence and allies, as a golden opportunity to influence international policies. She thinks it's a little tame from us in those contexts. I don't think, if you put your ear to the ground in Geneva and in the channels where it's being discussed around the MR Council, that Norway is passive. We take with us the challenge – and also the last of the representative Woldseth, ‘don’t hesitate to spend money as an instrument’. Well, we have to be careful there too, because that is the taxpayers' money. I've shown to pretty large sums that are now earmarked for this. I think this, like all other development work where money is included, has risks associated with it. But I think that if we go ahead and have resources that can trigger activity, it can also stimulate others to help support this field. And it is that the ability to have funds that follow up on the effort also affects the policy. All in all: I think this has been a good marking of 1325 and a good recording to Thursday, when we launch the follow-up plan. And if we can get as wide and unison uplifting about the implementation of it as the previous and the debate today, we are on a good track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1102	The examination of case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1118	Let's take a quick historical look back to 1949. Ever since that time, there's been an armed struggle in Burma. It is not new that there is gerlja on one side and government soldiers on the other side. This peaked in 1988, when an estimated 3,000 to 10,000 people lost their lives when the uprisings and demonstrations were brought to a halt. You can go a little further, to the present, to the capricious election 20 ago when Aung San Suu Kyi was elected and her party ended up getting 392 out of 485 seats in Parliament. It was thought that democracy was about to get stuck in Burma, based on one election. So it didn't happen at all. Then also began the nightmare for Aung San Suu Kyi. For the last seven years, she has been under house arrest continuously. This lasted until November last year, when she finally got out. It's worth noting some of the concrete things that came out of the election. Let me first start with a story from Nai Ngwe Thein, who was the leader of a party called All Mon Region Democracy Party. He wanted a place in Parliament for the Mon region, but lost to a USDP candidate, a candidate for the junta's own party. What he told about his story to the Irrawaddy magazine is about as follows – and that's my own translation: I got reports from the polls that we were going to win. But it was until 5,000 pre-vote were added to the combo box. That's why it tipped in the junta's favor. This story is far from unique. This is largely how the election went. I also wrote in the interpellation text choices in quotes. Now, what you see is that the junta controls 875 of the 1 157 seats that were up for election. In addition, you end up with 25 pst. by Parliament, which was pre-reserved to the junta and the generals. ==References== 80 pst. of all the votes went to the junta overall. Yet it was just – only is a relative word in this sense – 65 pst. elections in the ethnic states. In some provinces you ended up with a place between 35 and 50 pst. digestion. That number would be a completely different one, if you had based the will of the people, and not the spoken voices. Norway has had an active attitude towards Burma for a long time. Many are to be praised for their commitment to Burma. From a political standpoint, Kjell Magne Bondevik must first of all be the current leader of the Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights. But this government has also had Burma on the agenda. Let me mention Erik Solheim's trip to Burma not long ago, as I think was an unwise trip. It was a trip that was marked by breaking with the international community, a trip where Solheim did not meet both parties, or several of the parties to the conflict, but exclusively the junta. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs later said that he could not meet opposition groupings because there was scarcity in Solheim's time. The problem is that this has become a pattern of government visits to some of the least free nations in the world. There's almost only government officials you visit, or there's a very skewed time distribution between the groupings. It says something about the Norwegian presence that we often break with an international consensus related to the issues, especially when using the OECD approach. As for the relation to mediation, I would say that it is commendable by a leader like Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been under house arrest for such a long time, that she has an open approach to mediation and says that there will never be violence that produces an outcome in this case, but that there must be political solutions to it, and then you have to sit down and figure out the solutions. It's one of the things I hope will come out of Norwegian visits to Burma and conversations with the generals. But that once again means you have to end up talking to both parties. It also came from e.g. The Karen people got very clear signals of support for the same thing. Colonel Nerdah Mya, who I and several have met here, and who visited the Stortinget in 2010, has said that Norway can be a good arena and backstop for conversations. Not least because of principles linked to the presence of people from the government and people from ethnic minorities in peace talks, I believe that Norway may have been involved in too many peace talks from a historical perspective, where we have not had background knowledge to play such a central role. But it's going to be a completely different discussion. So it's important to include penalties. It is a continuous discussion related to sanctions policy and Burma. Let me spend half a minute on a couple of different approaches, starting with Aung San Suu Kyi's NLD party, the National League for Democracy. Now this is well to notice an illegal party, but in a dictatorship there is quite a lot within the democratic sphere that is illegal. The NLD says you want the sanctions to continue. You haven't noticed that it's hit the civilian population hard, but that's something you look at continuously, and it hasn't been that long since Suu Kyi got out of the house arrest. She has repeated this on several occasions. Then it is ASEAN’s “rotating chair” – whatever it may be in Norwegian – Indonesia’s Foreign Minister Natalegawa, who said that what has happened in Burma must now be responded to, both at the elections and at the release of Suu Kyi. I think more people stand for that approach now, and I'll warn you the most strongly against such an approach. The choice that has taken place may well be a small first step, but it is primarily a choice in a dictatorship that remains a dictatorship. The choice doesn't really make sense at all – especially when you're going to base the massive voice noise that's been. Obama's administration has also said that we don't want to do anything about the sanctions until all political prisoners are released before we stop attacking ethnic minorities and engage in meaningful dialogue with the opposition. India and China are important. India and China have the key to Burma and Burma's economy. India and Burma have a lot in common – a long colonial history, 1,600 kilometers with a common border. A close relationship between Suu Kyi and Nehru/Gandhi Dynasties lies at the root, and I think India can play a constructive role in solving the problem, but then you don't have to shade over the fact that India and China are making huge money on the dictatorship in Burma. In conclusion, what we now see in relation to the Democratic Voice of Burma is one thing that we must absolutely support. It's important that information comes back into Burma about what the world actually looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1150	Thanks to the interpellant who asks about Norway’s role in the autumn elections in Burma, and what Norway can do to promote democracy and respect for human rights in the country. These are two major and good questions about an important international field of action. As has been explained, the first elections in Burma of 20 years were held last November. In direct and international forums, Norway repeatedly called on the authorities to ensure a free and fair choice. But the process towards the election and the election settlement itself was different. We're not going to completely depreciate the significance of a choice, but this election had great shortcomings and was neither free nor fair. On election day, the regime manipulated votes to win in many electoral districts. Unfortunately, the regime also ignored the international community's repeated calls for the participation of Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi by releasing her from house arrest. Her party, the National League for Democracy, chose not to participate in the elections, and this led to the official dissolution of the party – in line with Burmese legislation. According to the official election result, the party of the regime, together with the military representatives, got about 80 pst. by the seats of the national Parliament. We do not yet know what consequences the elections will have. According to the Constitution, the national assembly need not meet more than once a year. It remains to be seen how much space the opposition who took part in the elections will have and to what extent views can be expressed freely and openly. Regional parliaments shall also be established in each of Burma's seven ethnic states and seven regions. In a majority of the seven ethnic parliaments, ethnic parties have won more than a quarter of the seats. This is not irrelevant. If these lots are put together, it may give them a certain space for action. This could lead to a role for the ethnic parliaments by holding a political dialogue on the ethnic conflicts. The power of Burma is now formally divided into a civil and a military part. Political power will be civil, even though several politicians are former officers. This will to some extent change the face of power in Burma. In the long term, a formal division between a civil and a military part of the regime may allow for differences of interest and opinion. Perhaps a development — as we have seen in several other countries of South-East Asia — is also possible for Burma. But we must be realistic: the changes that will happen are most likely to take place within the framework of what the military can tolerate. That's the situation today. For a small part of the opposition, the elections have allowed legitimate participation. But: The opposition is small, divided and has little organizational experience. They will need international attention and support. This can help to strengthen them before the next choice. At the same time, large sections of the opposition are outside the political system. Aung San Suu Kyi and her movement continue their work for democracy outside formal political bodies. The small democratic space that has opened up has also led to the emergence of a civil society. Civil society expresses itself through commitment and means that do not primarily have the character of being a political struggle. From the Norwegian side, we are positive to such a bloom of democratic commitment, while at the same time giving our support to the established movement of democracy. Less than a week after the election, Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest. It was a strong and emotional moment – both release and reaction. The large attendance around the release showed that her position among the people is still strong, although she is today outside the formal political process. I am glad that the release is without limitation. She's free to meet whoever she wants and move wherever she wants. Our ambassador to Burma was – on my behalf – quick to meet her and convey congratulations on behalf of the government and the Norwegian people. The Peace Prize winner worked well against and in good health. She received a clear Norwegian message of support for her further work, and she agreed to visit Norway at a time that would be appropriate. She addressed a call to the regime for dialogue and reconciliation. This is a telling example of the fact that willingness to dialogue is not about weakness. Dialogue and reconciliation will also be Norway's message to the new government. I would also like to make a strong call to the new government to improve the serious economic situation for most people. Burma is a country with ethnic conflicts and tensions – as the interpellant was in it. In some areas, fighting is taking place between the military and armed ethnic groups. Many are displaced and many live in fear. However, common to most people is that they live in extreme poverty. The contrast to the small elite at the top with great means is grotesque. The inter-pellant indicates that Burma’s neighbouring country has reacted differently from Western countries after the election. That's right. We have to recognize that there are great differences between west and east in this approach. This was also a topic during the previous interpellation debate on Burma, where I stated that this was one of the reasons why the Western sanctions have not had the desired effect. Despite different approaches, we need to be aware that the region has also played a positive role in Burma. I would particularly like to highlight the role of ASEAN in involving the authorities in the reconstruction work in cooperation with the UN after the Nargis cyclone in 2008. Burma is increasingly strategically important for its neighbouring countries. Increased economic commitment from China, Thailand, South Korea and India is mainly about Burma's natural resources, which ensure their growing energy and resource needs. This is important: firstly, we must realise that it is becoming increasingly difficult to establish a common international position. Secondly, these investments contribute to ensuring the economic viability of the regime. The economic commitment of neighbouring countries does not mean that they are uninterested in the political and social development of the country. Asia is served with a stable Burma that allows the country's wealth to benefit the people. I think several Asian countries see this. But we must also realize that the direction of today's evolution is weakening the chances that Western sanctions will succeed in pushing the regime. Today, Norway has a policy towards Burma, consisting of sanctions, dialogue with all political forces – including the regime – and humanitarian aid for the Burmese people. Our policy for Burma – as for the rest of the world – is that dialogue and contact are better than isolation. This isn't a line we're practicing alone. We do this in close cooperation with, among others. The EU and the United States. I also want Norway to strengthen the dialogue with Burma's neighbouring country. Our policies need to address the trends in regional development. We will continue to support Aung San Suu Kyi and other supporters and champions of democracy and human rights. We will also consider whether there are ways to engage and influence the rulers. I have mentioned support for democratic forces and dialogue with neighbouring countries in the region. Aung San Suu Kyi has also asked questions about Western sanctions. This is an important discussion that we will also pursue with democratic forces in Burma. At the same time, we need to assess whether there is anything more we can do to help the Burmese people out of poverty. The time following the Nargis cyclone has shown that it is possible to do humanitarian work that reaches directly to needy people. Both the United Nations and other international and national organisations are present and provide assistance to ensure that their efforts are directed to those in need — not through and to the regime. Norwegian organisations involved in Burma highlight the opportunities to do more. We want to play with them to help expand the humanitarian space in the country. To conclude, we are facing a situation in Burma where there are certain changes, but where the basics follow a well-known pattern: the military are the country's centre of power, the democratic opposition is fragile and without experience, a large number of political prisoners are still imprisoned, the humanitarian situation for large groups is difficult, and in several ethnic areas the situation is very tense. In conversations I had in Thailand during Christmas, we also heard about how some of these groups, including the regime, are being upgraded, which does not promise well for a possible military downfall. Some developments are new, and they should not be completely underestimated: the energy and resource sectors and Asian investments have given Burma new geopolitical importance, and are in the process of gaining substantial income, although this is of little benefit to the population. These developments have helped to divide rather than bring together the international community in the work of democracy and development in Burma. The elections and changes on the regime side have not brought democracy to Burma, but it has nevertheless led to a new political landscape. We will follow closely the development and establishment of the new institutions in the coming months. In view of this, we will assess Norwegian policies and instruments in relation to the opportunities available to contribute to a positive development for Burma and the Burmese people. I look forward to a good discussion today on how best to set up Norwegian policies to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1207	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. Just to take the essence of all first: I understand that there is an overall political Norway that supports the desire for dialogue between the parties, as Aung San Suu Kyi also wants, that we stand firm on the penalty line, and that we stand firm on the possibility of the humanitarian work that must continue to reach the population and not the regime. Let me first go into the economics. There is a wide range of trade taking place, especially between Burma and neighbouring countries. In some cases this is almost a pure exchange, where those who are left with wealth are the Indians, the Chinese or the Thais, and the Burmese elite. There's too little wealth distribution inside Burma. When mines are built or forests are mowed, the smooth burmes are not left with anything other than perhaps slave pay. So there have been a number of examples of Norwegian companies that have indirectly participated or want to be involved in the expansion of Burmese industry, now in the last place related to the Shwe project, which is a gas project off the coast of Burma. It's been said that when that project is over, billions of U.S. dollars will be spent on investment. It will contribute an estimated 1 billion. dollars to the junta annually -- the sums are huge. I believe, of course, that Norwegian companies are not going to operate their own foreign policy, but I want to confirm the Norwegian position that we have a boycott in relation to Burma, and that companies that engage in Burma are actually helping to extend the life of the regime, and that those who receive wealth are not the regular Burmese, but actually the military. So to what Aung San Suu Kyi said after his release. She had, among other things, a large interview with Deutsche Welle, where she says she wants European countries in particular to speak with one voice. She wants to see the countries get in the way of a complete release of all political prisoners, an inclusive political process with all the ethnic groups and the junta, and where NLD must also participate. I would specifically like a response from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how he views the demands of Suu Kyi.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1220	Let me first use this three-minute insert to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The representative had references to the fact that my colleague Erik Solheim, during his visit, only visited one side, the government side. Now Solheim can answer for himself, but I can tell you that during his visit he met the top management in the NLD. He met U Tin Oo, who had just been released from house arrest, and he also met the opposition, who chose to take part in the election – so still opposition, but in the election. Therefore, it is wrong that this was a one-sided visit; it was an important visit both humanitarian and political. With regard to the specific issue, the points raised by the representative, I believe that it is very important not only with an overall European voice, but with a broad international voice, the role of the United Nations is important, the UN Special Representative here is important. With regard to the two points the representative draws up, about releasing all prisoners and having an inclusive political process, I can confirm that Norway is going to join such a vote. This does not mean that Norway has a voice that is subject to e.g. The European Union, if so referred to by the representative. We're going to have our voice, but in this area we're talking completely in harmony with those who have these perspectives. Many analyses have been made of the particular conflict in Burma. Some people call Burma a post-conflict society, i.e. the internal tensions and contradictions are so great that they can be compared to states that are in that situation. I think in many ways it's striking. This is why it is very much about the political reconciliation process that is needed for the country to move forward. The choice that was made does not answer those challenges. But that there has been new room for opportunity in a country that has major challenges, and where the international community should obviously follow closely, I am quite sure. We should also remember that this regime, 10-20 years ago, also experienced great state financial poverty and, as it were, was very, very under pressure in its international situation. They experience a completely different degree of security today, because the revenue has become as large as the representative was, and because the relationship with neighbouring countries is as dependent as it is. There's also a kind of possibility if the cards are played correctly. Because there are also internal voices in Burma that do not want this very strong dependence on neighbouring countries, as some of these major infrastructure projects can lead to. That is why I believe that a wise line of dialogue and contact and clear messages – all the time in a way that balances and also sees the democratic opposition – will be an important line forward and a line that Norway intends to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1231	The interpellant raises questions about the role Norway can play in promoting democracy and respect for human rights in Burma. It is useful with such a debate now, following the elections in Burma in November and the release of Aung San Suu Kyi. Exposure to the situation in Burma has been wide and long-term in Norway. The Democratic Voice of Burma radio station, which broadcasts from Norway, and the peace prize to Aung San Suu Kyi in 1991 are two concrete examples. Arguing governments have used political channels to seek to influence the military regime. We participate in the economic sanctions against the country. You don't have to be so impatient to think that the results have been meagre. Unfortunately, it is a confirmation that it is demanding to change a brutal and oppressive regime from the outside, even when the international influence is reasonably wide. The only realistic thing in the future must be to focus on the possibilities that exist, however small they may seem. The November elections were far from free. The result was manipulated. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, chose not to participate. National Parliament may meet only once a year. The military, in effect, have retained the grip of power. Nevertheless, the option has given greater room for an opposition. The maktelite is divided between a civil and a military part. Although the changes that may come may hardly break the limits of what the military can accept, there may be a hope of gradual changes for the better. The Parliament of Burma will hold its first session of 22 years when it meets on 31 January. In the newspaper The Telegraph, the regime claims that this is one of the final steps in its self-styled ‘road map to democracy’. The 14 regional parliaments will also meet. I think it's better to see this as a plant of hope we must seek to fertilize, so that it can grow, rather than regard it as a fig leaf for still military dictatorship. There are signs of the emergence of a civil society outside the political struggle. It may turn out to be an important ground for a broader public engagement. In the long term, there will be an important basis for more democratic development. Aung San Suu Kyi was released after the election, and without limitation. She has encouraged the regime to dialogue and reconciliation. She has raised the question of whether the Western sanctions in which we participate are the right in the net. I would like to support the Foreign Minister in saying that this is a discussion we must take an active part in, together with the democratic forces in Burma. I also agree that one international voice is important, as far as possible. Consensus from the international community is important, as underlined by both the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then, of course, we will also contribute more to helping the people of Burma out of poverty, if the space for action for this is greater in the future. It is in these possibilities that there may be hope for more democracy and an improvement in the situation of people in Burma. It's easy to pull out threatening counter forces. Heavy neighbouring countries regard Burma as economically important, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. China, India, Thailand and South Korea are increasing their economic relations with the country. Western sanctions will then be less effective. But in this there may also be a germ of hope, whether we should be in the optimistic corner, because a conflict-filled Burma is a threat to stability in the region. And if there's something neighboring countries are concerned about, maybe China in particular, having peace and stability around them. What we have to work for is that these heavy regional actors see that the best thing in this way is a Burma with greater space for a civil society and a government that respects the fundamental human rights, and that is working to improve the situation of the wider community of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1259	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. Norway has a long tradition of contact with, and support to, the Burmese opposition in general and to Aung San Suu Kyi in particular. Suu Kyi received the 1990 Rafto Prize and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. It was therefore very gratifying that after over 15 years of house arrest, Suu Kyi was finally released on 13 November last year. Equally happy was the process around and the election in Burma the same month, which could neither be called free nor fair. The Burmese authorities opposed the fact that international organisations and journalists had to monitor the elections. There was only one group of diplomats invited by the regime to monitor the process in the city of Mandalay led by the North Korean ambassador to the country. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is in favour of Norway intensifying the dialogue with the military junta and critically reviewing the sanctions regime against its authorities. That's not very surprising – dialogue is known as the foreign minister's miracle medicine to solve all the world's problems, including those that require action and not just talk. Norway’s attitude to more direct contact with the military junta must be based on the regime taking the first steps, and clear and lasting positive trends. There may be reason to point out that Aung San Suu Kyi has been released three times before the junta, but each time she has been grounded again by the same junta shortly afterwards. Several steps must be taken before the Junta in Burma can expect the goodwill of the democratic world. The Progress Party is also deeply concerned that more and more reports point to increased contact between Burma and North Korea on possible nuclear ambitions, as is evident in a number of international journals recently. The military junta will only see itself served by political liberalisation if they are sure that this will not rock their base of power. Political elections and the release of symbolically strong political prisoners can thus contribute to increased legitimacy of the regime internationally, while continuing the repression and violations of human rights with unreserved strength. We must therefore not be fooled by symbolic actions. Nor should we forget that there are still some 2,200 political prisoners still in prison in Burma. As late as yesterday, the Stortinget debated the politicisation and default of aid to Ethiopia. Norway does not provide state-to-state assistance to Burma, but still received some 150 million. kr in aid from Norway in 2009, among others. to rebuild the Nargis cyclone, to humanitarian measures and to support civil society. A 2007 report from a Burmese human rights organisation claimed that UN and UNDP assistance went to regime-controlled development projects that used extortion and forced recruitment as an instrument to legitimise the governance and military control of the country. US former UN Ambassador Mark Wallace expressed his views on repeated occasions, including: in 2007, concerns about how the restrictions of the military junta and the manipulation of international means of assistance contributed to undermining development in the country, and how the regime outsourced junta-friendly local staff in local positions in the UN organisations. The Progress Party believes it is both important and right that Norway should provide emergency assistance to the local population in Burma, but we must never get into a situation where our aid policy or humanitarian commitment to Burma indirectly or directly supports the oppressive regime in the country. This will undermine the opposition in the country and exacerbate the human rights situation. Norway must work, both within the UN Human Rights Council, in the General Assembly and in other relevant forums, for an overall policy towards the regime in Rangoon requiring political liberalisation, respect for human rights and reconciliation between the various political groups in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1276	I'll start by giving praise to the interpellant. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark has a very long commitment to human rights and to countries where human rights are very scarce – and Burma must be said to be among them. As others have pointed out, Burma is a country with a long history of armed conflict. I must say that when the day of the release of Aung San Suu Kyi was finally here on November 13th last, there were probably many with me who felt a great, great relief. This is a political model, not just for me, but for very many others. But then it's like letting her go doesn't solve the situation Burma is in. This can contribute — it can contribute positively — because she is still a strong political force with the ability to gather people and the ability to get things to happen, and not least her strong emphasis on the need to have dialogue and to move on in Burma. I think that might be very positive. The choice itself was a story for itself, where you hear clear reports of harassment and sprinkling of voters, you hear about juxtapositions and voters being expelled from the polls. There's no way to say that this was a free and fair choice. It is also the case that in Burma, as in many other authoritarian regimes, civil society has to be built. It is the only way forward for a democratic system in the long term. This applies to a country we discussed yesterday, Ethiopia, but it also applies to Burma and many other countries. Norway’s way of dealing with these kinds of authoritarian regimes must never be to revert to human rights violations. We have to take that up, whether it's Burma or Ethiopia we're dealing with. The role of China in the region is not irrelevant in what is now happening in Burma. Burma is, of course, strategically important. It's not just for China, it's also very much for India. India looks at China as a portal to the rest of the region and to Southeast Asia, and China already has strong interests in Burma. China, like the way they act in many African countries, has made sure to build infrastructure and have close ties with the junta, which means that they have an important strategic position in Burma. What is now happening throughout Southeast Asia is that the dynamics of security policy are such that military instruments have become very active again. It affects all countries in the region, and it also affects Burma and the relationship between Burma and other countries in the region. It is a strong emphasis on the defence budgets of China. They've tripled in ten years. It is difficult to assess whether it is a real upgrade or whether it is a modernisation of defence to China. The point of mentioning these things is that it has great impact and great significance for all countries in the region, not least for the ability to influence Burma in a more democratic direction. China, especially on the African continent, has been very active in the last few years in building infrastructure, lending and providing assistance. In this way, they implement what they themselves want other countries to do to them: not to ask questions and not to interfere with domestic policy issues. This means that it is becoming increasingly difficult for countries outside meeting requirements, for example. The military junta in Burma. This is something that's probably going to spread further. Yesterday we could read that China has now passed the World Bank as the largest creditor for the countries of Africa. There's probably one development that's going to continue with unreduced strength. It is important, no matter how you look at it, that Norway interacts with its allies and with other countries in the world in order to have as uniform a voice as possible in the relationship with the military regime in Burma. However, Norway has a particular responsibility to ensure that the situation of human rights is improved and to contribute to it in all ways Norway can. Last year there were two nominations that were interesting. First, the film Burma VJ was nominated for Oscar – an interesting way to draw attention to the situation itself. And also in 2010 the Democratic Voice of Burma was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. They've also been before. It's also an interesting way to draw attention to what's happening in Burma.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1297	The population of Burma has suffered from occupations, oppression and unrest for generations. Today the country is ruled by a military junta, which it has been since 1962. Today's regime is a regime that causes its own population enormous suffering, human rights violations and great injustice. As part of a process of making the country's leaders appear more civil and democratic, the junta has now passed a constitution and held national and local elections for the first time in 20 years. We record that elections were held, but that is not at all the basis for treating it as legitimate, because it was not a free elections, it was not a democratic election, and it was not a fair election. General Tan Shwe has an iron grip on the entire regime and the whole country. Right after the election, the release of Aung San Suu Kyi, who has also been in the hands of several others, also came. There's a lot of excitement about what role she can play and what role she gets to play. I must also note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we do not know whether she is free to travel where she wants to and use the freedom to do whatever she wants. She wisely kept herself calm and did not travel around the country and held large public meetings, just to get the opportunity to build up her position, and because she does not know to what extent the regime will give her real freedom. In November, there was a great deal of attention about Burma, the elections and the release. One of our most important tasks now is to keep the search light focused on Burma. We must not forget Burma now, because we know that without the media review, the junta's space of action will increase. I would therefore also like to thank the inter-pellant, the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, for putting the situation in Burma on the Stortinge agenda. As a leader of the Burma network at Stortinget, it is also an initiative that I very much appreciate. There is great tension associated with Aung San Suu Kyi's situation and the dynamic release can trigger. Juntaen's response to her invitation to dialogue is waiting. In this context, it is important to be able to launch an inclusive political process, which includes both ethnic groups, the opposition, the junta and those parts of the opposition that did not participate in the elections. There is currently little to suggest that the junta and General Tan Shwe will give way to their iron grip. It is also important to consider the humanitarian challenges and, in particular, the challenges of HIV and AIDS, which are a growing problem in Burma. The conflicts in Burma also contain complex ethnic lines of conflict. By the last few days, there have been shootings with many killed. Democratic development cannot take place without ethnic minorities becoming active participants. On the issue of sanctions, there is also an important debate. As misguided as this regime is, it is clear that this should not be the overwhelming debate, because there are many factors that need to be put in place to contribute to good development in Burma. What is important, however, is that Norway builds its role by contributing to the most coordinated international approach, particularly in relation to other Western countries. Penalties need to be assessed in the light of the process currently taking place, and facilitations need to be closely linked to clear progress. It's interesting to reflect on the election and the processes that are now taking place, and I notice that the government is very interested in doing so. But it must not, and cannot, weaken our unequivocal condemnation of unfree choice and of gross violations of human rights behind it. The election is over, the news value of release is about to disappear. Attention to Burma must not be weakened, and it is by maintaining our attention and focus that we can put pressure on the regime to contribute to progress and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1320	First of all, let me start with a strong regret that I said something wrong from Storting's pulpit. I think that was a very bad thing. It is simply that the sources are wrong, as we are told, are also incorrect. Let me say that Burma is a brutal and oppressive dictatorship. What we see is a junta who does everything to keep herself by the power to continue the economic expansion of the country. What we have witnessed in November is a release out of strength and a choice that creates a skin democracy, nothing more. I fully agree – and I would like to thank those who have spoken – that we must not forget Burma. Burma must be in the media and our searchlight continuously until we have a democratic change in the country. Aung San Suu Kyi is the country's moral leader. She has pulled out a hand, wanted a dialogue with the junta and has not set any preconditions. We as a nation must follow it up and join in pushing Burma's junta to settle down with the democratic forces in the country, and it must also include NLD and the others who did not. At the same time, let me say that what is now taking place in the ethnic areas is brutal warfare. It's a junta that has secured back coverage, especially from China, that has imported large quantities of weapons, including attack helicopters, which now launches an offensive to coerce ethnic groups that have not submitted to the junta. You have to pay attention to that. It must mean that we have to use every possible pressure we can, especially against China, India and Thailand, to ask Burma to put an immediate stop to that type of activity. It is illegitimate, it kills its own citizens, and it so clearly shows how the country is governed, completely without respect for its own inhabitants. Then I would like to end the debate with a thank you to the Burma Committee for the work they are doing, a thank you to the Burma network here on the Stortinget, and also a thank you to the Democratic Voice of Burma for the wonderful work they are doing in getting information into Burma, so that the Burmese population has others to deal with in terms of information, than just a junta who has survival at the top of the agenda. So last but not least, a call to Jonas Gahr Støre to show that we recognise Aung San Suu Kyi as the moral force in Burma, and wish her and the movement of democracy every success in the path that hopefully includes negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1333	I thank you for this debate, which has given many good input to an area where I believe the commitment is widely shared by the Stortinget, the Government and Norwegian policies. What has been expressed here, about the characteristics of both the movement of democracy, the regime and the relationship in the region, I think is a fairly broad, equal analysis around in the various parties and in parts of our political system. But one challenge we have here, which in many other areas, as the opposition asks questions on a regular basis, is to look at: what works? What doesn't work? And, what might seem better? It must at least be the entrance when we discuss what we're trying to do, we're, with all honesty, an extremely marginal actor in relation to Burma. Then we should have this discussion on a relatively free basis. And that's pretty simple, because we agree on the basic value questions that have been raised here. Some comments: From Skovholt Gitmark there have been questions about the penalty line. I can only confirm that Norway follows what is the European line, the so-called Burma regulation. We also have what is called the Government's call from the late 1990s. So I think we should be very careful, given what was said a little bit from the representative Hope, that Aung San Suu Kyi is not free to travel where she wants to. It is also one of the reasons why she thanks for the invitation to come to Norway. She will not move anywhere if she is not sure that she can travel back again. We should also be careful to debate what she has said, and not say, under the circumstances that are now. She has asked questions about the arrangements for the sanctions. I don't want to draw that interpretation any more in the direction of whether they're right or wrong. However, there is a debate between different countries and different bodies about whether they are accurate. Yesterday, 17 January, there was a very clear call from the ASEAN countries for sanctions not to work. That is what we are taking with us in the debate that is now taking place. However, I believe that in debates on sanctions internationally – and this is a debate that has been going on for many years, ever since the South Africa sanctions – there has been a consensus that unless the sanctions are universal, anchored in the UN Security Council, they have at least limited impact. Even limited impact can have an important point, namely that it conveys a message, and it can also set a standard. But we have to go into this. I think the representative of the Progress Party misunderstands me if he thinks that I think dialogue is a magic formula to solve all problems. I think dialogue is the way to show strength and say things clearly as they are, and I think it's very wrong to exempt Burma from that approach. The attitudes we want to use in such a possible dialogue are quite clear, and I think there is a broad consensus on that in political Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1347	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-18.ana.ud335e1360	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
