ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e123	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e137	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e146	It is positive that Stortinget now has the opportunity to discuss Norwegian consular assistance to the Nordics abroad in breadth. Very familiar isn't it done before. I think the most important thing about this message is that today there is a gap in expectations between what Norwegians abroad and travelling abroad think they have a right and should have a right to, and what can actually be provided by assistance through mainly Norwegian U.D. Let me already say that as the committee considers it, the main factor is that individual travellers have travel insurance. It should say itself, but about 20 pst. by those travelling abroad do not have a valid or fully comprehensive insurance. The second point is that when you travel abroad, you are obliged to comply with the laws of the country in question. It also seems, at least from time to time, to be in doubt among some Norwegian travellers. The third point that is important to clarify is that there is no legal requirement for assistance when travelling abroad. We are currently using considerable resources on Norwegian consular assistance. A total of 200 years' work goes into this in the U.D. We have 95 embassies and consulates, and we have as many as 380 honorary consulates. Let me add from the Right that it is important that the distribution and locational choices of embassies and consulates are based on relevance to Norwegian business, relevance to where we are present through permanent students, and relevance to the political importance of locations. We have had more debates in Stortinget in the past, although the Stortinget does not normally have too strong an opinion on where neither embassies nor general consulates are to be placed. Point four goes on replacement and reimbursement. It is not common practice that, in the event of serious irresponsibility, or for reasons of general prevention, liability should be assumed afterwards. The Committee considers it important to set up some examples. It is important to know, as a traveler, that if you act grossly irresponsible, it will also mean expenses for the individual. Especially in the light of the expectation gap I've been talking about, it's very important. We have the challenge that there are increasing numbers of travelers in increasingly exotic places with increasing expectations of what will come of assistance. It makes it positive and extremely important that you learn from mistakes. There have been a number of errors in the provision of assistance or lack of assistance. The greatest lesson has evidently come recently after the tsunami. After that, the U.D. Operations Centre was established. So far, the Committee believes that it has been exclusively positive, and that it will also contribute to a smoother and more equal treatment of different destinations, and thus also of the Nordics in different corners of the world. It is also important to find out here that there is now a very good master's thesis of Yngve Olsen Hvosef, who has written about similar treatment just in line with this. It fits perfectly well with this debate and, not least, this matter. At the same time, there is once again full support for the cooperation that is taking place both internally in the Nordic countries and also in the European Union, by increasing coordination and finding good, relevant cooperation to provide the best possible service to our travellers and those who need to be abroad at all times. Finally, a clear priority is being given and supported by the Committee. The priority is that the Committee, and obviously also the government through the communication, will prioritise the Nordics for short trips rather than those who live abroad for a long time. That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e174	Thanks to the case rapporteur for a good job with a case that differs in many ways from the things we deal with in this room. As a rule, we are concerned about offering people more and better services, assuring our voters that we want them well, and promise to take good care of them, whatever had to be done to them. As the rapporteur has explained, in this case there is a cross-political agreement on the need to improve the understanding and understanding of the constraints that exist, including the power and authority of this hall. The development has acquired Johan Sverdrup's famous formulation of all power in this room. The short version of the message in today’s setting is that if you travel abroad, we may not be able to help you – especially if you travel far. If you stay close, that is, within the EU, it is safer, because we treat the Nordics mainly as their own. It gives you greater security if you, for example, gets sick. But if you're among those who've settled down, for example. in one of the southern European countries, you cannot expect home help from Norway. In return, you don't have any partiality with the Spanish doctor because you're considered to be one of them, as we consider the Polish carpenter in Norway, when he also gets our child's back. So the main message is that when we leave, we can't expect Norwegian authorities to hold their protective hand over us where we are going in this world. Therefore, it is wise to be well prepared to travel cities on unexpected and unpleasant surprises. We travel more and more away than ever, and that development will certainly continue. We also more often settle in other countries, for a time or for a retirement life in a more pleasant climate. We use more services in other countries, for example: dental services in Hungary or surrogate mothers in India. All of this can cause us problems we must initially be prepared to deal with ourselves. We have embassies in 95 countries that can assist with advice and perhaps help if we encounter problems abroad. However, it is important to know that there are clear limitations on what Norwegian authorities can assist in other countries. When travelling abroad, the Norwegian welfare state does not follow along as the niche on the load. It remains at home here, although there are many examples that the foreign service extends far to help the countrymen in many kinds of need. Tsunami in the New Year’s Week 2004 became a time gap in many ways. It revealed two important aspects. One was that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not rigged to deal with a disaster that happened far away, but was near because many Norwegians were hit. The second was how much expectations many of those who were hit had that Norwegian authorities could quickly be in place with help for them. Today, the operating centre is operational. It's an emergency number you can call. It's possible to say from where you're going, so the authorities know where you are. It is possible to get good information about the country to which you are going, among other things. whether laws and practices are wise to know. But as a perilous people, we need to be aware that it is the authorities of the country we are in, who are responsible, even when natural disasters occur. The Norwegian authorities can then do is limited to assist, if the country so wishes. Our foreign service cannot be anywhere. But tourist flows should be one of the criteria in the evaluations around where we are going to open or strengthen our embassies in order to carry out the consular tasks as well. An important tool to increase our presence is cooperation with our Nordic neighbouring countries. We have to try to build it out, to mutual joy. We must also seek to engage in EU cooperation in this area when the development of its common foreign service has to speed up. The message gives some examples of what we expect from service at home when we are on our way. Sometimes the staff of the embassy extend longer than long. I heard a story about a Northman on a London trip who landed a little outside and forgot which hotel he and his comrades lived at. He received a call from the embassy from the cashier and asked for help. His contribution was that he had met another Norwegian at the hotel, who worked at a car repair shop in Mo in Rana. The embassy then called the car repair shops in Mo in Rana, found the right thing, and they knew where their employees lived. The lost Northman could then be guided to the right hotel. There is a level of service that is beyond what we can expect and far from demanding if we do not have the power to live up to the main message in this setting: Outside the country you have to do much without our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e204	This message is important, and I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the opportunity to discuss Norwegian consular work as such. The message we are dealing with today is of great importance to those who are involved, and in most cases, whether it is illness, crisis or other things. It's about people and people's sense of being caught up when they're in a free fall. Unfortunately, we have experienced several times, at least if we are going to believe the press, that Norwegians abroad have met a telephone answering machine when they called the embassy to ask for assistance. The last time was during the earthquake disaster in Japan, but also during the tsunami there were problems getting through on the phone. Here we have to get even better. There have been years between these two events, and when things repeat themselves, that means that the necessary improvements have not been good enough. I am convinced that the foreign service is doing a formidable job, especially now that the Norwegian people have become more foreigners than before. As the report also says, we're going to exotic places where things may not be exactly what you expected before you left our country. I could imagine asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs how we have solved the challenges of having far more new countrymen travelling to their country of origin and perhaps having to have help there. Have we strengthened the manning of these foreign stations to take account of this? I think this could be one of our major challenges in the future, that young people go back to their country of origin and come into some kind of conflict, for example. cultural, and thus must be assisted by Norwegian authorities. Like the rest of the committee, I want to be careful to stress that the Norwegians are initially responsible for themselves and that anyone who leaves Norway should have travel insurance. Our foreign stations must not be a place to go when you are running out of money and need a ticket home. I don't have much sympathy for criminals of the North who are imprisoned abroad after breaking the laws of this country, whether it's drug trafficking or the purchase of sex from minors. When committing crimes abroad, you also have to take into account that you can actually be taken. And I have very little understanding that these will be home and zone here in the country. Unfortunately, this too is a growing problem, but I do not think we should give priority to it. The Progress Party is therefore very pleased that the government has prioritised acute and serious issues where life and health are at stake, as well as issues that violate human rights, and matters involving minors. The rapporteur refers to Document 8:111 S for 2010–2011, where a total opposition made a number of proposals in relation to child Abduction. We can imagine that the EEAS is more active in helping parents to reach agreement. Children are entitled to contact both their parents. The frustration has been great in parents whose children have been expelled from Norway, and they have felt that they have received little help from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, we have seen examples of the active participation of the EEAS in child Abduction cases in order to bring children back to Norway and where there have been very successful results. It requires courage to be active and to make controversial decisions. The Progress Party is well-satisfied with the results achieved and hopes that the EEAS will be able to assist in child abduction cases for the time being. I have had the pleasure of living abroad for a few years, and I have seen and experienced the benefits and joy of foreign service to the North. The same is true of the Seaman's Church. In a country like Brazil, which is the country I lived in, sailors and residents had great pleasure coming to the Seaman Church and experiencing a little piece of Norway far beyond the borders of Norway. I still think the Seaman's Church has its mission, literally and figuratively. I would like to refer to the comments of a joint committee on the Seaman's Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e227	It is nice to be able to agree with the previous speaker when she is from the Advancement Party. It is not always possible to say that in the various debates. And what was finally said about the Seaman's Church, I fully agree. We have experienced that on some of our committee trips as well. When the committee was sitting ashtray in Dubai, the Seaman's Church accepted us and gave us waffles. It was a pleasant service from the Seaman's Church. But first of all, I would like to welcome this debate very much, because all of us in the Norwegian media see that this is increasingly pressing. More and more travel out, and we have more and more contact with the outside world. What strikes you when you follow the debate is what service the Norwegian people start to expect the Norwegian state to provide. I'm really wondering if they're thinking about what kind of state they want, if the Norwegian state is going to have to come with you all over the world. Both the message and the committee clearly state: if you are a Norwegian citizen and are travelling abroad, you have to comply with the laws and regulations in force in the country to which you come. The Norwegian U.D. shall not be an insurance company. You're the one who's responsible for yourself, and that has to make sure to have your insurances and your travel route in order. It's been said so much well in the posts from the others, so I just want to take a couple-three examples that I think are quite extreme. One of our good mountain climbers was stuck 400 meters below Mount Everest. It is entirely voluntary to climb Mount Everest, and to expect the Norwegian U.D. to set up massively – and be critical afterwards – I think I am at the crossroads of what you can expect the Norwegian State to contribute when making such a type of trip on its own. A situation that is much more complex, and which has much more painful feelings in it, is the situation we've seen with regard to surrogati and Ann Karin Volden in India. There are much more complex issues. But once again, people must also be responsible there for the actions they choose to go into. In the case of Moland and French in Congo, we have seen the difficult situation of the Norwegian foreign service. We do not know, and do not have sufficient insight into what has happened there, but what you see is that in that country you have a legal security that is not sound, and therefore the Norwegian U.D. has to set up. But also in that case, the person who is going down has a responsibility for getting into such a situation. What I think is good in this communication is that it is quite clear that we have a Norwegian U.D. to contribute, help, support and ensure that international laws and regulations are followed up, that we have a good consular foreign service, but that it is a total accumulation that determines that you and I, as Norwegian citizens, are responsible for ourselves. We also have that when we live in Norway, but it is an extra responsibility when we travel abroad. Then I think, and the whole committee, that it is very positive that there is a 24-hour continuous telecommunications profit in the U.D. If you get challenges abroad, you can contact them, and through it can also relieve Norwegian embassies. Finally, this is a good message. It is good that the Stortinget stands together. Then we also have to stand together when there's a new media issue. We must dry to resist, and not jump on, but be principled then as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e248	It's being flagged around the city today. It's hardly because of our debate, but it's to show that it's been 106 years since Norway broke out of the Union with Sweden. And then many people pointed out that the consulate case was a leading case. It is true that we have this debate today. I am very grateful for the good attitude, the support the Stortinget gives to the government, the attitude towards consular questions and the reality orientation that this is, by all of us realizing that we are a traveling people; 7 million overnight days on a people close to 5 million, I think is quite unique in international terms. I would like to join the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, who says that he hopes for this level of common perception when it starts to blow. And it often blows when the North is on its way. I want to use the occasion from this pulpit – it may be a bit unusual – to send my greetings to all my colleagues in the U.D., who stand on the front line and meet the expectations, disappointments and frustrations experienced by many of the Nordics. But first of all, let me say that there's a lot of joy in people travelling: good experiences – it's important for Norway that we're a moving people. But those who work in embassies, those who work on the phone who call when it's a small, or big, personal crisis, are people who do a big and important job and have a lot of empathy, and the U.D. will always have the attitude that we should help. I now notice that the Storting in this position takes very seriously the fact that people are responsible for themselves, they have to take travel insurance, they have to think about the risk they're taking. There are important messages from official Norway, and it is good for us to have them with us. But I want to say it so that the U.D., whether it's here in Oslo, in foreign stations, in the OPS centre -- that's manned 24 hours a day, 7 days a week -- will do what we can to help. That's our attitude, and we also consider that to be our duty. Then there are some important points in the communication that the Committee has responded very well to. One is the theme of regression. After all, it's a short story to tell you that you can be financially responsible if you're in a situation where you have a great deal of guilt for it yourself. I think it is important that it is also highlighted in the Committee’s position – the case-rapporteur was involved. This is true where gross negligence exists and preventive considerations weigh heavily. At the same time, I don't think this is a simple way. It is not easy to imagine cases where you can sum up a bill and send it to the person who has come into trouble. But the fact that the principle is established is important to us when assessing assistance to the Nordics. We need to reduce the gap between what the public expects, and the Norwegian authorities can offer assistance – from the importance of taking out travel insurance. It sounds like a message from a responsible parent to people travelling, but it is important that that message is sent. We have statistics that up to one in five trips take place without travel insurance. It's stupid, and it's completely unnecessary. So it raised some questions. Who will be offered assistance? No one has legal requirements for this, but – as the representative Woldseth was in it – we get new groups travelling, and to complex places. The size has previously indicated that the Nordics resident permanently abroad cannot expect the same offer of consular assistance as the Norwegians on shorter trips. This will seek to follow-up in the future. In principle, we must refer these people to the authorities of the country in question. Then we have people with double citizenship, who will be considered their own citizens if they travel to their other country of origin. They cannot expect the same consular assistance. So we're concerned about non-discrimination. It is an important principle of Norwegian administration. However, there may be grounds for discrimination for other reasons. For example, if you are without passports in Austria, or in the middle of Nigeria, you will get different kinds of help, simply based on what is possible for the foreign station. If you're traveling in Canada, in the northern areas, or you're in the Netherlands, it's the same geographic situation that counts. There may also be questions about the security of our own personnel, where they can go in and where they can help, and about access, i.e. where they do not need to provide help. It may be beyond Himalayas, but also in war zones where it is difficult. So I'll say finally that yes, there's been a significant upgrade after the tsunami. I also want to recognise former Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen for starting that work at the end of his reign. We've followed this closely up. We have been tested in the Lebanon war, in the Japan earthquake, etc., and I believe that we have now become a learning organization that can follow up. So I sum up by noting that the accumulation and government essentially have a parallel view of the level and extent of assistance to the Nordics abroad. In cooperation with the U.D. partners, we will be professional, efficient and resource-efficient and will provide assistance to the Nordics abroad in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e274	Let me first correct a problem in the setting, where child abductions are mentioned. There shall also be a Christian People's Party in the note, not only the Party of Advancement and the Right alone. That gives me the opportunity to ask a question just related to it. To the Document 8 we refer to, on concrete measures to combat child abductions: Child abductions are illegal under Norwegian law, child abductions both to and from Norway. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: all the time this is completely elementary and very important for Norwegian Foreign Service, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs act to follow this up with concrete action in order to achieve as much equal and good a treatment as possible with regard to child abductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e281	This is a field in which we have to work closely with the Ministry of Justice, which is the right body in terms of the legal, police aspects of these matters. So my general answer is that this is our priority because the issues are quite many. We work closely with the Ministry of Justice on it and will continue to do so. At the same time, my experience is that this is often very bad and difficult things. As the representative says, abducting children is forbidden. But that is often because of serious child-sharing conflicts, conflicts between parents, how often the children are the innocent party. We see that there are more of those things, and so we have to be able to solve them. As some pointed out here, in many cases — not all are known — the EEAS has played an important role in trying to find solutions. Then we have someone who is highly profiled, and who has been dramatic. It shows a little how the people of the EEA can also be exposed, then in the first line. With close cooperation with the judicial and police authorities, we will seek to do what we can to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e290	The Minister for Foreign Affairs – and the communication to the extent – refers to, and says that when the Norwegians travel on shorter trips, you should be given better help than if you travel far. Now we see a change in the structure of power around the world, where we have to travel far. I believe that both business interests and Norwegian citizens will travel to, for example. China, Brazil and India. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is thinking that if they actually travel to the new major powers of the world, it will be harder to get help there than if you travel around Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e296	No, we have not made a decision that it will be more difficult to get help in Brazil. After all, we are largely strengthening our embassies in the countries in question – which the representative was involved in. This has been done because Norwegian interests and Norwegian involvement generally increase. But I think that this thing with distances comes in, that the possibilities of helping Norwegians who have come up in difficult situations around the large Brazilian area, for example, are different from whether you get into a problem in Denmark. But I think our position will be, based on the Norwegian administrative tradition: non-discrimination based on the letter of the Foreign Act that we are to be of assistance to the Nordics. But then we have to admit that the farther away, the more different culture, the more different access possibilities, will have something to say for the ability we have to provide help. However, I believe that in Norwegian administration – that is my experience – the principle of non-discrimination is very strong, and it will also motivate station managers and those working in the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e306	I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the first time on presenting a big message that draws up a political framework for what we can expect, and the priorities underlying consular assistance. It is more important that the Storting discusses policy principles overall, and that the starting point is that the individual issues are left to the U.D. to deal with, within the current principles drawn up by the Storing. Let me therefore also say that the Workers' Party, and indeed everyone else, agree with the priorities outlined in the notification. Our foreign service has about 80,000 consular matters every year. Most of them are perfectly okay, and concern unfortunate nordics in distress. Others are more serious issues, issues that get a lot of attention — Nordics who commit crime abroad, who are imprisoned, people who are exposed to great risk with knowledge and will, people without travel insurance who get into trouble, get sick or die abroad. There may be people on a health trip who can get serious complications. These are issues that can generate great attention and headlines in the media, and put great pressure on us politicians and the EEAS about action. It is not always the case that the Norwegian authorities should or should arrange for this or that it is realistic for us to be able to do so. At the same time, there are no easy balances, and it is particularly difficult when young people are involved. I am pleased that the Norwegian foreign service now has a day shift to assist the Norwegians in need abroad. Nevertheless, the welfare state is not inflatable and cannot eliminate all the risks to the Nordics on their way. There's no reason either. We have no inflatable Norwegian welfare state that you can take with you on your back and go. It should be a matter of course to understand it, but unfortunately it isn't. Information work is therefore very important to reduce the gap between expectations and actual offers. For example, it is important that people know that Norwegian foreign service also has to deal with the rules in the country where the foreign station is located. This year, approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr is paid by insurance companies in the settlement of claims from travel insurance. The number of cases they have is over 100,000. Still, it's about 20 pst. by those travelling abroad, who are not insured, and many of them are caught in Norwegian foreign stations. I want to spend some time on a point of social security abuse. The government, through the amendment of several laws, has intensified the fight against social security abuse. The legitimacy of our welfare state depends entirely on the detection and punishment of abuse. Some social security abusers travel abroad. I just want to stress that it is important that the access and obligation of the law to notify is exercised if there is a legitimate suspicion of social security abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e319	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4484]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e335	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e344	The UN is in a process of conversion – at least the UN should be. After many years of increasing resource availability, several countries reduce their grants to the organisation. This requires organisational changes and priorities. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence writes that the Committee expects the government to take the lead in this process. Now it is more important than ever to step down the less important activities of the UN, so that the most important work can continue as before or be reinforced and improved. I think it is good that the committee agrees here. The government has a combined mass behind it in the further work of this process. The Swedish government has also taken this seriously. The Swedes have gone through UN sub-organisations and flashed out seven that will be given less priority in the future. The world is changing. That's what the United Nations must be. The United Kingdom has also carried out such a review, and stopped the allocation of some of the UN organisations, including the ILO, the UN Labour Organisation. The British point out inefficiency and lack of results, and that resource use seems unnecessary. Three Labour Party representatives in Stortinget suggested earlier this year that the same organisation, i.e. the ILO, should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. It is incomprehensible, and definitely not in accordance with the statutes of the Peace Prize. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs here at home has also analysed the activities of UN sub-organisations. Now we are waiting for the conclusions and a clearer prioritisation of the use of resources by the government. If you prioritize everything, the most important thing will be damaged. Heavy and inefficient bureaucracy are countering good results. Today it became known that the government supports Ban Ki-moon's wish for a new period as Secretary General of the United Nations. There is certainly something that will be debated about. In any case, it is important that the Secretary-General tackles the ongoing reorganisation of the United Nations in a more effective way than we have seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e357	The debate we have here today is an annual view, but it is not irrelevant. It is necessary that we regularly discuss the UN, not least to stress that it is important that we have an organisation and a global meeting place that can contribute effectively and optimally to security and peace, development and respect for human rights. When more than 100 Heads of State or Government took part in the opening of the General Assembly last, it testifies that the world community is signaling the importance of the organisation. It is also the only meeting place where countries that have nothing to do with each other every day sit in the same room, under the same roof. So sometimes in the General Assembly there may be a high temperature when some heads of state go to the pulpit, as when the President of Iran made quite a rough statement, that the terrorist attack on 11 September 2001 was directed by the Americans themselves. Such statements become – to put it mildly – a bit of a bad mood, and they are, of course, totally unacceptable. It has been said on various occasions by this pulpit that the UN is no better than what the Member States make up the organisation, and I think that is quite right. Norway has great ambitions for the UN, both politically and not least in terms of getting a better organised and efficient organisation. We have discussed the need for reform in several rounds in the Grand Duchy for more efficiency, and there is a broad consensus that this is necessary. It is therefore good that Norway, as a country, has this so high on the agenda, and that through our positions in the UN, we are constantly working on this. The report states that a polarisation can be traced between the south and the north — in the south, indicated by some active countries in the G77, and in the north, among others. EU. I have noticed what is written about the extensive coordination in the EU, which has sometimes led to a sedentary of the positions of the countries. Polarisation applies both to policies around sensitive issues and to future funding of the UN budget. When several countries say that they do not want to increase, while the countries of the south are just expecting it, it is worrying. I do not believe that money should be given to the UN uncritically, but it is quite clear that if you are going to get reforms and get a better organisation, it requires land to be set up. But when that is said, I must at the same time point out that it is sometimes painted a little black image by the organisation, also in this room. It is not that the UN does not contribute to results. Work on the Millennium Goals, for example, shows that it is possible to bring the world together on goals where there is actually great progress. In a world marked by conflict and poverty, an unfathomable effort is required to obtain results, both from individual countries and from the UN as an organisation. As you go through the status of the different Millennium Goals, we see that a lot has been achieved, even though we still have a long way to go on some of the Goals. Norway has had a particular focus on infant mortality and maternal mortality. I believe that this has been quite correct, and it is a pleasure that these objectives, after pressure from Norway, are now being given high priority. I am also pleased that Norway has been a strong driver for the creation of UN Women. Women are very important both for poverty reduction and for peaceful solutions to conflicts, to mention a few things. This is why work to ensure more equality and women's rights is an incredibly important work. Then I want to mention one thing that I think is important that Norway should continue to put a great deal of pressure on the UN, and that is the fight against the death penalty. We do not often discuss it at home in Norway, but every day hundreds of people are killed with the blessing of the authorities in the country. That the resolution against the death penalty, with which Norway worked a lot, got more yes-voices than last time, shows a happy development. In that case, however, continuous work must be done, and Norway should continue to be a driving force there. Finally, it is important that Norway make an effort to improve the different parts of the United Nations. In the setting, the Human Rights Council is mentioned in particular, including: because it was also the topic of the last we had this round in Stortinget. The Committee then wanted an evaluation of Norway’s role there and an evaluation of the new Council. That assessment is important for Stortinget to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e376	First, I want to fully agree with the considerations that Eva Kristin Hansen gave on the issue of the death penalty and human rights and an evaluation of that work. Here Norway has the opportunity to play an important role. We have a voice that is heard, especially because we have a role in the Human Rights Council. I just want to link some considerations to two of the themes that both the message and the setting address. One is reform of the UN, and the other is the pursuit of the Millennium Goals. With regard to UN reform, there is no doubt that the UN needs to change in order to be relevant and to respond to other and often more challenging crises than what has been seen. One issue is related to Security Council reform, which is an endlessly recurring discussion. It can be seen that the Security Council today does not necessarily reflect the economic and political conditions of power in the world, and it is felt that the discussions on reform that are actually taking place really carry a lot of the thought that was relevant 20 to 30 years ago, but that is not as relevant today. The second theme relating to reform is that we must ensure that the UN does not slip into some sort of irrelevance. New and informal forums take over much of the role many countries are interested in — among others. G20 and other non-democratically elected organisations – and it is clear that this is a challenge. Let me say that the Security Council has now, following this communication and this session, agreed on a resolution which, for the first time, shackles the principle of the duty to protect civilians. In my opinion, this is a major step forward, and it is also something that Norway has a duty to support. Norway has now done so, something for which the Right is very happy. We are a country that is and has been a strong supporter of the UN. As a result, it is also important that we prepare and contribute to the enforcement of the resolution. For many years the United Nations has been criticised for not having strong enough mandates in this type of conflict – that is, the United Nations is just standing still and seeing that serious violations are committed against people and civilians. Now you have an opportunity to do something about it. Then there has been a long discussion in the United Nations on the concept of Deliver as One, and this remains a major challenge for a large United Nations system. The UN has some parts that don't work so efficiently, but also have some parts that work very efficiently. Some of the points must be that Norway, as a major donor and contributor, also contributes to aligning our efforts where it has the most impact on the recipient. That means that we might have to look with new eyes at how we align our contributions to the United Nations system, and how we use the opportunity and power we have, to actually control some of the things that happen from reform work. It is also the case that some of the UN organisations, perhaps in particular UNDP, have had some criticisms of eating into other UN bodies. So you duplicate some of the problems that you're doing, and that's obviously not a good development. The UN is important for Norway for many reasons. One of the reasons, of course, is that we are a small country dependent on a world order governed by rules, and not just by power and threats of power. We have every interest in a strong UN that works well, and that's why we need to engage in the reform work, which we also do. Finally, just a few words about the thousand-year targets and their follow-up. It has also come from the UN, perhaps especially from Tony Lake, who is now – almost – a new head of UNICEF, what we are saying, concerns and concerns about having focused too much on the quantity of the Millennium Goals, and not enough on the quality, that you only think about the large roll-in of children at school or in health institutions, without really working so much on the quality – that it is a major challenge in relation to many of the Millennium Goals that you also have to focus on the quality of content. Finally, a point that I think is important to include. Many countries with major problematic human rights situations are very important for the implementation of the Millennium Goals. Ethiopia is such a country. That means that it has become more difficult to criticise Meles Zenawi and his regime precisely because he and his government are so important to carry out the Millennium Goals. We need to find a balance where it is still possible to criticise a head of state when the human rights situation is problematic and abuses are perpetrated against his own population, without going beyond the millennial targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e399	This is a message that comes once a year, and we are given the opportunity to reflect a little bit on the role of the United Nations and our work in relation to the United Nations. Let me also say that we have a lot of other debates here in the Chamber on issues related to what's happening in the United Nations. If you take a whole year, we have a lot of good debates here on UN-related issues, and I appreciate them. They are also important because Norwegian parliamentarians are involved in the work of the UN in many ways. The message speaks for itself, but only a few reflections. I heard the representative Eriksen Soreide, chairman of the Committee, say that ‘man’ must take care of. It's a linguistic Norwegian use at a request. But'man' in the UN is all the countries of the world. It makes the UN both so complex and so fascinating. The UN is the sum of what countries can do for good and for bad. I agree with the chairman of the committee when she says that the Security Council's decision in Resolution 1973 on opening up all available means to protect civilians is historic. Then “man” got to it. The UN Security Council, set up as it is, with three African countries, voted in favour and made it possible to intervene against the regime's abuse in Libya. At the same time, ‘man’ is not able to do a wide range of other things, including: reform the Security Council and streamline a good part of its work. So the UN is, as has been said, at good and bad what the world is. People are often reminded of this American politician who in his day said that the UN does not intend to take us to heaven, but to avoid us going to hell. It's an important reminder. So I would say that many of the ambitions we have are often formulated as ideal demands of the United Nations. ‘Deliver as One’ – delivering as one – is a demanding ambition. I noticed that Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, when he launched his candidacy, drew this out as one of the experiences he had, namely that he saw that the UN was able to deliver as one in more and more areas. But then the contrast when the UN can't do it gets bigger, and we need to focus on it. I fully agree that we need to keep an ongoing focus on the implementation of the quality of the thousand-year targets as much as the quantity. We have that in the areas in which we are engaged. Let me just be quite clear that on the government side, we are very closely following the various sub-organisations of the United Nations, whether they deliver, how they deliver, and whether they are thus deserving of Norwegian support. It is not that Norway is always the largest total that gives, but per capita we will always rank high, because we have a high level of development aid. But Norwegian support is often visible, because it is associated with a thorough consideration of how we contribute. That's why we're going to be strategic in the way we give our support in the future. Otherwise I noticed the question from the representative Hansen about the evaluation of the Human Rights Council. We have been given the clear wording of the committee. Now we had a thorough debate on an interpellation on the Human Rights Council here a little earlier this year, which provided the basis for both analysis and assessment. But, of course, we should provide a thorough evaluation and summary of our experience in the Human Rights Council so far, and find a suitable form of what can involve the Storting for debate. Finally, let me say that we have noticed that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is now making himself available for a new period as Secretary-General. He has done a thorough exploratory work before he went out with it, and probably has the support of the permanent members of the Security Council. There has been discussion about his leadership style, parts of his choices and parts of his profile. We've taken note of that, we've also expressed ourselves in that context. That should be the case with it – we can say – the highest civil servant in the international system. On the Norwegian side, however, it is important to have a good relationship with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, supporting a Secretary-General who is always present. Therefore, Ban Ki-moon will also have our support and commitment as a committed and critical supporter of the UN in the years to come. It may be worth concluding that today we are exchanging the ratification document on the divider line with Russia. It is a result of what a UN-led world has offered Norway. So it's the law of the sea that has given us the opportunity to find a dividing line with Russia, and we use the international cooperation tools that the United Nations system provides to get an orderly relationship with our neighbor in the north. I think that can be a good illustration on this day – 7 June – that we are doing this act with Russia based on what a UN-led world has, after all, given Norway benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 4485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e445	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e454	There is an overall committee that supports the government's efforts to get the most possible atoning transfers of foreign convictions to its home country to punish it there. The Committee also commends the government's work and efforts in this area. The Committee notes that in recent years there has been a sharp increase in the number of prisoners with foreign citizenship in Norwegian prisons. About 30 pst. by prisoners are non-residents, many of whom have neither a residence permit nor a connection with Norway. There is reason to believe that several of these come to Norway only for the purpose of committing crime. The police work very well in many areas, including against organised travelling criminal gangs, among others. through the Grensenlös project, which most people know about. This has resulted in many attacks by criminal foreigners, resulting in custody and imprisonment. So they are seizing many prisons, and the pressure on our prisons has increased sharply in recent years as a direct consequence of the increase in the number of prison inmates. This has both led to a return to growth in the housing sector and to the fact that the staff in criminal care are experiencing demanding everyday life with full prisons. The Committee therefore expects that the transfer of convicted foreigners to the home country will improve the situation of prison capacity here in Norway. The fact that these convictions are not to be returned to Norwegian society means that the Committee considers it right to adapt the law and conclude agreements on settlement transfers with the most relevant countries. It is appropriate, in the Committee's view, that penalised zones be penalised in the country to which they are to be returned after settlement. However, an overall committee underlines that a precondition for settlement transfers is that the country to which the sentence is transferred has ratified central and relevant human rights conventions and that a transfer will not conflict with them. The EU has developed a new framework decision on settlement transfer to improve the efficiency and simplification of settlement transfers within EU countries. This framework decision will enter into force in the Member States on 11 December this year, and a unanimous committee supports the government's ambition to join the EU Framework Decision. This process is expected to take some time and the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to extend the framework for the conclusion of bilateral agreements with the country concerned on transfers. The Committee gives its approval to the government's work on compensation transfer agreements. The majority is today to approve the agreement on the transfer of compensation between Norway and Romania, and the Committee is also aware that the government has concluded similar agreements with both Lithuania and Latvia. There is every reason to praise this work. The legislative changes proposed in this proposal will be adopted today. This implies that it will not be necessary to submit the agreements with Lithuania and Latvia to the Grand Duchy. The Committee is very concerned that action needs to be taken to meet the challenges of the increase in the number of foreigners in Norwegian prisons. The Committee considers that the measures already taken by the government and the measures it is now proposing in this proposal are targeted measures that will result in a number of convictions being transferred to its home Member State. The proposal also proposes changes to the decision-making authority in criminal proceedings with electronic control. The majority of the Committee supports these amendments. We believe that the local level knows those who are applying for punishment with electronic compensation, the best and therefore also those who are best able to both assess and determine who should and who should not be granted foot-link soning. The central administration of criminal law, KSF, will provide guidance on the procedure in order to ensure as much equal practice as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e473	In order to start positively, as the Storberget stated in a previous debate, it is good that the government is working on concluding bilateral reconciliation agreements with countries that have citizens who are overrepresented in crime statistics. The agreement with Romania was concluded on 20 September 2010, and the Progress Party is concerned that it is only now that we have ratified it. So it's been almost nine months. Anyway, there are many positive effects of these agreements. We know that zone in their own country is more favourable to the judgment in terms of rehabilitation and repatriation to society. Furthermore, the rapid transfer of funds to the home country will increasingly prevent the development of new crime and the construction of criminal networks within prison walls as well as prevent others who consider coming to Norway to commit crime. But everything is not just gold, for this agreement will not apply to criminal foreigners with shorter sentences than 1.5 years. In other words, anyone sentenced to prison sentences that are shorter than this must zone fully in Norway before being expelled from the country. If we look at the statistics, it turns out that the majority of foreigners judged here in the country are serving shorter sentences than those I mentioned in 1.5 years. This is related to how our law works, where short sentences are measured for the first crimes. If you are convicted for many, the last crimes will be 'free'. And it's clear -- having one burglar, two burglars, one can get a maximum of one and a half sentences. Then it goes without saying that it might pay some people to commit both 10 and 20 extra criminal crimes. So, in other words, if you've done it once, it'll pay to do the most crime possible. The Progress Party believes that this needs to be changed, and that it must also be possible to buy prison places in the home country for those with shorter sentences. If necessary, it must be included in the agreement that they may also be sent out by a shorter judge. There is a discussion in Denmark as to whether it would be appropriate to be able to bill other countries for prison expenses if individual countries do not want to or may not be able to accept their own criminals. This is a debate that we think is interesting. Furthermore, we hope that Norway, as an EEA country, may fall within the scope of the EU Framework Decision which will enter into force on 11 December 2011. Furthermore, we believe that we need to get rid of the financial benefits that criminal foreigners have the opportunity to receive while they are in prison. Crime in Norway is not to be rewarded, but in many cases the difference is minimal between being law-abiding in your own country and having a prison stay in Norway, which invites you to try out, because the risk is so small and the consequences are so small. As a nation, Norway needs to avoid, to a much greater extent, a welfare system such as ours, which we have built up over time, from being undermined by criminal foreigners. In the second part of the proposal, it is proposed to empower the local level of criminal services to decide on the implementation of criminal sanctions by electronic means. The Party of Progress does not rely on the increased use of housing by electronic control, nor on this decision-making authority to be added to a local level. Furthermore, it is important for us to make it clear that under no circumstances should it be possible to achieve a home reconciliation where the criminal has committed serious crime, such as violent or sexual crimes. Nor is it right, in our opinion, to grant home-sonship with electronic control at the end of a longer sentence, as this may seem to shorten the ordinary punishment. One should also be aware that it might not be all the criminals who had been involved in electronic home-society, who have a home. For this reason, some form of class separation may easily occur. I refer to the proposal that has been raised in case No. 4, and will also draw attention to the fact that we are going to vote against II in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e496	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e499	Today, we are adopting a completely necessary update of the law and agree to the conclusion of an agreement that is absolutely necessary in order for us to have at all an illusion of doing something about the challenges we have with foreign criminals who come here just for the purpose of committing crime and nothing else. The rapporteur presented the Committee's position in a good manner. It's good that we get these things, because it's a unanimous big thing, gathered from the left to the right, that's been taking care of these questions for a long time. Open borders have a consequence. A small country like Norway, which is peripheral but rich, is becoming increasingly attractive. I have said in the media that Norway is in many ways a honey pot and is still going to be. At the same time, this small, rich country is totally dependent on the fact that we have the most open borders in terms of our economy and trade with the rest of the world. It creates great challenges for us. Some of the debates we might have to deal with on border control, etc., are not as easy for us who don't exactly have a solid, large domestic market to work on, as for some larger countries that have it. On the right, we would like to stress that, in addition to consenting to the conclusion of this agreement, it is important to amend the law, and to continue to establish its own departments, prisons, for foreign criminals. So to be clear, that doesn't mean we're going to follow some of the resignations in the VG on the level of things. I think we should have a slightly more nuanced relationship to these questions, for example. to deal with some human rights conventions we are bound by – so that we are all clear on it – and to be open to looking at the level and standard of our own departments and prisons for foreign criminals. We also need to be open to buying prison places abroad, so that countries cannot use capacity problems as an argument — or an indirect moment — to receive their own citizens. We must follow closely the possible Schengen adjustments. I guess that's limited what we can do alone. We have discussed the debate in Denmark in the past, but the fact that the government follows closely is a clear premise from the Right. The level of punishment is a matter for itself. It's a big challenge that this was almost not a topic when we dealt with the penal code, and that short judges means that we're struggling to get people out. It's a little gordian knot in terms of the number of settlement transfers we can get. I hope that the Council of State in its speech can say something about the possible measures that he sees as being capable of increasing the number of settlement transfers, when looking at the measurement of penalties in Norway, if we have any opportunity at all there. In the case of electronic control, I refer to the representative of the Advance Party. We are concerned that by delegating additional powers downwards in the system, there is an even more heterogeneous practice in interpreting the criminal code. The law in the area of criminal law is very rich in discretion. We have chosen that because we trust the professional assessments, but what we get feedback on in a lot of areas is that there are very different interpretations of the same code, depending on which region you are in, depending on which prison you are in. Juss-Buss and many organisations working in the field report this. We therefore believe that even more delegation down the system of this will create an even more unclear and dissimilar practice in dealing with the legislation. As far as II is concerned, like the Progress Party, we will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e518	Norway is part of the EEA and also Schengen. These are agreements that have their consequences, and one of the consequences is that a good number of people from Eastern Europe and other parts of the world, but especially Eastern Europe in this context, come to Norway for the sole purpose of committing crime and spreading anxiety and anxiety. Those people hit individuals, individual families, and not least society. The costs, large costs, must be borne by individuals, families and society in the form of insurance losses, in the form of investigations, in the form of the sentences to be dismissed, in the form of the prison sentences to be carried out, and much more. Then it is important that something is done to stop this crime. We see that the government and the police down in the system take this very seriously. This crime has really been reduced in recent times. That's good, and there's also results in the last term, that there's a lot of people who have to make their own judgments. It goes beyond capacity, it goes beyond the working environment of criminal services. That's 94-95 pst. coating. There is a pressure on those who are set to do this important and good job. Then it's important that we do everything we can and transfer the ones we can transfer back to their home country to zone there. I am very pleased that the Committee gives its full support to the persistent work of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice over a long period of time. We've come a long way, and a very good piece of work is done. Much is left, but there I have full confidence that the Department and the Council of State are doing their job. So I want to say something very brief about home sonaring with electronic control. We in SV and in the government parties believe that this is a good measure, among other things. to release the capacity of prisons just to use it on heavy criminals where we cannot use home-sonation. They must be inside. They must remain in prison for a long time and also need increased prison capacity. Then it's important that we use all the possibilities we can use and that technology can give us, and that's where this home zone comes in with electronic control. Everyone knows that it is no more than four months before the expected parole; this can be used. Either way, it's those who know the prisoner well, those who know what stage of life he's in, how this will be in practice, who make decisions. I have no problem delegating responsibility downwards. The closer decisions are made by individuals, the better. I was a little surprised that the Right, which is basically a party that wants to delegate responsibility downwards, is suddenly opposed to it. All of a sudden, they're against us using the system as we should all really want, namely, that as many decisions as possible should be taken as closely as possible to the user. – I’m a little surprised by this, but we from the government parties think this is a good measure, which has given good results and will provide further good results both for the people involved, the families involved, and not least for the criminal services, which will increase the capacity we need to capture the really heavy criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e529	The Christian People's Party believes that a principle should be established that convictions should be punishable in the country to which they are to be returned after settlement. That is why we are pleased that there has been an agreement on the transfer of funds with Romania and that there is now work to reach similar agreements with Lithuania and Bulgaria. As many have experienced, there has been a sharp increase in the number of prisoners with foreign citizenship in Norwegian prisons in recent years. Many of the prisoners have neither a residence permit nor a connection with Norway. This shows that such reconciliation agreements are necessary. For such agreements, which have been discussed by many, the capacity of prisons will be improved. Such agreements also eliminate the possibility that foreign citizens view crime in Norway as a lower risk than crime in their own country due to good housing conditions in Norway. The Christian People's Party also wishes to clarify that it must be a prerequisite for such reconciliation transfers that the countries to which they are sentenced have ratified a binding Convention on Human Rights and that any transfer does not conflict with any of the human rights conventions ratified by Norway. In addition, there are some weaknesses in the agreement. As others have also stated, this agreement will only apply to prisoners with a pay-as-you-go period of more than one and a half years. The Christian People's Party should wish for the agreement to be extended, so that it also includes prisoners with shorter atoning periods. The vast majority of handkerchiefs and other small cellar rings are punishable from one and a half months to up to six months, and there are only a few of the real wretches that will get over one and a half years in prison. If compensation transfers were to really release prison capacity, the agreement should include all those who received more than two months of imprisonment. So for electronic control: Reconciliation with electronic control can be seen as a milder punishment than restitution in prison. The Christian People’s Party therefore shares the view of the Right and the Progressive Party that criminal proceedings with electronic control should be reserved for young offenders who are not convicted of many or serious crimes, so that education or work can be continued, and the risk of the young person entering a criminal career is reduced. My problem with this proposal is that it will still be possible to transfer perpetrators convicted of violent or sexual crimes to criminal proceedings with electronic control. Persons convicted of serious crime should not be allowed to undergo criminal proceedings by electronic means. It should be quite clear that criminal proceedings with electronic control should not be granted in cases where the offence has been committed at home or against members of the household. As the legal text is today, there is unfortunately room for this to be the case. That is why, like the Right and the Advance Party, we will vote against II. Finally, I would like to comment that the decision-making authority in this type of case should be moved down to a lower level of administration. The Christian People's Party is a warm supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, as we call it, which says that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible and most appropriate level. Then one might wonder how low one can go before challenging the appropriateness by moving the decision-making authority to a lower level. The assessments in these cases are largely based on judgement, and this allows for different interpretations by the different prisons. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that equal things are treated equally, and that a person receives different punishments from different actions and not from his place of residence. In addition, the transfer of the decision-making authority to the local level may be facilitated when all the states are covered by the scheme. The Christian People's Party supports the vote and votes against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e548	The Government proposes to extend the framework for the conclusion of bilateral agreements with other countries on the settlement transfer of convictions and that the Storting should now agree to the conclusion of the settlement transfer agreement between Norway and Romania of 20 September 2010. I am pleased to note that an overall Committee on Justice provides broad support for these proposals. It is also proposed to empower local levels of criminal justice to take decisions on the implementation of criminal sanctions by electronic means, in line with the general rule of the Penal Code. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of prisoners in Norwegian prisons with foreign citizenship. As of today, it is approx. 30 pst. of the prisoners in the conviction, non-residents. Many of these people have no connection to Norway, but come here with the intention of committing criminal acts. Most of them are expelled and transported to their home country once the settlement has been completed. The law on the transfer of judgments of 1991 incorporating the European Convention of 21 March 1983 on the Transfer of Judgments and the Additional Protocols to this Convention governs the transfer of funds. In principle, the European Convention on Transferability is based on jurisdictional consent to the transfer of compensation. Any forced transfer under the Additional Protocol requires final expulsion decisions in Norway before the request for transfer can be sent to the home Member State of the convictions. Many countries have legal proceedings before the transfer can be decided, which means a long period of proceedings in their home country – I would say a very long time of proceedings. After the conventions, the home country is free to refuse the shipment, and we experience this in a number of cases. Therefore, the provision of compensation under these Conventions takes an experiential period of time, often so long that the transfer does not take place until the judgment has been completed in Norway. The average duration of settlement transfer proceedings in 2010 was 434 days from the final judgment until the actual transfer took place. As far as I have brought about this, this procedure period has fallen significantly this far this year, which shows that we are on the right track and which well explains some of the increase we have in the number of settlement transfers. So there were 12 foreign prisoners who were transferred to continue to pay the penalty in their home country in 2008. In 2009, the figure was 30, while in 2010 41 foreign prisoners were transferred. We have saved quite a few days of settlement on and then we have also been freed. The government wants to increase these figures and transfer several foreign jurisdictions to continue to settle in its home country. The law on the transfer of jurisdiction § 12 permits the conclusion of bilateral agreements on the transfer of restitution, but after this provision Norway can only conclude such agreements if the jurisdictional consent to the transfer of restitution has escaped from the jurisdiction or has been definitively expelled. That is the background for today's legislative proposal to change. The proposed amendment to Section 12 implies that, in contracts not covered by the Atonement Transfer Convention, they are no longer a general statutory condition that jurisdictions must consent to transfer. Following this change, Norway can more easily conclude bilateral agreements with other countries and have matters dealt with more quickly. The EU has made a framework decision, to which it is referred in the debate, and we are working intensively to get an accession agreement against it. The representative, Mr Ropstad, said that we should also have agreements with Lithuania and Bulgaria. I just have to say that there is an agreement with Lithuania – happy enough. It is one of the countries that is well represented in Norwegian prisons. There is also now an agreement with Latvia, and it is very promising. I would like to give recognition to the Latvian, Lithuanian and Romanian authorities for the attendance they have shown Norway. They have far more crime than what we have here on Norwegian soil, and they also have to contend with capacity in prisons. It is exciting that we have managed to link the use of EEA funds to the measures we have in Romania, Latvia and Lithuania, and that we can have more intensive cooperation also in the field of justice policy in general, which I could say a lot about. So a little bit to the questions that the representative Octay Dahl raised in his post. In the agreement with Romania, in Article 9h, it is outlined that there must be at least six months of atonement or more remaining. This means that we have a big task in terms of bringing the card down the processing time here at home, but also getting agreements that make the processing time in the recipient country go down. That's the intention of the deal. That is why Article 12 states that these should be dealt with, essentially, within 90 days, which I believe will contribute – when ratified in Romania – to a shorter period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e569	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e572	The fact in this case is that with the long payback period for transferring to the home country, and that only those who have more than one and a half years of punishment, that is to say, it will be quite few that will affect. This means that in order to make this happen, Norway needs to use several types of instruments, and the Council of State itself was involved in the use of EEA funds. We know that a prison place in Norway costs between 3000 and 4000 kroner a day. On a visit to Romania, the Judicial Committee has seen for itself that there is a need to build many prison sites for NOK 3000 to 4000, equivalent to a cost of DKK 3000 to 4000 per day at home. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about distorting the use of EEA funds towards such a build-up of prison capacity in Romania.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e580	That is what the Ministry of Justice has been working on in recent years, precisely turning funds that have previously gone for many other purposes into the needs of the justice sector. I would like to mention, for example, Latvia and the grip that is being done there, where we are now using EEA funds to contribute to criminal justice – not just to the number of places. We were opening a youth department that we could use. Now there aren't so many Latviers in Norway, but it's a good model. We also help to make the quality so that it's advisable that we transfer reconciliation. I believe it is a very good mechanism to use EEA funds, and it also creates good will in the recipient countries to receive prisoners from Norway. But whatever we contribute, the Romanian, Lithuanian or Latvian authorities still determine the use of these places.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e589	I want to commend the Council of State for being active in these issues. He comments on this by several European countries. I want to start with that. For this purpose, a general requirement in the law – the framework that regulates this – is that there should be more than six months left of the judgment. It makes it extremely difficult to get a large number of reconciliation transfers at all, although it is very good that this figure has been increased somewhat, by making an effort related to red tape, etc., an effort to continue. But how does the Council of State see that we can solve the challenges of Norway having so many short judges? Are there any measures on the stairs? Can the Storting expect some issues that are going to increase the number of atonement transfers, so that you can resolve what is a brake and a knot to get more sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e596	That's a good line, because here's the volume. We see that there are at least three things you should do to be able to approach what is the formal threshold in the agreement, which is six months. First of all, we are entering into these agreements and having them ratified. These also need to be ratified in Romania, Lithuania and Latvia. The second is that we must ensure that the Norwegian procedure goes as quickly as possible, so that we do not spend undue time here. And the third is that we have a great opportunity to get more effective in this by speeding up the expulsion of those who are sitting on very short sentences in Norway. Once you have been sentenced to one or two months, it is difficult to get a compensation transfer. In that case, expulsion and expulsion must be the answer. I'm glad that last year the police alien unit sent out a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e607	That's good. But then there's a question of realism: how much is it possible to cut the processing time in relation to what you might have already done, and what you think you're going to do in a relatively short time? But the question was the actual measurement of punishment. I have my doubts that you can cut so much during the trial period that you get an increase in the number. And then the question is, is the Council of State willing to look at possible adjustments in the level of penalties? I know that we are dealing with the penal code relatively recently, and that we made some fundamental balances there, but to the extent that we see that this is still a significant problem, to what extent does the Council of State see that proposals for changes to criminal law can be made in order to make it easier to get more out of it – by getting tougher judgments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e614	I think we should be careful about making this a criminal measure. And I think that the representative Oktay Dahl will agree with me when he goes into this. If we do this as a punishment measure, it's easier to be expelled if you get strict judgment – and then you get strict judgment – it'll probably be troublesome. That won't solve the problem either. It will still be the procedure that determines when you are transferred. If it's been six months, we're the same distance again. So I want to say that an act that I think is exciting, which Kripos is now looking at, and which we are going into, is the possibility of sending out foreigners who commit criminal acts in Norway right away – for judgment in their home country. I know this has been discussed in Kripos in relation to specific issues. This, I think, is a good move, to say it like that, but it depends on that state being willing to follow up the criminal relationship – and has the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e621	It's good we get to such agreements. I hope we can make more agreements, with other countries, so that the foreigners convicted in Norway can zone in their home country. As has been mentioned here in this case, one must have a one-and-a-half-year sentence in order for it to be possible to obtain a payment transfer. It would have been interesting – I don't expect him to give a reply now – if the Council of State could at least provide a figure of how many percent of those who are profit criminals from abroad who can be remunerated to their countries of origin. It's okay to have a number on it, so that one can evaluate the scheme later, look at the consequences of this, and how much the Norwegian State might be able to save on it. So I want to get a number of how many percent of the criminals that can be transferred to their homeland. Is the Council willing to generate such figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e628	The answer is yes. We have some material on this. I can send it – in my own transmission. I don't have these numbers in my head. It is quite right, as the Progress Party and several others have pointed out, that many of these get too short a judge to be able to carry this out. That's why it's important, as the representative of Ørsal Johansen pointed out, to get more agreements. We have an agreement with Lithuania. That's very good, because there's a lot of people coming from Lithuania. It stands for Norwegian prisons. But we also have to try to get with Poland. That's why I'm going to Poland this summer, in July. I'm also going to have a bilateral meeting with Poland for the autumn to try to get to something of the same. The work on the EU framework decision is being carried out too fully. It could be far ahead, but we'll do what we can. It is possible to do something about the length of the procedure. It has been reduced in the current year to less than 300 days, I believe, from over 400. We're saving a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e637	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e640	The government and the state council get much and well-deserved praise for agreements on the implementation of settlement transfers. We have debated the matter violently from the Right, because we have been impatient to get this kind of agreement in place, and we also welcome the fact that the government puts a high pressure on this topic, so that we can get more agreements on the transfer of compensation as soon as practicable. There has been a strong focus on the number of foreign sentences in Norwegian prisons, and there is an important focus. But for the right, another element of the debate is also important as a reason for the urgent need to do more in this area. It is about the fact that foreign convicted criminals in Norwegian prisons also connect their own networks, so that the prison and the settlement itself are an arena for connecting networks to Norwegian criminals. They learn the Norwegian language, they get knowledge of Norwegian conditions, and in that way they grow fast – I would almost say – in the country and continue criminal activity in Norway. The type of network construction wants the Right to break, and it is an important additional consequence and an additional justification from the Right that we are impatient in this case. Then I would also like to bring forward the contribution of the representative Chaudhry, who expressed surprise that Right-wing votes against II, which involves moving decision-making powers into criminal custody. I repeat the Right's reason, as it is also stated in the comments, if the representative is in doubt about it: we are engaged in uniform criminal reactions and that the exercise of discretion itself should not lead to different criminal reactions in relation to the implementation of the penalty. That's our reason. We believe that this is a good reason, and we are so surprised that the SV representative does not support us in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e651	Both the Progress Party and the Right have strong opposition to electronic reconciliation in the debate and, to the extent, in the remarks, and the Christian People's Party did the same from the pulpit. I feel the need to take the word in relation to this topic, because I'm going to admit that my first thought when I heard about the scheme was that being at home instead of being in prison could not be a punishment. But after I joined the Justice Committee and spent a lot of time visiting different counties and getting involved in this scheme, I have changed my mind. As everyone knows, the aim is to prevent convictions from committing new criminal acts after an end of reconciliation, and the compensation involves a very strict regime that must be followed to the point and the point. The scheme is usually school or work a fixed period of daily life, while the rest of the day has to stay at home. If he or she is not registered at school or at work or moving outside the home, the footlink triggers an alarm, and the criminal services immediately move out or contact the police whenever necessary. In addition, the offender must be completely drug-free, and in the event of a crime, he must enter prison. In fact, the timeliness and implementation requirements of activity plans are so stringent and so demanding that more people have asked not to make the sentence complete with footlinks, and rather will zone in prison. It says something about how demanding this form of reconciliation actually is. So footlink sonning is definitely going to be a severe punishment, and the sense of deprivation is prominent among those who have this footlink on. I want more home reconciliation, because the experience so far shows that through this form of detention, the convicted person is doing better in society after release. As we all know, prison sentences often mean that the convicted person loses contact with the family or has difficulties in complying with his financial obligations, which, after settlement, can be a major challenge such as life crimes, unemployment, housing losses or drug problems. Then we know that the way to commit new crime is short for some. In the revised state budget, 6 million are now allocated. NOK for the current year to extend the plan further. With this expansion, all ten of the country's counties will have in place electronic housing. This actually corresponds to 240 prison sites. Until now, there have been 3,900 applications for electronic compensation. Of these, 91 have been transferred to prison following breaches of the rules. I believe that this is a good arrangement, which we absolutely must develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e668	The ability to transfer more criminals to the home country in order to zone there is in line with the general sense of law, and insofar as remuneration is in line with the system and the system in which it makes sense. At the same time, one has to say that there are alarmingly poor settlement conditions in other countries. The Justice Committee was last year in Romania, and I think most of us were shocked to see both toilet conditions, mugs, lack of rehabilitation measures, etc. The more important it is that EEA funds are channelled to improve reconciliation there, simply to allow more people to get out of a criminal career. When we address the issue of the conditions for foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons, it is doubtful that we need to meet international obligations. We cannot discriminate because of ethnicity or other group associations. Nevertheless, in the Ministry of Justice, the possibilities for having own departments and own prisons are under assessment. What I also think is right to assess and certainly also right to implement, all the time foreign prisoners should not be returned to Norwegian society and so there is no need for action and programming, which Norwegian prisoners want. And then there's another moment, and that's the relationship with them in criminal custody, because what I've got ready to respond to, is that it's not easy to be added when some of the prisoners from abroad might be more tough and picky than the Norwegian prisoners they're supposed to handle. And being able to gather them might also be an advantage for security. I will briefly mention that the Progress Party proposes to cut the daily allowance to foreign deposits entirely, and to Norwegian halfway. I can understand the background of the proposal, but I want to show again that one should not discriminate, and besides, the daily allowance is an incentive to work during soning. I think they're good at being able to work a little. So briefly about Schengen: when it comes to free movement of people, it is very good with it, but in this context, it can also be said that it means freer movement of criminals that we are concluding this agreement. I'm not going to say that we're going out of the agreement, but I think that common Nordic outer boundaries should be reconsidered. So I agree with the problematization when it doesn't apply to transferring by short judgments, because here's probably the most case. What I agree with the Minister of Justice is that the Norwegian procedure must proceed as quickly as possible, and that one must expel and coerce all those with whom it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e684	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Fotation, see page 4485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e700	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that there should be no repetition of the statements made by the Council of State and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e707	The proposal for a legislative decision that we are now considering, Prop. 93 L, is the result of the re-emergence of the question of the subsidiary prison sentence in the context of the Stortingen treatment of Ot.prp. No 31 for 2006–2007, which concerned measures to terminate the settlement queue and improve the content of the Penal Code. The Judicial Committee at that time, in 2005-2009, was concerned that a change should be made in relation to fines and therefore asked the government to come back to the Stortinget with a bill that provided for the need for an alternative to ordinary prison sentences. The Ministry sent a proposal for a wide-ranging consultation on 3 May 2010, replacing today’s system of subsidiary prison sentences by the use of community sanctions. In addition, the Ministry pointed out that this would also be a relief for prisons. There have been many good hearing replies, but as the rapporteur on the matter, I will only come within some of them. The Advocate General notes that it is important that it is not the only option for social penalties if the fine cannot be paid – this is because it is likely that for some people who have been fined, the incentive to pay would be too weak. Some of the criminal services are skeptical or oppose the proposal, in particular because the department is pressured resourcefully, and points out that many of those who are cured and do not pay the fine are struggling with serious drug problems, including mental disorders, and are not motivated to carry out an intended community service. Crime prevention fears that such a law decision will be time-consuming, resource-intensive and also costly. Once again, we see that resource access is the larger X. On the other hand, it is also pointed out that prisoners with financial resources sometimes impose subsidiary penalties rather than pay the fine. There are questions about whether community sanctions will be a sufficient means of pressurisation to pay, as is the threat of prison today. Furthermore, it is pointed out that social penalties are, in experience, a demanding form of implementation to follow up. As I said, different views have been expressed on the proposal, which is also apparent among the various political parties in the Committee. The parties to the government support the proposal in serious terms, but will certainly explain this later in the debate. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers that there are conflicting consultation opinions that have been obtained. For us, it is important to be able to see the difference between those who are unable to pay and who for that reason have had to pay the ordinary prison sentence, and those who choose the prison sentence instead of settling for themselves for other reasons. We share some of the criticisms of the proposed legislative proposal from the hearing bodies, in particular that there will be other problems in the implementation of community services for people who do not pay fines than in the provision of community services for others. Furthermore, we believe that the idea behind social sanctions is that individuals should be able to settle directly and not only through the use of fines. We believe in ‘restorative justice’, but we see in public that there is a lack of alternative remedies for community punishment, as the criminal authorities also point out in their hearing opinions. A worn-out drug addict who has no ability to pay who is taken in the after-sales shop and is fined, is likely to be better rehabilitated by sorting empty bottles in the same store than by having to make a living. That is why we are also promoting proposals on the possibility of a private fine, and in particular where the offence has been committed. What we see today is that the public is struggling to get places available for fines. Often, there are places that are neither socially useful nor have a rehabilitation effect. I'm perfectly aware that I'm putting this a little bit on the verge, but I have faith that it can actually be more preventive for some people to be able to make up for themselves 'face to face'. I'm so credulous! The Progress Party also agrees that we need to get a better overview of the impact of the work carried out by the criminal services, and we therefore support the Right in that we need an evaluation. I address the proposal on which we are alone, and I also address the proposal on which we stand with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e745	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e748	I am pleased that today we are going to make changes to today's system of fines. The government proposes the imposition of fines as an alternative to prison if the fine cannot be paid. On several occasions, the Judicial Committee has previously stated that support should be given to the exclusion of closed prisons for the purpose of fines and the last time that St.meld has been examined. No 37 for 2007–08, Punishment that works, once again received the support of the government from an overall Judicial Committee in the context of the implementation of the fine service. This proposal is important for several reasons. In 2009, a total of almost 35,000 days was spent in prison. It's about 100 prison places. We know the police are delivering good results. This means that the situation in the criminal justice system is under pressure, and the coating is high. It is therefore good that we can now free up prison capacity by introducing an alternative criminal response that can be carried out outside prison walls. If someone gets a fine, you can't strictly choose whether to pay or not. As long as the fined person has money, it must be paid voluntarily or by coercion. Many of those who are in the penance zone today are people who simply don't have the money to pay the fine. Someone sees himself forced to commit new crime to pay the fine, while others may make family or friends pay it. You might wonder how meaningful it is to use penance as a means of pressuring people to pay a fine with money they don't have. Today’s system has many forms of indebtedness that contribute to social discrimination. Many of them are heavy drug users. They're taken for crimes that initially don't qualify for prison sentences, but then there's just a lot of them in prison. The Labour Party therefore believes that the legislative proposal would be positive not only because it frees prisons, but also because of individuals. We avoid a situation where there is a significant impact on some of the weakest in society, and also in the interests of rehabilitation, fines are a better option than in prison. Penalty don't make people better able to deal with life, maybe it's the opposite; you get out of prison even poorer than when you went in. When fines are introduced as an alternative to prison, the cured person will be able to continue his daily life, for example: with schooling or professional activity. Fewer people will have to borrow or finance the fine in criminal acts. I think that, in sum, this could have a positive socio-economic effect. The community has better and more appropriate ways of responding to those who have trouble paying their fines than of calling for compensation. The working party is happy that we are now using these. Criminal services are now to prepare how the fine service is to be organised and implemented at the practical level. Like the case rapporteur, I also believe that there have been a lot of good hearing opinions, and I would say that it is a good starting point when criminal services are now going to put this into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e771	The right is essentially in favour of the proposal submitted. It involves an appropriate adjustment of the subsidiary penal response by fines, from prison sentences to increased use of community services. As the case shows, the intention is also linked to the government's desire to increase the use of social penalties. To the right, this is also about a proportionality between crime and criminal response, and that the bill opens up a reasonable degree of flexibility in terms of the criminal responses you face. In addition, as the previous speakers have also explained, this will release accumulators, where there is a great need for settlements. Nor do we ignore the fact that there may be economic savings in the extension of this proposal. But for the right, this is a positive side effect. Our main reason for agreeing to the proposal is therefore essentially related to the flexibility of the criminal response in these cases. Both the committee and the various party fractions have been visited in Norwegian prisons. In any case, many of the prisons of the Right Judicial fraction have been visiting, places where the so-called penitentiaries serve – to say the word – or have their atoning. In these prisons we've learned, and so far also, that many of these penitentiaries are worn out drug addicts. The attorney general is also very clear about this in his statement to the matter, that if those who are struggling with alcohol, and many with mental problems, are going to go into community service, that service must be adapted to that relationship. The national lawyer asks — and perhaps very timely — whether this is the case today. To the right, it is important that the situation be corrected so that the fine zones, which also need other measures in addition to purely criminal law, are met in a timely and appropriate manner. It is apparent from proposal No. 1, which the right is aware, that we also want to focus on the rehabilitation and the effect of criminal law. How can we ensure that we have the best possible knowledge of the good measures that prevent relapses into new crime? Quite frankly, we want more knowledge of what works out of rehabilitation measures in criminal matters, and we also point specifically to leadership skills as our own field of criminal care. We want more knowledge and more research in that field as well. So I hope the Council of State notices it, so that research efforts can be reinforced and focused on these points. Although we may not see that the government parties support that proposal, at least we hope that the intention of the proposal will be noted and taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e786	The Christian People's Party essentially supports the matter and believes that there is a very good intention behind the proposal. So I would say that the previous post was very good, and I would like to be able to just sign it myself. But I also want to comment on some of the elements of this proposal and want to problem them a little bit. Because we share scepticism with several of the hearing bodies, including: The national lawyer, to some of the moments here. I understand that the government with this proposal wants to abolish today's system, which they believe has the mark of indebtedness and contributes to social discrimination. But I'm afraid the proposal doesn't take into account that many of those who are unable to pay the fines are addicts, who in any case won't be fit for community punishment, as serving the community penalty requires being drug free. It is also important to clarify that the vast majority of those who son fines are ordinary people who will experience the atonement of prison sentences as a powerful stigma. For this group, paying a fine is probably more tempting than punishing a prison sentence. If the option of paying the fine is to end the punishment of society, it may be that more people see it as appropriate to take advantage of it, as most people will see social punishment as a much less punishment than prison. The Christian People's Party shares the minority's view, that it is problematic that criminal care is characterised by closedness, and that there is little opportunity to request evidence of the effect of the change that is being done. That is why the Christian People's Party also believes that increased research efforts in criminal matters are important, and it is necessary for the Riksrevision to carry out, to a greater extent than at present, an overall review of the means available to the criminal services. The Christian People's Party also shares the minority's view that the proposed law can contribute to an even more demanding situation for criminal services, both in terms of resources and professionalism. The Christian People's Party thus supports the Right and the Progress Party's proposal that the government should strengthen the external research effort in order to measure the content and impact of the work of criminal justice, including the content of the community sentence and the leadership competence of the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e799	This is an important day, because in many ways we adopt an alternative to a lot of what meets those who are unable to pay their fines. For the government, it's been a matter of power in the work we've been doing on criminal matters, that we can think of alternative ways. Now some people might say that there are not so many of them, but it is actually that during this debate, and the previous one, and this decision, when implemented, we are able to save so much capacity in criminal care and the closed places that during these morning hours we have built a medium-sized prison in Norway. It's between 70 and 80 places occupied by penalty zones, as far as I'm concerned, and it's obvious that here we have great opportunities to take some action to hit better. I think the case rapporteur, Michaelsen, made a very good statement and explained well to the case. The consultation process, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, is worth listening to when it comes to its implementation and the preparation of detailed guidelines, and how this should be started. There are in particular two issues I would like to mention, which I think are interesting, and which were also discussed by the rapporteur. One is the possibility that more than what the bill might have, one might think of ‘restorative justice’ when it comes to fines. There's a video that I think we should bring with us, because we might talk a little bit past each other when it comes to the private implementation of the social penalty, as it says in the proposal. But it's like, if you can help in a community sentence and a community service to restore damage, we've had a double effect. So I'd like to ask you to consider turning it into a transmission proposal, because I think it's a thought that needs to be reinforced in the implementation of this. I don't think we very much disagree that if you manage to implement the penalty zone so that you can restore damage – for example, that a 17-year-old who has broken down a wall, gets a fine and helps paint that wall – it is, according to my concepts, a good service. Then we move on to a criminal reaction that is not just a hit – that you get a pain – but that you actually also help to make the situation easier for those who are affected by crime. So I think that's what we should listen to, and I think that criminal services are ready to look at it, and that it's actually done to a certain extent also by the implementation of traditional community services today. The second relationship is the Right's proposal for increased research efforts on this. We do not disagree here either. So I'm going to ask the Right to consider doing about that proposal, too, especially when you hear what I'm saying now, because we have research going on social punishment, and have had research going on social punishment, both nationally and Nordicly, and it's about power for us, now that we're starting more alternative responses, among other things. electronic control, extension of social sanctions, etc., that we measure how we succeed in doing so. I know that the Central Statistical Agency is doing a survey on our mission on this, but we are working on a research strategy that I think should have as a very central moment to step up our efforts towards measuring the impact of the new reactions. That should be the first priority in our research effort, because this is where we have made significant political change, largely in agreement, here in the house. I am very willing to look at that, especially in the context of that research strategy. So my strong request is to submit that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e810	It is very nice to hear that the Minister of Justice is so positive about this proposal and will take it into consideration and take a closer look at it. Of course we agree to also submit the proposal. That also applies to the proposal on which we stand with the Right. It may be transmitted. It's very good, very positive – not least considering that this is perhaps an area in which several departments are really involved – that you're good at looking a little bit beyond, not just your own department, because this affects many other areas. So, by lifting in a flock, you could get a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e815	The President is uncertain whether both proposals were converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e818	They are.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e824	Both proposals have been converted into transmission proposals. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e842	This case concerns amendments to the rules of procedure for mergers and fissures of public limited-liability companies and involves major simplifications for companies. The Committee supports the Ministry's assessment that it is desirable to maintain a high level of parallelism between the general stock law and the share law, provided that the two types of company do not differ. It is therefore also proposed to propose some amendments to the Shares Act which correspond to the proposals for amendments to the General Shares Act. It follows from the observations of the case that the Committee endorses the proposal that the merger report in respect of limited liability companies should always explain the importance of the merger to the employees. However, some mergers are carried out in which the companies do not have employees. In this context, a Joint Committee demonstrates that some of the objectives of the Directive are to reduce administrative burdens and costs, and considers that such a report is unnecessary. For companies which do not have employees, the Committee takes the view that a separate report on the importance of employees is unnecessary if all shareholders in the company have agreed not to report on the merger itself under Sections 13 to 9. The Committee hereby submits a unanimous opinion. The Committee has noted that none of the hearing bodies has expressed a negative opinion on the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law. In particular, the proposal has broad approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e860	The changes in public stock law and the stock law we are dealing with today are initially a matter on the basis of an EU directive. Essentially, these are simplifications in the documentation and reporting requirements of companies engaged in merger or fission processes. We know that the form of the corporation is the most used form of corporation in this country. So this is probably a good move in the government's simplification policy and which next time makes it even more profitable to run businesses in Norway. Then I am very pleased that there is cross-political agreement on the understanding of sections 13 to 9 of the share laws, namely that a company that has not added must not produce a separate report on the meaning for them to be added if all shareholders in the company have agreed not to report on the merger itself under the Share Act § 13-9. This has also never been the opinion of the government, but I still find reason to clarify this, as the case-speaker did, as this was somewhat unclear at the beginning of the treatment of this proposition. This clarification is therefore in line with the input received by the Economic and Social Committee, the NHO. Of course, companies which have joined must always do good in their merger report for the meaning of the merger for them to be added. Finally, this is a case that concerns both good procedural rules and not least a simplification of documentation and reporting requirements for the limited liability companies. The latter was not required by Norway under the Directive, but the government follows up the Soria Moria II declaration, where business simplification is one of the many important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e877	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e893	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e902	As a society, we have an obligation to protect those who need us the most. We know that domestic violence and abuse hit defenseless children particularly hard and brutally. There is therefore a cross-political agreement to strengthen the legal certainty of children and measures to prevent and combat violence and abuse against children. The matter we have to deal with today is the follow-up to a decision taken in Stortinget on 4 March last year. Two proposals have been made for the introduction of mandatory death testing at the time of the death of children. I think I can say that there was cross-political consensus and all parties wanted a mandatory death warrant. In the past, the Ministry of Health and Health in a letter had asked the Ministry of Justice to assess whether this would be in accordance with the Basic Law § 102 on house inquisition. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice considered that there was doubt as to whether the system of forced site-of-death examination would be in line with the Constitution. The basic law, as the majority chose to interpret it, set limits to a compulsory scheme. However, the Committee then called for a review of practices from other countries, countries which may have been associated with the European Convention on Human Rights. The now promoted proposition provides an overview of practices in other countries. It shows that neither the Nordic countries, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom nor Germany have mandatory site-of-death surveys without suspicion of criminal activity. When the Constitution set limits for a mandatory regime, a Joint Judicial Committee asked the Government to present proposals that contained the obligation to investigate in the event of sudden and unexpected child deaths. The obligation to investigate, said the committee, should be independent of suspicion, and we also think it is good that the proposal now being promoted applies to all children under 18 years of age and not just children between zero and three years of age. The government's proposal has been being consulted and has received massive support from the hearing bodies. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal. The Committee considers that there is a good measure to detect deaths caused by criminal offences. The Committee considers that the obligation to investigate will help to strengthen legal certainty for children. The experience gained from the Children's cause of death project, which ran from 2001 to 2004, which offered voluntary site-of-death studies, showed that most people agreed to the offer. The experience was positive, for it created more security and security for what had happened, and that was exactly what was important in the grieving process. The proposal for a non-suspected investigation will also lead to the release of the burden on third parties of the investigation only when there is a suspicion. In the same proposition, the Government proposes changes to the provisions of the Criminal Code on violence in close relations. The reason for the proposal is that the Supreme Court in its judgment of 31 March of this year found that this paragraph of the law does not include violence against former consorts. As you know, the rights of victims of violence in close relations have been extended and strengthened under this government, but with the judgment of the Supreme Court, those rights will not include former consensual residents. It is particularly serious that children of former cohabitants do not want the reinforced protection provided by Section 219 of the Penal Code. With the proposed changes to the proposition, the wording of the law will now be in line with what was originally the intention of the legislator, namely that former cohabitants are also covered by Section 219 of the Criminal Code. There is reason to commend the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for having been out here quickly and will ensure that this amendment of the law comes into force quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e919	There is mutual political agreement – it has always been – that it is very important that abuse and violence against children be exposed, investigated and convicted. The size of these issues has been raised in the past, and it has been hoped to look at this practice in relation to surprising deaths among children. In this context, I would like to give some credit to the government and the Council of State for having acted relatively quickly. The document now on the table is pleased with the Progress Party, even though we still have some doubts as to whether the mandatory Place of Death Survey would be contrary to the Constitution. The party of progress is still of the opinion that the best guarantee would, of course, have been to have mandatory investigations — or forced — in the event of sudden and unexpected death. However, we record that the government has done its job by investigating which practices are being used in other countries. It turns out that several countries face the same challenge. In fact, like the rapporteur, I believe that the obligation to investigate that is now imposed, which is completely new, will provide a new practice – for all under 18 years of age – which, hopefully, will also lead to the detection of any criminal acts in which one has sudden or unexpected death. Like the rapporteur, we also believe it is satisfactory to see that the Ministry of Justice can act very quickly, in particular by closing holes in our law that state that some people are not protected by the law in relation to violence in close relations – in this case violence against former cohabitants. That's why it's very good that we get the law so quickly according to what Stortinget has previously wanted and expressed. Some may still ask questions about whether this obligation to investigate will provide the desired results. I hope that the Council of State will state in its statement that this new investigation obligation will be consistent with what is stated in the proposition, pointing out that a rule of competence is included in the Criminal Procedures Act that the police can investigate in all cases where children die suddenly and unexpectedly. The rule shall be supplemented by a pre-condition of the prosecution directive which lays down an obligation for the police to investigate in such cases. Just that text and that very reference is what makes me sure that the investigation obligation will also achieve what you wanted in the past, namely to reveal whether there have been criminal acts inside the picture in the event of sudden and unexpected death.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e932	This is an important issue that has come about through a mix of shared party virtue, pressure and media attention. I want to start by commending the two journalists on TV 2 who this year received the DIXI award for their year-long and broad commitment to this kind of question. At the same time, I also want to praise the Stine Sofie Foundation, which together with them has created the necessary political momentum that has led us to get where we are today – because it has been quite a long way to come up with this proposal on the obligation to investigate, which is therefore supported by the Right. It's gonna be late, but it's gonna be okay. Several times, the Right has proposed mandatory site-of-death studies, and there has been a strange and interesting process. Suddenly, after consultation in the committee, it was found out that the situation in the United Kingdom had to be investigated. It was a little special to see that you had to have more Document 8 proposals before you finally came up with this, but I'm going to leave it. We still believe, in principle, that compulsory site of death testing would be preferable. I note that for a long time very much emphasis has been placed on, of course, the Law Department's statement, but I also think that perhaps one should rely a little more on this hall's ability to interpret the Basic Law, as a more important element than laying down a flat for an interpretation opinion from the Law Department. Although the Law Department consists of far more ludicrous candidates than the undersigned, and perhaps the Council of State as well, perhaps the Stortinge could sometimes address constitutional issues more thoroughly and make independent assessments. But I'll leave it. It belongs in a completely different debate. At least we have come a long way with this bill today. At the same time, on behalf of the Right, I want to warn against the belief that this law itself solves anything. In order to carry out more investigations, prosecutions and more convictions, it is about the competence and resources of the police. It's also about the will of the police, and it's about the power, because in these kinds of cases, which are far from being status issues inside the police, there's a lot of prerequisites that need to be put in place for us to have more appeals and more convictions – not least in the courts, where we know before that you're milder for violence against children, among other things. due to a lack of knowledge of the amount of violence or violence to cause certain types of harm to children. So there is also a need for a level playing field across the justice sector in relation to that. Then I want to challenge the Council of State on something that I know he's concerned about like the opposition. There is the question of research in this field, in order to document how little or how much violence a child has been subjected to, is not competence that the police have by themselves. It is a competence and knowledge which, unfortunately, the public has failed to acquire in part, because it is private actors and foundations who have to research and put their own resources at their disposal to ensure that the public is given that knowledge, so that we can get more convictions and more severe penalties for this type of crime committed against children. So I would like to ask the Council of State to say something about how he's going to get the law to work, so that the intentions behind, which we also support, are realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e945	SV is pleased that the government has made proposals that oblige the police and prosecution authorities to investigate when a child dies suddenly and unexpectedly, regardless of whether there is a suspicion of criminal offences. Children are perhaps the most vulnerable in a society. We know that children too are subjected to violence, but we do not know for sure which. Therefore, there may be uncertainty about the cause of death if and when a child dies suddenly and unexpectedly. It may be difficult and demanding for relevant actors to contact the police without ensuring that any criminal offence has occurred, even if there is doubt and/or discomfort. On the other hand, it could be a burden for grieving parents to have police visits where nothing criminal has happened. By giving the police an obligation to investigate all unexpected and sudden child deaths, children’s legal certainty is strengthened. On the other hand, stigma is removed from families where nothing criminal has happened, but the child has died suddenly and unexpectedly. The obligation to investigate applies to all cases where a child under the age of 18 dies suddenly and unexpectedly. In addition, in all cases of sudden and unexpected child deaths where the child is between 0 and 3 years of age, the government has undertaken to provide a mandatory offer of site-of-death studies under the direction of the health care system. Here I would like to commend all the actors who have contributed and helped put the matter on the agenda and helped to find good solutions – both in the Stortinget and outside Stortinget. The red-green government has put violence in close relations high on the agenda. I am therefore pleased that we are now changing the penal code for violence in close relations so that it also includes violence against former cohabitants. The judgment of the Supreme Court of 31 March of this year found that former cohabitants were not subject to the penalty. Everyone should be entitled to the same protection against violence in close relationships regardless of previous life status. When violence is committed in close relationships, the distinction between former spouses or former consensual residents is not relevant. The assault is equally serious. I am also pleased that children of former cohabiters now receive greater protection under Section 219.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e960	Society must take greater responsibility for protecting young people who grow up in unsafe homes — homes where they are subjected to violence and abuse, which in worst cases can also lead to death. The proposal on the obligation to investigate when children under the age of 18 die suddenly and unexpectedly is the result of the fact that all parties on the Stortinget – and the government – have wanted to change the rules to better protect the legal certainty of killed children. Responsible persons shall be held responsible and judged. The changes in criminal law that we are handling today are right after the worst has happened: how best to investigate and detect possible killings on young people. I still hope that the changes will prevent this from happening. The risk of being drawn for killing may be increased by a certain general preventive effect, although this is difficult to know for sure. Willingly, several perpetrators will be convicted and punished, helping them, at least while they are in prison, not to be guilty of new violence against several of their children or against other children and young people, and when they release again, one will be able to follow them up, as well as their families. One of the strongest and worst moments I've ever seen as a politician was when the Justice Committee conducted an open hearing on the issue of mandatory city-of-death investigation. The pictures that Rognum of the forensic institute showed us from the so-called Christoffer-saka were to be greatly upset and unwell. That someone can abuse kids so grossly, is incomprehensible to most of us. The more important it is that we dare to see in the white eye that it happens, that kids lire every day because those who should have taken care of them, don't do it. Then all of us get into the image: We politicians, when it comes to the law and the framework that gross violence and killing can be prevented and discovered by kindergarten staff, teachers and child protection, who, on suspicion, have to take matters further to the police neighbor, who not only has to turn away, but realize that not everything going on within the four walls of the neighboring house is a private matter. It has been discussed up and down in the opinion that Section 102 of the Constitution, which relates to house inquisitions, prevents a mandatory death-place search in case of sudden and unexpected child deaths. A Joint Judicial Committee has primarily sought a mandatory scheme with a team of both investigators and health professionals, which according to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice is likely to run counter to the Constitution. Then it has been imperative to find a way to design the law that brings us almost possible this primary wish, and I mean the bill that we are dealing with today, do just that. An investigation obligation will enable the police to detect and clarify several cases of choice and killing. A mandatory provision for parents to investigate the city of death, together with the obligation to investigate, is a step forward. The police shall also be informed if someone denies such a city-of-death investigation. However, the police cannot investigate the very place of death without parental consent or reasonable grounds for suspecting a criminal offence. This is how I would point out that we should follow closely how the new law will be practised and how it will work, in order to take more action if necessary. The goal is clear, and it is that fewer possible young people will be subjected to gross violence and killing, and that the devastation will be discovered when the worst happens anyway. Of course, when it comes to the amendments to the laws relating to previous partners and their children, I end up with this and refer to the comments of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e989	First, I would like to commend the Committee for good work and for many good posts already. So it's like, when you're not represented in the committee, it's fun to see when the setting comes, how it is, but it's also nice to see how things that have been dealt with before in the committee are followed up by the government. In this way, I will also give tribute to the Council of State, which has acted quickly and has been a driver in this matter, along with the Right, who has at least promoted two representatives. Despite the resistance you have seen and been met with, among other things. in the Law Department, the Great Mountain has now come, an important step forward. When you cannot write comments, you must be able to make some criticism in the matter, and I will also note that although this is very good, it could have been done before. Losing your child is one of the worst things you can experience as a parent. Then it is important for society to set up and be present for its parents, as well as for other relatives. Setting up means providing the necessary skills and help, but it also means trying to answer some of the questions that are asked, whether it is from parents who are unsure about what has happened or from around the world that are concerned about whether something serious has happened. Being able to reveal it if something serious has happened could also prevent it from happening again. In this way, too, society has an obligation to reveal it if criminal offences have been committed. I would like to repeat, like the representative Octay Dahl from the Right, the message that mandatory site investigation would be the best, and so I would like one to challenge the Law Department more as to whether there is a breach of the Constitution. As I said, this is a good step on the way, but I think you could get more. That is why I hope that the Department and the Council of State will continue to work on a mandatory site of death study. There is also a need for more knowledge in the field and, as others have pointed out, the Child Death Project is a good example of getting some knowledge. But it also shows that you need more knowledge. That's why I hope there's some of the things that are being put into focus in the future. What I would also like to say is that when someone starts such an investigation obligation, it could also help those parents who are concerned that their kids are dead, but there is nothing serious about it. I think this might be positive to reveal what's criminal, but it could also be a support for what's non-criminal. Finally, when one has lost his child, and it is linked to investigation and becomes a major concern around it, I would like to point out from the Christian People's Party that although we are very much for what is being done, and want it, one must be sure that the investigation that is taking place, the communication that is taking place with the survivors, is taking place in a very good way, and that the parents who have lost a young person are met in a dignified and good way. Several have mentioned that, for example: the concept of questioning can be negative for many. Conducting a conversation may be easier and less stigmatizing. But in the fullest sense, the Christian People's Party is very happy that this is coming, and then we are impatient after it will come more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1008	Domestic violence particularly affects children, and it is not as easy for the community around the family or public sector to detect violence. It's one of the main challenges we have in combating violence in close relationships. In the tragic cases of violence leading to death, it is particularly important that the police initiate investigations as early as possible. The proposal proposes to impose an investigation obligation on police and prosecution authorities in all cases where children under the age of 18 die suddenly and unexpectedly. It's going far. Derogations shall only apply where it is evident that the death is not the result of a criminal offence. The proposal follows up the Storting Decision of 4 March 2010 No. 189. The amendment of the law means that investigations are to be initiated in the event of sudden and unexpected child deaths regardless of suspicion. It is my hope that such a system will reveal – and, as many people have been involved in it – several cases of violence against children, thus strengthening the legal certainty of children. I am pleased that the Stortinget supports this important legislative change, and I will ensure that it is followed up with the necessary changes in the prosecution instructions. I would also like to ensure that the Department closely follows – as many have been involved – the rules on professional secrecy in order to ensure that the investigation obligation has the intended effect, as the Committee also asks. The proposal also proposes an addendum to the penal code on violence in close relations. This makes it clear that former and present consensual residents enjoy equal protection in line with spouses. Penalties against violence in close relations were re-edited and modernised in 2005. Of the pre-workers, it is clear that the legislator intended to give cohabiters the same protection as spouses. This understanding had some support in a 2005 Supreme Court decision. Following the decision of the Supreme Court on 31 March of this year, this understanding can no longer be maintained and it is important that the legal status be brought rapidly into line with the legislator's assumptions. We've done that to the greatest extent, as fast as we can. So I just want to say to the main proposal on the obligation to investigate that there has been a broad debate about this. I think that's healthy. There are several reasons, as the representative Ropstad was involved, to deal with these matters. And it is absolutely essential that the investigation obligation that the police are given is carried out in a nominal way. We must be prepared that we can also get reactions from parents who believe that they are being investigated in a very difficult phase of life. We must be prepared for that. There are strong symbolic signals sent when you open an investigation case – it's like a carpet of suspicion all over the place. Any of us can imagine what it would be like to lose a child and at the same time get a sense that in many ways you're indirectly accused of doing something wrong. Perhaps the biggest challenge in this is that we don't impose greater burdens on parents than they do, in cases where nothing has happened criminally. So to be able to carry out this obligation of investigation in a nominal way becomes absolutely crucial to what kind of legitimacy and trust you get in these matters. Then I also have to say that imposing an investigation obligation up to 18 years – as we suggest – may be one of the strongest signals we can give against violence and abuse against minors. I also believe that this is a very appropriate instrument for bringing other types of investigation to the table where necessary. However, it will require that you have due cause for suspicion, for example. in order to be able to use coercive agents in the form of search, etc. So going into the matter in this way could help speed up the necessary steps. So I'm optimistic, especially about the work done by the Ministry of Health on the site investigations. Questions have also been raised in the debate about the opinion of the Legal Service. I belong to those who are very happy in the Law Department, and believe that there is a lot of good news written. I'm probably not as much of a fan of pushing any more – as it's almost said – towards the Law Department in order to get a different position. I guess then the solution for those who are set to make new laws is to look at the constitutional provisions if you disagree that what is concluded from the Law Department should be in line with the Constitution. But it is, of course, up to every big thing to consider the opinions of the Law Department on a free basis. Once the statement has been received, I find it difficult to take more rounds on that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1030	I'm happy in the Law Department, too. There are a lot of people who put a lot earlier in the reading room than I did, who sat too much in the canteen and drank coffee on the cane. But that was not what I was going to ask questions about. One point I raised is that the prerequisite for implementing this law is the level of knowledge of the police. They need that knowledge from somewhere. Now in the Right we are very happy with private initiatives that do part of what the public might not do itself. But when it comes to making sure that you have enough knowledge to appeal and sentence more, knowledge of what violence does to children is important. And then the Stine Sofies Foundation has long called for greater public engagement. Something's come, but not enough. Does the Council of State feel comfortable that there are largely private actors who have provided the research and the knowledge acquisition that is a direct premise for this law to be implemented, in terms of obtaining more appeals and convictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1040	Now I am not going to go into the replicator's consumption of coffee during the study period, but I know that he is fully up-to-date in terms of legal competence. As far as the question of research is concerned, as the representative is also aware and aware, it has been one of the important actions in the Vend-point action plan. But it is also the case that much of the premises of the research actually carried out are done by private individuals — not necessarily by non-commercial individuals, but by often independent foundations carrying out research in this area. I don't necessarily have any own scepticism directed at these. I believe that this is a good basis. What becomes the department and the government's responsibility is to order more research and get research started. This concerns everything from partner killings, where we have had to deal with professional secrecy, to extensive investigation of violence in close relationships, which the Ministry of Justice has worked out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1047	It is not to be a meeting plague, but there was no indication that the Council of State is not happy in private. I know that the Council of State is a solution-oriented man. The question was: Is it not a little convenient for the Council of State that the public has not taken the responsibility that the public should assume for the acquisition of knowledge? Because it's like Stine Sofie's Foundation has been almost alone in relation to part of the knowledge acquisition, with Baby Justicia and what we think the public should actually take responsibility for. There has been a direct reason why people may have had lower penalties for violence and killing against children than they have had against adults, that the public has not provided enough knowledge. That's what the question was about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1052	At least it must be such that it is not only external forces that initiate knowledge acquisition. That is why the government, with the support of all parties here in the United Kingdom, has chosen to make research and knowledge acquisition a very important part of the turning point – that is, the action plan. But I'm going to be the first to admit that there's certainly more to it, and that's why the department works with, among other things. this research strategy. At the same time, when it comes to violence in close relationships, violence against children and what is happening between partners, I think that there is actually a lot of initiative from the government that I think will be very useful to us. So if I'm going to point to one field where you've really become more intense in relation to research, I actually think it's this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1057	It was actually Oktay Dahl who brought me in on this with private. Now there's been a rocking-action going on across the country, where the Stine Sofie Foundation is also one of the initiators, who collects money for CT scanners just to have this in place to detect crimes committed against children. Isn't it a cross of thought when we get the law in place, and the committee has jointly pressured us to take care of it – to put it that way – that we lack completely elementary equipment that could have helped to expose crime against children? Isn't it a cross of thought that we can't get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1062	I don't know the rocking action in detail, but I know there's been an action going on. I believe it is absolutely essential to reveal criminal acts that the public has the equipment to which it is going – clearly. I do not intend to stand here and say that we are done – we have invested successfully. We have a lot left in this field. At the same time, I hope – and this has also been agreed upon by an overall increase when we have adopted the budgets – that there is a particular effort that has been made against children, who have been chosen to equip, whether they are building children's homes, where there is very important evidence, or family violence coordinators, the police district teams, who are going to reveal these issues. But that there are more equipment, among other things. To buy both in the justice sector and in health, I think it's quite obvious, and there's a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1069	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4489]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1087	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1096	The issue we are about to deal with now is a proposal for a representative dealing with detention sentences in enhanced probation procedures. I'll explain the majority's view. I'm assuming that the minority will prepare for it. A hearing on the matter has been carried out. As a clear result of humane justice, people in Norway are not sentenced to life sentences. The strictest sentence is custody, which is a timeless punishment with strict conditions for parole. A natural consequence of our not having a life sentence is that the convicted should return to society sooner or later. The question is how this should be done in order to enable convictions to return to a life without further crime. I once met an inmate at Ila prison and a detention centre who told me that 'politicians must wake up. You can't put us out on the street right from prison. You have to get us ready for society before you let us go." It was a clear message. This has been taken into account by the government, and the gradual return to society is an important part of the government's criminal justice policy. Many prisoners have more problems with living conditions, lack of education and training. Doing something about this is essential for prisoners to be able to participate normally in society after release. That's why the red-green government has a focus on the content of the ransom and the follow-up in retrospect. All prisons now offer education and training. Life under atonement shall prepare the prisoner for life outside the walls. Therefore, they should train to take responsibility and to take care of themselves. This also implies a gradual return to society through parole. The release from custody can only be decided when jurisdiction is no longer considered a threat to society. This is an important condition. Both the law and the criminal justice system can impose extensive conditions for parole. Some custodians may need reinforced arrangements, and this may include residences with day-to-day staff and continuous supervision. The Committee stresses that there is a condition for parole to be given to the institution or municipal housing unit that the municipality agrees to stay. Communication with and information to the local population prior to the establishment of such housing units is essential for having the local population as a counterpart rather than opponents. It is important that local communities are informed in a timely manner. This will avoid any uncertainty in the environment. On this basis, the majority consider that the draft representative cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1118	There is a cross-political consensus that we want to help people both feel safe and safe. So it's that the sense of security is a subjective feeling, which can often be difficult to define. For others, what some experience as security may be perceived as insecurity. For example, someone will feel secure with armed police in the streets, while others will feel insecure about the sight of the same armed policemen. The background to the matter we are dealing with today is that the proposers have registered that residents in a residential area are insecure because they have gradually been told that a dwelling in the area should be housed in custody, which has been granted parole. An important tool for building up people's sense of security is information. Information to residents in this area may appear to have been insufficient. I therefore understand that the residents express frustration and insecurity. The Workers' Party, together with a unanimous committee, believes that it is important that the local environment be informed in good time before the establishment of transitional dwellings or dwellings/institutions for probation from custody. Information on security measures and day-to-day procedures will provide answers to many questions, which hopefully will lead to less uncertainty. I have an example from when Lyderhorn's transitional residence in Bergen was established. There were strong reactions from the residents of the area. But after they got good information and answers to all their questions, and after they learned that the transition home works well and does not pose any threat, most have both accepted and shown an understanding of the need for the transition home. As far as I understand, the neighborhood must work well. There has also been, and is hopefully still, cross-political agreement in Norway that, after settlement, convictions should be returned to society. We have gradually received several forms of reconciliation that aim to contribute to this return. The government deserves praise for both expanding the prison capacity with a high focus on the content of the settlement and establishing alternative forms of settlement such as the drug programme with judicial control and electronic accomplices. This bet is entirely in line with St.meld No. 37 for 2007–2008 effective punishment. Those with custody are also to be returned to society. The custodians have a tight settlement system where a lot of money is spent on both the contents of the deposit, change work and safety assessments. The conditions for admission to probation are very strict and are assessed by several professionals. The regime and the organisation around the paroles are also strict, and safety assessments are high. It may appear that the proposers and the members of the Progress Party of the Committee mix the concepts of transitional housing, which is a prison, and a reinforced housing which receives parole sentences. I note that the proposers do not want the custodians to live in residential areas, but that they should remain in prison until they are released. I think that's the wrong policy. The gradual return to society will, in my view, enable the convicted person to function better without committing new crimes, and this in turn will lead to greater security for society and individuals. It will hardly benefit anyone that the detention or other convictions are held in prison until the day they are released and are to live in society on their own. The Workers' Party therefore does not support the proposal that the custodians should not be able to live in residential areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1141	Our role as magnification and as members of the Judicial Committee is to contribute to creating security in society. Therefore, we need to take it most seriously when government policies lead to people becoming unsafe in their local environments. We have recently seen more examples, for example. the case of the Borg in Ullensaker, that state policy with the phasing out of detention sentences to society creates insecurity, which creates great uprisings in the communities. I therefore think it is very good that we have got this matter on the agenda here on the Stortinget, because we have had a necessary debate on this settlement policy. There is a complete consensus in the Storting that when someone has finished curtailing their punishment, they will be re-starting their lives as socially useful citizens. However, there is a limit between the establishment of prison-like institutions in neighbourhoods with their families in a residential area – that is not what we are criticising – and the setting up of prison-like institutions without informing neighbours, communities, municipalities or others that this action is being taken. Because there is something more than a common social dwelling when creating a housing measure where there are strong security measures around the unit, where there are alarms on all doors and windows. In our opinion, it's a prison institution. Here, criminal services and the Council of State have to take for granted the fact that no more clear information has been provided to local communities. That is why I think it is very positive that, by promoting this proposal, the Progress Party has now achieved a unanimous opinion in the vote in which the Committee is in favour of: ‘local environments are informed in a reasonable time prior to the establishment of temporary residences for paroles or dwellings for paroles from custody. This will avoid environmental insecurity and address the issues posed by the proposers in the proposal for a representative’. It is obvious that early information on the action will help to address some of the challenges we have seen in these cases. But anyway, it's a question of how best to bring custody sentences back to society. The representative Torve may not have read the attitude when she claims that the Progress Party claims that we believe that these should go straight from prison to society. I would like to draw the attention of the representative to proposal No. 2, where the Progress Party is just proposing the establishment of a transitional residence in relation to the Ila prison and detention centre, where a national unit of competence is to help these persons to live a new and better life. Just gathering the resources around a small number of people, which this really is about, building up the skills around such a home, I think will be much better than what is being practiced today. In addition, I would like to address the fact that both the Council of State and the majority claim that it is desirable that custody sentences be phased out to the area where he is connected. We believe that this is quite alarming, because it is often where the custodians have committed their criminal acts. Then I will take up the proposals that the Progress Party is standing alone or with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1163	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1166	Repatriation of people with the most severe punishments we can give in Norway is demanding. We all understand that. It must ensure the ability of both the parole officer to function without making any new offences, and it must, of course, also take care of the safety and safety needs of the local environment. The right gives the proponents the honour to address this issue, even if the right does not support the proposals as they are originally made. All experience shows that information and the involvement of the local communities both provide understanding and mitigate possible conflicts in these cases. Many of us who also have experience in municipal policy have been lost in similar issues related to, for example, the use of drugs. the establishment of drug homes and psychatry, where the entire neighbourhood rises in protest, but where, after extensive and good processes at local level, good solutions can be found that create understanding. So it is for the sake of finding flexible local solutions that the Right does not support the proposals, even if the theme is important. Because through such processes, we also safeguard the possibility of a good readmission of the convicted person. We have therefore, together with the Progress Party, put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, which states that the Stortinget asks to be informed about the establishment of housing facilities for detention. That proposal has been taken up. I would ask that the proposal – that is, proposal No. 1 – will be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1177	The representative, Anders B. Werp, has then proposed – in agreement with both rapporteurs – that proposal No. 1 shall be converted into a transmission proposal and the text shall be corrected accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1180	When someone is sentenced to detention at an indefinite time instead of imprisonment for x months or years, it's because one assumes that there's a real and great danger that he or she will commit another serious crime when he or she comes out again. In any case, when a person is to be released after a time-limited prison sentence, which one has a son because of violence and abuse, there is no reason to take proportionate measures. When someone goes back to society after the detention penalty, this is at least as important, given the background to this form of punishment. As an additional security valve, the courts and criminal services have the possibility to implement an enhanced system when a detention sentence is to be paroled. On the one hand, there are probably good arguments that detention sentences to return to society, with or without specific conditions, benefit from moving back to the home municipality and the community. At the same time, it is most understandable that those who were victims of the crime convicted before the apprehension become apprehensive when they become parole or are released. In this way, it is particularly important that the security arrangements around this person are sensitive and well-intentioned to the extent that criminal services think there is a need for comprehensive measures and safeguards. One of the hearing bodies during the open hearing of the case pointed out that housing for custody cases creates insecurity in the area around it, for example. in a residential area where there are young people when the pedophilia deportees move there. This fear should be taken seriously. It is important that the local environment is well informed when transitional dwellings or housings are established for untested custody. Furthermore, municipalities and criminal services should make a careful assessment of the location of such housing. It is obvious that these should be avoided in some places. In addition, we also need to make sure that, through strict conditions and good security arrangements, we prevent the detention sentences in transitional dwellings or housing for paroles from making new mistakes. Not least, we need to avoid people who should actually continue to live in the detention centre being transferred to such housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1198	The purpose of the detention penalty is to protect society from new and serious crime. I would like to begin by stressing that probation from custody should always be carried out under safe and secure conditions, and that society's security is the overall objective. The transitional residences of criminal services are prison institutions specifically organised for sentences in the final phase of imprisonment. Through networking, social training and rehabilitation, they get in touch with the outside world as part of the transition to parole. Here I would like to stress that the group of detention convictions referred to in the proposal for a document 8 is not located in the transitional housing of criminal services, but is paroled to a separate, reinforced probationary scheme in the institution or municipal nursing home. The total is about approx. 21 pieces. Such placement requires the consent of the institution/municipality and criminal services depend on the designation of the place of establishment, where appropriate, of the appropriate housing. In principle, criminal services do not choose the place of residence of the custodians, but it is nevertheless emphasised that criminal services may refuse a given offer if they are not considered to be safe. The Penal Code allows the court, where there are specific reasons, to make probation conditional upon the detention of persons sentenced to detention in an institution or municipal housing unit with a comprehensive public service offer, while preventing him from leaving the dwelling freely and breaking any other conditions. In this way, there is a paradox in the debate that what is being problematic here is the institutions where you have actually locked the doors, while later in the progress you come to the house where you don't lock the doors, as many see as unproblematic, and that the neighbors react when the doors are locked, but do not react to the same degree when they move into normal housing units. It's a paradox. The release of samples under this option could result in residences occupied by the crew of the lucky day and, if necessary, in continuous supervision, as well as detention of convictions against their will and recovery by avoidance. The measure aims at low-resource detention convictions that will not be able to achieve a life outside the prisons of criminal law without such a comprehensive probation scheme. The scheme is intended to be a narrow rule of exception to the ordinary rules on parole and is initially intended for custody with a minor mental retardation. It is as mentioned a prerequisite for the establishment of a probationary scheme that the municipality in question consents to and that a current institution/dwelling is designated. A similar scheme is in place for unpredictable mentally retarded persons who have been subjected to the special reaction of compulsive care. The proposers express concern that detention sentences should be released into ordinary housing areas. I stress that all convictions, including those sentenced to detention, are to be returned to society after the end of the sentence. I believe that the safety concerns have been adequately addressed through the comprehensive control measures and the close follow-up that the scheme entails. For many convictions, it would be appropriate to stay at the place of residence after release. Experience has shown that contact with family, friends and the community is essential to the ability of the court to live a law-abiding life. Moreover, this group of convictions will often need a comprehensive public service offer, even after release. For this reason, it is also appropriate that they stay in their municipality of origin. A working group was appointed in 2006 to review the new provisions on non-discrimination in criminal law, specific criminal law reactions and detention. The working group reported on 30 April 2008, and the report is now followed up by the Ministry of Justice and Police in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and will provide us with a rich opportunity to discuss these issues on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1223	I understand from the statements made by those from the government parties that they understand the insecurity that many communities experience when they get these kind of institutions, as I would call them, in their neighbourhoods without the proximity being at all alerted, but that it is the people's own detective work and curiosity that reveal what is being established in the neighbourhood. And it is a concession when the majority of the committee now makes it clear that it is regrettable and that it must be ensured that local communities are informed in a timely manner. Therefore, I wonder whether the Council of State will take self-criticism on behalf of the Criminal Service for the practices that have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1228	I believe that criminal services have done a great deal of good information work around many of the establishments we've had in the last few years. Closed prisons, open prisons, temporary residences and other institutions have been established to address the issue of parole, and to a very large extent have been successful. But when I say that, I also want to say that you can never be good enough at information and communication when you set up the kind of institutions that we're talking about. That's why there's always a job to do for the criminal services and us in the Ministry of Justice to get even better at this, especially because -- I pointed out the paradox in this -- it's often worse to set up schemes that actually have better security than the alternatives. It shows to the full that there is a need for information to explain what this is all about, so that we can achieve maximum security for what is actually being established. Then we also have experience that even with massive information it is not possible to establish what you want. But essentially, the information has to be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1237	Information, whether in the case of asylum recipients, crisis centres or prisons, is incredibly important. It's good for the Council of State to stress it. However, in the last four–five years, there have been more examples of insufficient information to citizens or municipalities. I can mention the Kasjotten on Strömn – that's not the kind of dwelling it's talking about there, but there's some of the same attitude on the part of criminal services in informing residents and creating security. All parties here agree that we should have an outlet in society to rehabilitate. However, the question is whether there are elements of criminal justice that almost perceive it as a blank mandate to run on without taking the legitimate demands of the citizens on information and security seriously. So the question is a follow-up to the previous replicator: how has the Council of State intended to intensify the information work and the process of processing, which has been very critical not only in what we discussed here, but also in past issues that we have seen in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1246	I want to repeat that I am quite impressed by the criminal services, which have established all these places in the last few years, there are many hundreds, and also about how it has been in relation to the local environment – in the North Odal, Kristiansand, Halden and several places – where I think they have actually done a good job. I don't think the police department sees it this way -- I don't do it at all -- that you have some blank authority to place people in places out there. I can just say that the way I, as the Council of State, can intensify this is again to take it up in the department and with those who are just starting up, and make sure that the information happens. But then we have experience from Kristiansand, among other things, with temporary housing. I am not sure that there was a lack of information that made it difficult to establish. There was an extensive discussion. I do not think the criminal service in that case can be accused of having misinformed. At the final establishment that came in Kristiansand, out on Grim, with a transitional dwelling, which became a very successful establishment, it was probably completely different mechanisms, to say it neat, that made it a success of establishment, than information.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1255	It is obvious that the Council of State should take more self-criticism with regard to the lack of information, because we see again and again that that is not the case. In his letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that he considers it appropriate for the custodians to take up residence at their original place of residence when they leave custody. I believe that he believes that they now condemned in the so-called Alvdal case should settle in Alvdal when they release again after the prison sentence has been completed. I think it is very unfortunate that the Council of State writes this so clearly in a letter to the Committee. There are a lot more conditions here that need to be included before you can define this in such a categorical way. Does the Council of State agree that this may have an adverse effect on the neighbourhoods where such crime has taken place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1262	It will be especially important if we in the Grand Duchy are to decide where the courts in Norway and in specific cases are to settle. I would ask that you show some caution. With regard to the specific Alvdal case, it's like they ruled there, as I understand, don't live in Alvdal, so it would be an advantage if they were just settled in their home. It actually shows the challenge we face in criminal matters, namely that there are individual assessments being made. But the point that criminal services point to, and that I fully agree with, is that when it comes to the rehabilitation of all convicted people, regardless of which end you are at on the scale, you will achieve the most rehabilitation if you have contact with your community. Then you have to make individual assessments about this. I assume that criminal services do well when assessing safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1269	Now I'm not going to go into the debate that was about Grim, but I'd like to come back to what the Minister of Justice said when he was in custody, that the goal was for everyone to judge custody to go into society sometime. In my view, there are those in custody who are not going to go into society. Would it not then have been wise to go ahead with the proposal of the Progress Party here to create a transitional residence in connection with Ila in order to bring together competences, so that it does not spread, just to give these persons whom I believe should never have, to have an interim solution, so that one does not sit in prison, but is also not in an ordinary dwelling in a normal housing law? Wouldn't it have been a good idea to gather the knowledge, to pool the competence, to give these people an opportunity to function within these frameworks, which I think should be set?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1274	As far as the depositary is concerned, it is such that it is timeless, so that it is possible to assess this time and time again. If you think he's a major danger to society, he'll be in a closed ward. I think it would be a little strange if we were to start setting up institutions outside the prison walls for those we actually think should be inside the prison walls. My answer to the question is that for those who want to be in custody and have to expect to be in custody for a long time – it may be life-out for someone – we have to assume that it has to be in closed wards. So I just want to say in terms of concrete placements, I'm going to leave to the criminal services to decide what's most appropriate, see the moments Michaelsen pulls up. Finally, I also want to say that when it comes to the establishment of transitional dwellings at Grim, I actually think that's something the replicator should take up, because it shows a very positive establishment, a wonderful community and people who have really done a job to create good rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1281	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1286	I took the floor again because the representative Kielland Asmyhr suggested that I could not possibly have read the position, but I can assure the representative Kielland Asmyhr that as the case rapporteur I have both written many of the comments and, of course, read the comments I have not written myself, very well. I repeat that it may seem that the proposers and the Progress Party in the Committee combine the terms ‘transitional housing’ and ‘enhanced housing’ which accept probationary detention sentences. Transitional residence is by definition a prison. We have three types of prisons in Norway: we have the closed ones, we have the open ones and we have the transitional homes. It then follows the progress of the convictions where they are gradually placed in these prisons. It is now the case that the unemployed do not live in prison but in housing, and what we have discussed today is such reinforced housing with staff and strong security measures. Then I will put the question back to the Progress Party: Is it that the attitude of the Progress Party means that detention sentences cannot be paroled, if it is such that you do not want this type of housing that we are discussing here for parole? I agree with the Progress Party that it is particularly important to develop a good backlog work for the custodians, and I believe we are on the right track there. Among other things, we have recently opened a branch in Trondheim specialising in detention. Finally, I would just like to comment on the representative, Mr Werp, and the request for a proposal to be submitted. It's okay for the government parties in the committee that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1300	I have a couple of short points. Firstly, it is the case – and I believe that the entire committee should have within the skin – that detention sentences cannot be released or transferred to transfer homes until they have been carefully assessed up and down by professionals and found risk-free. Before that, there's nothing we can do. It is therefore in the nature of the matter that when the professional competence says that he can be transferred to a transfer home or released, this is what the Stortinget has decided. Then we actually have to start by agreeing with ourselves about what we really want. The second is that there is no doubt that local democracy is the cornerstone of our society, also in this matter. There is no doubt that all parties want local communities to be included in these kinds of decisions, because we respect local environments and local democracy, but also because if this is to succeed, it must be co-players and not opponents. Then it's a little interesting that the Progress Party is repeatedly trying to present it as if it's only the Progress Party that agrees with this principle, and that everyone else is opposed to it. This is a pretty cheap point, and it should keep the Progress Party a little too good for, I think. So my colleague, Torve, has already reported that we have no problems with the submission of proposal 1 to the government, precisely because – implicit in my post – they implied in this matter is not exactly a press group itself and then we need to be constructive in Stortinget to find good solutions for those who are inside and who are going to go out one day, and the local communities need good knowledge and information, and need to be a co-player in the creation and implementation of this type of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1309	I have, after all, pointed out some inaccuracies in this position on the part of the majority. I also think it is good that the Council of State said that we in Norway have some kind of life sentence. The custodian just means that in the case of those on the longest custody sentences, enough of them will never be released again. It is therefore a positive mistake to say that we do not have life sentences in Norway when we take into account what the detention centre involves. Then I must say to the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, who claims that the Progress Party presents it as if we are the only ones who are concerned with local democracy. I can cancel that. I believe that representatives from the other parties are also concerned with local democracy, but it was the Progress Party that had to put this issue on the agenda, precisely because the criminal service was not as concerned with local democracy and the community as the Justice Committee and the Storting is now clearly, with the clear observation that it is important to stress the importance of involving local communities at an early stage, if such housing is to be established. Then you will get a completely different process on this locally than what you have had so far, where this has come as a kind of troll in the box without anyone being informed at all. The Council of State now has to take it back to the Ministry of Justice after this debate is that there is uncertainty in the Storting regarding the lack of information. And as the councils also pointed out, you can never give enough information and get enough involvement in such matters. We've seen that in a number of cases, and it just shows that criminal justice needs to be much better in this area to avoid such situations. Rather, these dwellings should be established in areas that are more suitable than the areas in which these dwellings have now been tried to establish.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1318	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 4490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1334	I have to be relatively short. I can start with the Committee taking the annual report from the Stortings Judicial Service Committee for information. As the report shows, there has been a lot of activity even though there have been fewer cases. This is because the issues that have been dealt with have been a little more resource-intensive. We also record that the number of new applications is going down. However, there is no basis for believing that we are about to phase out the importance of these samples also existing in the future. Although we are now dropping one of the samples and getting less capacity, it is important to note that no new balances are being built up. As the position also says, it is quite right that there are no remains today in the state civil law administration in the field of justice, but there are still large balances in external trade unions, although here, as it is pointed out, it is still a positive development. What is perhaps most worrying is that there are still 450 relationships with the investigation of other professional bodies where the application was received in 2009 and, in fact, 40 as far back as 2008. So you might think that you're about to phase out and get fewer applications gradually, but the basis of existence of these samples is probably going to be there for a long time to come. The Progress Party also draws attention to a group, and it is the war children, who, in April 2005, were informed by a decision of the Judicial Committee of a judicial fee of NOK 20 000, which can be mentioned as being DKK 40000 below, among other things. tatters and samer were included in the same Decision. It appears from what the Losers are saying, that the mass of members of the war children has declined significantly in the light of this decision, because these believed that the decision was a clear outlaw and a strong discrimination against exactly the war children as they received only NOK 20 000 in legal compensation. There are also allegations that the war children have had so many problems that they may not have had application deadlines, etc., and that, therefore, there are many outsiders who do not have the opportunity to obtain the compensation on which it was based. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that a new round could perhaps be taken, create a new deadline for application and take matters relating to compensation for the war children up to a new examination. I am also promoting the proposals of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1347	The representative Per Sandberg has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1350	The judicial compensation scheme is the sole remuneration scheme of the Stortinget. It's about individuals who get into bad times with the public, looking for a discretionary compensation. There is, as the case-speaker mentions, a decrease in the number of cases relating to the special schemes, but applications under general schemes are unchanged. It's very important to have a quick procedure, because this applies to very vulnerable groups. I am pleased that the procedure has been considerably reduced, and that the defined objective of the procedure is, in all cases, being achieved. So a little comment on the proposals of the Progress Party, which was now being made, that the group of war children should be able to receive a new treatment. To that is to say that when Stortinget treats St.meld. No 44 for 2003–04, children of war were entitled to legal compensation on the basis of bullying. Bullying is initially not covered by the judicial compensation scheme. Together with the group of tattoos/spacers, war children are the only ones who receive legal compensation on this basis, and this can happen without evidence. It's only based on the seeker's own statement. In such cases, there is a possibility to grant a fee of NOK 20 000 regardless of whether a damage has occurred as a result of bullying. However, the amount of compensation is significantly higher if it can be demonstrated that bullying has caused damage. Where it relates to the remuneration scheme of the co-operatives and women after notification of St.Gemend. No 44, the order covers only the lost schooling during or immediately after the Second World War. The fact that, in some cases, war children and cohabitants have been granted different judicial fees comes from the fact that the basis for judicial compensation is different for the groups. If the war child has also lost schooling or has been subjected to other critical conditions from the public, or criminal acts, this could trigger judicial compensation in addition to what is granted on the basis of bullying. For lost schooling, war children will receive the same amount that will be granted to Samaritans, which is currently NOK 70000.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1381	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1390	The Municipal and Administrative Committee has examined a proposal from the two representatives of the Left on the rapid processing of asylum applications from criminal asylum seekers, limited to drug sellers. The situation along Akerselva in Oslo, where several of the affected are, in addition, asylum seekers in other European countries, without having to stay legally in Norway, is highlighted. The proposers promote two concrete proposals, one on the intensification of the negotiations on return agreements with the countries of origin of the asylum seekers most often arrested in drug cases, and the other on a so-called rapid file for the rapid application procedure and the rapid return of asylum seekers for serious crime. Rapid treatment is also proposed in place of the rules of the Dublin II Regulation, which states that we can demand return to the country responsible for examining the asylum application in question, without an application procedure in Norway. Instead, the proposers want Norway ‘in individual cases’, as it is said, to deal with such applications itself, with subsequent returns directly to the country of origin of the asylum seeker. The Committee did not consider it necessary to carry out consultations in the context of its examination of the matter. The position of the Committee is also not unanimous. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. With this, we signal that we agree on the matter, but that we consider the proposals to be superfluous. As an annex to the vote, the Minister of Justice's very thorough statement shows more than clearly that the proposals are already well taken care of in the government's work on asylum matters and return. The work on return agreements has escalated sharply under this government. 20 of 27 agreements have been concluded between 2005 and 2011. In 2008, a further 20 agreements were initiated, which are now being worked on. But agreements aren't enough. Force return requires a documented ID. A national ID centre was therefore established last year. We already have two quick procedures, 48 hours and three weeks, and in some cases we choose to deal with the cases ourselves. Since 2009, increased efforts have been made to combat drug traffickers in Oslo, Hordaland, Rogaland and South-Trendelag. In 2010, it led to 737 attacks in Oslo. The seizures came mainly from Algeria, Nigeria, Somalia, Tunisia, and the Middle East. We negotiate agreements with Algeria and Nigeria and have started work with Somalia. 42 of the apprehended were returned to their home country, most of them to Nigeria, Tunisia, Gambia, Albania and Iraq. The other two we have an agreement with, the first three don't. In addition, the government announced a case before the summer on the extension of the access we already have today to use coercive substances, among others. the place of residence imposed, as well as the extension of the use of prison. Now the Left is not represented in the Committee, but a minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have chosen to promote their proposal to intensify negotiations on return agreements, while they are more reluctant to recommend the application procedure in Norway for persons who can be returned to a second first country under the Dublin II Regulation, and have modified proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I'm assuming they're promoting and justifying themselves. On the part of the majority, we can already establish that the opposition is opening doors. This is their right, but the proposals do not add any new constructive ideas beyond what the government has already undertaken to address a serious social problem. They will also be able to accept that the majority have suspected them of having a slightly different agenda as well. For us who follow in the political change of words, it is striking how often the various opposition parties argue with all the proposals they have made in the Storting and have been downgraded. It is rather the rule than the exception in most public debates. If one goes a little further into the seams, a proposal of the type ‘struck open doors’, a proposal for measures already undertaken or prepared by the government for the treatment of landfills. With regard to this specific matter, I'm saying that the ‘we have been promoted and voted down’ argument is going to show up more than once during the election campaign here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1407	I would like to argue with the suggestions I had received in the Storting for the last six years, but it's a little difficult, as one has a compact majority government, which correctly cracks internally, but which stands together in this room. And it becomes a little comical – excuse me, President – to hear the representative Lise Christoffersen talk about that here the opposition opens open doors, when Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg four days after we gave this position, stood at the opening of the Oslo Labour Party election campaign and talked about sending criminal asylum seekers to the country. Now we may not want to take the full round of this again, but it shows at least one thing, that the full letter of reply sent by Minister Storberget – and it is complete – obviously has an improvement potential, as the Prime Minister had to make up his mind on the election opening of the Labour Party in Oslo, just what the Left-wing proposers point to, and as an overall opposition takes note, that it is too slow to have return agreements. It is true that agreements have been concluded with 20 countries, but there are still 20 countries negotiating to establish this type of agreement. It is true that there is an intensified effort to send asylum seekers back and treat them within the 48-hour rule, but that is only 2.5 pst. of the 10 000 asylum seekers who arrived last year, who have been treated under the 48-hour rule. Then there is one point that I think the majority simply did not understand, namely that here we are not just talking about asylum seekers who are in Norway for a long time, but we are talking about people who are being returned to the first country in Europe after the Dublin Convention, and who are using the journey home to order a new ticket to Norway to continue the drug addiction and crime here. That's this opposition wants to tackle. The majority have rejected the proposals, while the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party have modified the Left's proposal somewhat and state that this can be done within the framework of the Dublin Convention. It is possible to stop asylum seekers returning to Norway by providing them with a quick treatment of asylum applications in Norway, then sending them back to their home country, and not back to their first country. But of course it has to be the exception, it has to be when this is something that repeats. I think it becomes a little special when Lise Christoffersen continues the argument as if nothing has happened, precisely because Jens Stoltenberg made this his main point at the beginning of the election campaign in Oslo. Now, Justice Minister Storberget got a busy Wednesday last week to explain what Stoltenberg had really meant, and he did that in a good way. However, it is clear that on the Workers' Party's website and on the Workers' Party's various information channels for a long time, the best thing now to clean up in Oslo is to send asylum seekers back to different communities around Norway. It was not particularly popular with anyone, either working party rapporteurs or other rapporteurs. I would like, on behalf of the opposition, to present the two proposals in the vote. I would ask that we not say that these were proposals we made in the Stortinget that were voted down. It would have been nice if the government and government parties could move for once, especially when the Prime Minister has also moved, in a direction that is moving towards a faster return of asylum seekers, but preferably returning to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1422	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1425	Today, the debate is about something that should be far more focused than that: how to get criminal asylum seekers out of the country. This is in stark contrast to the Prime Minister's statement that criminal asylum seekers are going to the country. But we're going to leave it at this point. The proposal from the Left sets out, among others: to have a separate application procedure in Norway on the side of Dublin cooperation, as an alternative to Dublin treatment of asylum applications. This is a practice that is already possible, as Norway has the option of choosing to deal with asylum applications, despite the fact that the case is subject to the Dublin procedure. However, the proposal goes beyond simply adding to the establishment of an alternative application procedure. The proposal proposes that alternative practices become the norm in the examination of applications that meet the given criteria. The Christian People's Party is skeptical about introducing a whole new alternative process and believes that we have to deal with the Dublin cooperation, when we're all part of it. But, of course, we see the benefits of having the opportunity to process asylum applications in Norway. This is already being done today. In those cases where the police want a priority for processing reality and where it is possible to transport it to their home country, we should facilitate it. Instead of an alternative treatment procedure, we in the Christian People's Party want the already established treatment procedure to go faster and be more effective than it is today. It should be a goal for the government to increase the proportion of asylum seekers treated under the 48-hour rule and the three-week procedure. An effective and rapid treatment procedure is essential to ensure the credibility of the asylum institution. Asylum seekers will not be allowed to leave for many months — and in some cases for several years — before they will finally receive a reply as to whether they will remain in this country. Such a slow procedure leads to the loss of confidence in the institution of asylum. When combined with the fact that some asylum seekers are also engaged in criminal activities while waiting for the application to be finalised, it goes without saying that confidence in the procedures is completely absent. That's why the Christian People's Party, like all other parties, wants the procedures to go faster, without going at the expense of the legal certainty of the applicant, of course. More rapid treatment requires not only new routines but also more case handlers. A faster treatment target requires funds to be given to the asylum institution, in line with society’s expectations. So far, there have been many good words from the government that this is a priority. We want to see more action. It is important for people with a need for protection that trust in the institution of asylum is not undermined. Therefore, it is appropriate to respond to abuse by the asylum institution, the purpose of which is to commit crime. Then I would just like to mention another element that is often forgotten, namely those that are forced to commit crime. Trafficking in human beings is also an issue that needs to be taken into account in matters like this. The number of victims of trafficking in human beings is increasing in Norway. The rise in the problem may be a sign that it is lucrative for the backers to come to Norway and run this business. In the big picture, this moment has to somehow be involved. It is positive that Norway has now concluded readmission agreements with 26 countries and that 20 new ones are being set up. But the Christian People's Party is impatient. That is why we want the government to intensify negotiations on readmission agreements with the countries of origin of asylum seekers most frequently arrested in drug cases and other types of crime. Finally, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party supports the proposals for the minority, as indicated in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1454	This is a hall where you quickly become an old lady. I'm sure the President will agree with me that you're getting a little bit of experience. But I believe that I have been in this room for a long time, both in position and in opposition. I have also been the parliamentary leader when we have been in the position, where we would like to vote in favour of proposals promoted by others, where Document No. Eight proposals were dealt with with with with an open mind, and the government parties often voted in favour of Document No. Eight proposals, because you thought the proposals were good. To vote in principle against, to quote a workers' party representative in a local style in Westfold: it doesn't matter if the proposal is good, it doesn't matter if it's even in the Workers' Party's programme, the only thing that matters is that the Workers' Party has promoted the proposal selves. That's what determines whether you vote in favour. It's black on white. I have to say that in this case – and also in other matters – I feel that you are fundamentally opposed to things because others have suggested it. The answer is that you open the doors. I don't think you can say that to the Oslo people. The basis for our proposal is frustration that is felt in many parts of Oslo, among others. in the part I live in. When I leave here, I am almost daily stopped by people who live in the zone that this is about – immigrant papers that are frustrated by the fact that they call and report crime over and over again, but who feel that they are not taken seriously, policemen that I have seen have tried to carry out arrests, but where people stand and flirt in their eyes and know that they are going to be back again as soon as it takes to fly back from Germany, and people who feel that the problems they are experiencing are not taken seriously, that it is just petty crime, but there is a type of crime that is perceived as very threatening and offensive in those parts of the city where it is going. What the left did, was to go for a round, in addition to fighting on the city board to get guards in the area and city hosts trying to get up the area, where we've been working to get lighting in place, where we've been working to get this area lifted. But then we also sat down with the police to hear their description of everyday life. What they described was that they take people for petty crime. When they reach prison cells, they submit an application for asylum and know that it takes many months and that they can make good money while the application is being processed. That's these we want into a quick file. These applications are to be properly processed, but it can be done faster than for people who come refugees from conflict zones. Then you were busy sending out people over and over again. It's police officers who claim to have expelled people 40 times in the Schengen area. I am very much in favour of the Schengen Agreement, I am very much in favour of the Dublin Agreement. But there is nothing wrong with people who end up in a loop between Dublin and Norway not being allowed to end that loop and be sent to their country of origin. So finally, it's said that we're knocking open doors. It is said that we are promoting proposals just to be downgraded. The left proposed its own identity centre five times and was downgraded. Today the government boasts of having completed it. I certainly don't know what's most heroic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1469	I have a great deal of understanding of the initiative taken from the Left in this matter. There is no doubt that we who travel daily through parts of the city, down along Akerselva, clearly see what this is about, namely that there are people who – just as the representative Trine Skei Grande describes it – file an asylum application at the moment they are taken for drug sales or other things. In addition, we are talking about an area in the city that is of national interest in combating crime, because a large part of some types of crime is being committed in this area. We have to do something about this. My point – to replicate to Trine Skei Grande in this case – is to say that several of the things that Trine Skei Grande and Left want us to do, we already do, and we describe it in a very good way in the full reply letter that came from the Minister of Justice. The first proposal – intensify negotiations on return agreements: it is a proposal that the government does a lot but that it has to do even more. It's okay that the representative, Skei Grande, says that, but I think we on the part of the government parties and the government have shown that we've been working continuously over all the six years we've been in government, getting more return agreements. We have a number of new return agreements and cooperation with police and authorities in other countries, both inside and outside Schengen, which ensure what Trine Skei Grande wants. Nor do I feel that there is any criticism against the government, just a polite encouragement to do more. The second is a proposal for the creation of a ‘fast file’ for asylum seekers who are taken for serious crime. Yes, and we already have such a quick file. Nor do I feel that Trine Skei Grande somehow criticizes the answer that has come from the Minister of Justice at that point, but it is clear that the government parties say: Listen – to the opposition – this is something we have already grasped, because we have understood that it is a problem, and we are doing something about it. Then there's one last question, which I expect the Minister of Justice will also go into more detail, and that's the last part of the second proposal, where it says: ‘The government is asking for this ‘fast file’ to be used as an alternative to Dublin treatment when individuals are repeatedly arrested for selling drugs.’ It is clear that the starting point for us is that it is right that people should be sent back to the country to which they have a relationship within the Schengen area, in another Dublin country. The background for this is very simple: if this regulation is to work properly, we use the rules of the game that are. So, of course, it's a question of how many people there are talking about. Changing the whole code due to anecdotal information about a small number of people is not a sensible policy. If the Minister of Justice believes that there is a large number here, or Trine Skei Grande or others can show that there is a large number here, then it is clear that there is a type of proposal that it will be possible to discuss. But we basically want the matter to be dealt with by these peoples in the countries responsible for them, not for Norway to take responsibility for transport to other countries. There could be countries to which it is impossible to return. In fact, we are working, contrary to what the opposition believes to know, to ensure more return agreements, and we already have a fast-processing file – there is no need to create a new type of fast-handling file. All the measures that we are now making in concrete terms must, in sum, lead to people who have applied for asylum being in an asylum treatment queue having been refused asylum even, and waiting to be sent out, not being able to commit crime in the parts of the city that we are occupied with, namely along Akerseva and surrounding areas. There's no doubt that crime along Akerselva is doing something to us who live in the area. There's something about going by people who do drugs every day, and you see that you don't have any tools to deal with these people, that's the thing that gets tired. That's exactly why the government is taking hold of this now – to an even greater extent than before. I'm happy to be the Oslo representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1491	The President has twice listed the Council of State as the next speaker. In the meantime, first SV and then the Progress Party – very late – have signed up on the list of speakers. That's okay, but that means that the Council of State has to wait until all the parties have got 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1494	I have to say that I am a little stunned when I listen to SV's representative Heikki Holmås, who says, with reference to withdrawal agreements, that here the government has had an enormous focus all along. It's with respect to not necessarily reporting correctly. The government is to be commended for focusing on this in recent years, but it is, therefore, after the huge asylum seeker explosion that we experienced in 2008-2009, that we have got a little speed on things. But there's still a lot to be done. That is why there is an overall opposition behind these proposals. Withdrawal agreements are important, and we have to get it in place with all countries. Dublin cooperation is almost used as an introduction to proposal No. 2, which undertakes to return to the country of origin persons who repeatedly return to Norway, despite having been sent back to the country where the asylum application is to be dealt with. It is therefore fully possible, even within the Dublin II Regulation, to have such a return. It will be an instrument in addition to the other tools you have. But I have to say that even though these are proposals that are in themselves okay, it is far from enough if you want to clear up the problem of criminal asylum seekers who are repeatedly arrested, commit new crime and let go of the street again – and circle in such a way. It is therefore entirely different and much more powerful measures that are necessary, and I am thinking first and foremost of closed receptions of asylum. It is completely incomprehensible that you have not used that tool, because it had solved the whole problem. Although the Left is trying to give the impression of cleaning up criminal asylum seekers, what is on the table here is not enough. The left should go in itself, along with the government parties, because one is not willing to put in place the concrete measures that are necessary. Then there are several people who complain over a long trial period. It is clear that the processing time will be long when you have created a rigid system, where you can re-start cases on a case-by-case basis. The length of the procedure is then extended. The procedure is also long when you are going to go very far, and not only give residence to people who are protected by the Refugee Convention and the EMC, but also that you are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. Once such a comprehensive and large system has been put in place, it is clear that the processing time will then be long. For this reason, the Progress Party has always called for a reduction in the procedure by not having the opportunity to re-open the case repeatedly, and at the same time, we have always used a much more stringent asylum policy, i.e. the possibility of having a stay in Norway is not going to be comprehensive as it is today. We also see that today's result when we experience a new explosion, a new increase in the number of asylum seekers coming to the Kingdom. May is therefore a new peak month, the month when we have had the largest influx of asylum seekers to Norway outside 2009. It is a development that takes place when one is not willing to tighten up enough asylum policy. At the top of it all, the government will also accept refugees from the UN, and then it says itself that the number is growing. These proposals are good. The Progress Party supports them, but I use far stronger instruments to control this problem. And then I'm talking not only about criminal asylum seekers who abuse our hospitality, but also about getting control of immigration policy, and especially asylum policy. Then it is not possible to avoid closed reception and effective processing, without the possibility of resuming – once again – as a necessary way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1507	The next speaker is the Council of State Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1511	President! Thank you very much. It was nice to have the word. After hearing the last article, I have to say that I want to pay tribute to the proposers to be specific to what is the problem, and not to sew it together. If you really want to go into the last article by Per-Willy Amundsen, it is in many ways something of the most dangerous we can do, treating all asylum seekers as if they were the ones who committed criminal acts. It would hit a large group in a very wrong way, in my opinion, and bring the entire asylum institution's honor into discredit. But first of all, let me make it quite fundamental: both the government and the committee agree that it is important to decide as quickly as possible whether an asylum seeker should be allowed to stay in Norway or one, and that this is particularly important when he commits criminal acts while the application is being examined. Now this is being discussed in Stortinget as if nothing has been done in this area, and that all processing times are almost in the process of flying into the air. I can report the opposite. Consequently, in the light of the situation, several measures have been put in place by the non-resident administration. In 2009, a project, ‘Increased response to the open drug problem’, was launched due to the increasing openness in drug trafficking in the capital. The project is a collaboration between the UDI, the Oslo Police District and the Police Aliens Unit on measures aimed at asylum seekers involved in drug crime. The aim of cooperation is to rapidly process applications for asylum seekers made for the sale of drugs, and then to transport them out of the country. Rapid treatment applies to all actors in this chain, for many are involved here. In 2010, over 700 foreigners were arrested by the police in the intensified efforts against open drug addiction, 189 of whom were transported out the same year. Other measures with differentiated asylum procedures intend to make rapid decisions on asylum applications. The experience gained from the reinforced response to the open drug problem is that all the procedural procedures we have, both 48 hours, 3 weeks and Dublin procedure, are used to deal with asylum applications. I think it's very important that we have an individual approach to this, for example. to look at the possibilities of forced return, if you have a readmission agreement. Of course, it will be very important for the procedure you choose. As the majority of the Committee refers to in the vote, the work on readmission agreements is a task which is high on the government's agenda. It has been a prerequisite for the return policy that has been pursued over the last two years, where we have really implemented decisions. I therefore believe that there is no basis for such a proposal by the minority, that the government should intensify the negotiations on readmission agreements with the country of origin of asylum seekers most often arrested for drug or other crimes. This has already been taken into account in the measures taken by the government. The government has stepped up its work on readmission agreements, and Norway has now signed an agreement with 27 countries. 20 of these were entered into in the period 2005 to 2011. At the same time, approx. 20 new agreements, and there is a continuous assessment of the countries against which it is being worked. In this assessment, particular reference is made to the nationalities with a high rate of rejection of asylum applications, to which countries it is difficult to return, and to the frequency of criminal behaviour among asylum seekers, including drug cases. There is also ongoing contact with key countries with which we have already agreed to ensure the smooth and effective functioning of the agreements. Despite the importance of the conclusion of such agreements, I recall that all countries have an unregulated obligation under international law to take back their own citizens, regardless of concluded readmission agreements, and Norway is repatriating to a number of countries with which we do not have such agreements. I have also noted the minority’s proposal that the government ‘must make greater use of the possibility of quickly returning criminal asylum seekers to their country of origin if they quickly return from another Member State in Dublin cooperation and commit new crimes in Norway’. As the Committee refers to, we have seen cases of asylum seekers who have been returned to another European country under the Dublin Agreement coming back to Norway in a short time. It is therefore desirable that more people be returned directly to their country of origin. Although a case is subject to the Dublin procedure, Norway may choose to deal with the asylum application in substance. This means that Norway accepts responsibility for the application. In this case, the UDI must conduct an asylum interview, etc. This is done in some cases where the police want priority and substance treatment, and it is possible to transport to their home country. It must be left just behind for such a treatment to be carried out. This possibility is important for applicants who are constantly returning despite having previously been repatriated under the Dublin Regulation and for persons who have committed crime but where the conditions for detention are not met.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1540	In the evening post today, we can read that the influx of asylum to the Kingdom is once again increasing dramatically. We had a situation in 2008-2009, which I assume the Council of State has recovered in memory, where the influx of asylum increased dramatically. At that time, there were some — at least few — measures to tighten up asylum policy that had a positive impact, namely a decrease in figures. But as a result, over a few years, due to the large influx we had, we have more than doubled the costs of immigration and integration – the direct related costs. We can now expect a new situation, let alone what we experienced in 2008-2009. My question to the Council of State is this: now that asylum figures are increasing dangerously, will the Council of State take some initiatives to tighten up asylum policy so that we can regain control of inflows?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1547	I believe the premise for the question is wrong. First of all, I think we should be careful to say that a new flood of asylum seekers is coming to Norway. I believe that the evening post office does not have coverage to say that from the May figures either. Rather, on the contrary, we would have thought that much more would come to Norway even now, given the situation we have, among other things. has around the Mediterranean Sea. But, as I also say to the Evening Post today, this is an area where it's very difficult to predict what's happening. Our forecast is still at 11 000 asylum arrivals, which are significantly lower than in 2009. We will continue to intensify our policies in this area, including: – and I think that is one of the most important things, and we are going to do that – to reduce the length of proceedings. I am pleased – it was a little under-communicated in the Evening Post today, unfortunately, because it was a good news – that the asylum procedure is going down so much now, as the UDI actually indicates that we have a significant reduction in it and that there is such a sharp increase in the effectiveness of decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1554	I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice a question as to whether he finds it satisfactory that the riverbanks at Akerselva's lower run are at the point of trafficking drugs, and where, to a large extent, asylum seekers are selling. I'm not going to ask that question, because I think we didn't have any Minister of Justice who would be satisfied with it. What my reply is to call for is a certain reflection of the fact that if everyone agrees that it is unworthy for a city community to have open outlets for drugs, whether it is Plata or Akerselva, why aren't we done any more? Is it the case that the Minister of Justice considers his toolbox to be exhausted in his letter of consultation? Doesn't he see other ways to attack this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1561	My time in the Ministry of Justice has taught me that claiming that the toolbox is empty and that now all ideas are put into practice is a very bad attitude in politics, also in this area. But at the same time, I have to say that I see Oslo Police District and the Foreign Affairs Directorate, together with the Police Foreign Unit, here has shown that effective action can be taken. So you could say here it takes more of the same thing to get rid of this. We will probably never get into the situation that we get zero asylum seekers who come to Norway and trade drugs or commit criminal offences, but I believe that the experience with the massive attacks that you have had over the last few years, also followed by deployment and rapid criminal proceedings, actually helps to reduce this problem. Then the Oslo Police will always stand in the situation that you want to shift the problem a bit, but I believe that here it is possible, both with old and new measures, to contribute to reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1568	In my post, I did a little detour, and used some sentences on this that have to do with human trafficking. Because I think when you discuss a matter like this, it's important that you have more thoughts in your head at the same time. We know that among criminal asylum seekers, there is also a group of people who are forced to commit this crime. We know, among other things: in the last 10 years, between 300 and 400 children have disappeared from Norwegian reception. There are children we can't prepare for. There is great reason to believe that many of these children are exposed to human trafficking, and perhaps we will also find some of them in this so-called criminal statistics. Focusing on this issue, I wonder: What kind of action does the Minister of Justice see in order to combat both trafficking in human beings and crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1575	This is, of course, a major issue, which is a little side to what we are dealing with here today, but it is all the more important that good action is taken. With regard to the government's proposals for action to combat trafficking in human beings, I will refer to the human trafficking plan that we have well developed in 2007 and that has been renewed, and where a new human trafficking plan has arrived. It is a wide range of measures. I might particularly like to highlight the possibility, among other things. asylum seekers, but also others, who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, have, in order to have a reflection in this country – a time to be here and to help clarify their own case. It is absolutely vital that we there get hold of those who are behind it and organize it all. At the same time, the organisation of the police in this regard, especially the efforts in Oslo, but I will also mention Trondheim and Bergen, has been crucial for us to have been able to organise some of the extensive human trafficking issues at all. It has to be reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1584	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1589	I think there's consensus in this room that the criminal phenomena that we see at the open spaces around Akerselva, around Plata, but also in schoolyards, are not acceptable. We also know that it belongs to the crime scene that there are some people who, on false premises, exploit the institution of asylum, not because they have a need for protection, but because it gives them the opportunity to stay here and commit crime while they wait for the processing of applications. That is why I think this proposal from the Left is very timely, and I think we can see a certain difference in this Chamber. It seems that the government is at the end of the process of using tools and available tools in the Toolbox. I agree with the representatives who have said that it was a comprehensive response letter from the Minister of Justice. There are a lot of projects, there's a lot going on. But it's not just questions about what you put in instruments; it's also a question of the sum of this gives us the result we want. I'm reflecting a little bit on what you're actually using politics for. I believe that the fight against crime — keeping drugs away from our young people, not accepting that our big cities become drug dealers or outlets for heavy drugs — is one of the first and most important tasks of policy. So we know that Storberget, who has taken many single initiatives that have been positive, belongs to a government that does not give up its belief in politics at all. He's in a government that has ambition, for example. to interfere with the parental distribution of parental leave. He is part of a government that fights private entries in the school, and makes it quite effective. He is part of a government that also uses its political mandate to counter private health care workers, even though it is long queues. But in terms of this, which is the most important thing in a city society and in a society other than that, namely, the fight against crime, we hear that you are still standing and pushing. You don't have the tools. I could imagine hearing if the Minister of Justice is willing to assess something sharper, among other things. If there are no return agreements, there will be no impact on the aid budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1600	I would like to reply to the representative of Skei Grande: I think we fully agree with the situation description and the circumstances, among other things. at Akerselva in Oslo, but our question is about the Left's proposal will contribute something new, which is not already being done. So I want to ask the opposition a little bit more concrete. Left says: ‘In some cases, the proposers consider that it is more questionable to deal with the asylum application in Norway, rather than under the Dublin Code.’ [[...]] [[...]] Yes, but it also means the Minister of Justice, and it is also practiced when it is tricked, especially when the police have said that it is tricked, and at the same time it is possible to transport it to the home country. But that's not always when we have an appointment. So what does the Left actually mean by 'in some cases'? In order to have at all a justification for making such a proposal, the Left must obviously feel that the foreign authorities are not using this opportunity often enough. What basis does the Left have for that, and how often does this possibility have to be used to satisfy the Left definition of many enough to deserve the term ‘in some cases’? I'm not totally involved with that. In his post, Skei Grande also said it was about unpleasant petty crime along Akerselva. However, the proposal speaks of people arrested several times for selling drugs, and that is not exactly petty crime. So I'm a little confused about where you want to go. So a total opposition says that 27 agreements and 20 agreements in preparation are too few. How many agreements would have been enough for the opposition to be satisfied – 50 pst. more, twice as many, or perhaps the Party of Advancement has one number, the Christian People's Party another, right a third and left a fourth? Were the seven agreements we had before 2005, probably that time, or were they too few? So the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, says in the comments that it is doing too little to deal with the increasing crime of asylum seekers, and that return agreements are actually the main instrument. Then we transported out more than ever before in 2010, 4,615 forced returns – an increase of 38 pst. from 2009 and 98 pst. Increase if we compare with 2008. How many do you think the opposition should have been returned? Now, of course, not all of these criminals were. But if we take from the concrete situation in Oslo with the 737 affected as a result of the project Reinforced action against the open drug environment, how many had it to be in order for the opposition to be satisfied – 750, 1474, just twice as many as 737? So when they say that too little is done, they also have a sense of what would be roughly appropriate effort, and it would be interesting to hear a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1619	As the representative Lise Christoffersen reminded us, it is easy to suspect that being a proposal left only promotes to use in the election campaign in Oslo. I also believe that there is reason to react to the concept usage. Criminal asylum seekers are not what you are; crime is what you do, and the causes can be many. We know that many asylum seekers are exploited by the backers to commit crime, and we know that many are driven into crime because they have no other option. At the same time, we know that many come to Norway for one purpose – to commit criminal offences. In other words, it is a complex picture, and it is unfortunate that we are contributing to the equality between asylum seekers and crime, and I am surprised that the Left's proposers are not more aware of this side of the matter. Having said that, I still believe that we should add the goodwill, and I interpret the proposal as an expression of genuine concern about a situation that people in Oslo experience as very difficult. Like Trine Skei Grande, I live a few hundred meters from the two places in Oslo where the most obvious crime, drug sales and other crime is committed – the area around the lower Akerselva and the area on and around Oslo S. We who pass these areas every day look with great concern at what is happening. I also meet worried residents on the way to and from work, and recently I heard about a business in Fatherland that was closed after a series of armed raids. I have also spoken to the police and participated in discussions with residents and businessmen in the area; everyone is seriously concerned. It is correct that the representative Holmås says: this does something with us. The installation from Trond Helleland gave real cause for concern. He reasoned on the proposal to impose a specific place of residence on asylum seekers – the reception to which they actually belong. It seems quite ok that criminal asylum seekers travel to the city, with the consequences it has for people living here, but a problem if the same people are required to be on an asylum reception in the country. It seems necessary to remind the representative of Greece that Oslo is also a place of residence. We fully agree that people who undermine and abuse the institution of asylum and who do not have the right to protection should leave the country. It's important for a lot of reasons. The question is, how? Proposalers are entitled to have readmission agreements as an important tool, and Norway now has 27 such agreements, of which 20 have been concluded since the red-green government took over. Step Skei Grande reminded us that she too has been in position. Yes – and the Left did not deliver the withdrawal agreements that she is asking for today. It's an honest matter, but it puts her patos-filled posts and the demand for more action in a strange light.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1632	Sometimes I wonder if Per-Willy Amundsen lives with his head well down in a cake. When there are more refugees from North Africa, Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party are calling for a new wave of asylum. Yes, but then I ask Per-Willy Amundsen: is it such that Per-Willy Amundsen would have preferred to avoid the uprising that is now taking place for democracy and freedom of expression, and against dictatorship in North Africa? Or is it that he would have preferred to have seen that Muammar al-Gaddafi still had an iron grip on his population? Or does he think that it is good what happens when the population rises against a dictator, and the war that then comes in the extension of this leads to more people need protection, and more people cross the Mediterranean, because the spirit of the Progress Party in Italy, Silvio Berlusconi, no longer in its agreement with Gaddafi gets the opportunity to restrict immigration into Europe, as in the past? I would like to say that it is good that people apply for asylum and protection in Norway when they are driven away from dictatorships elsewhere where there is popular uprising, which gives them the opportunity to create a better country. But I see that the Progress Party would rather have the dictatorships of power. People who commit crime, and who cover themselves behind an asylum application, destroy all asylum seekers who use their right to apply for protection from dictatorships and wars. That's why I'm here to secure neighborhoods. I am to make sure that we take hold, as the government now does along Akerselva, among others. To ensure that people, every time they walk along Akerselva and meet two black people who stand and talk to each other, don't make friends to think that these are drug sellers. It does something to us. That's not good, and I'm happy that we're doing something about it. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1641	It was a huge commitment to the government parties now. It's a shame that the commitment didn't come a little bit before when we dealt with the matter in the committee. The Oslo Workers' Party has had its election opening. The government’s websites contain information that new rules will be put in place to deal with criminal asylum seekers and the activities they carry out before the summer, and it is clear that they will be sent out of Oslo and out to their asylum recipients. That's okay, but that's the way this is made. When Håkon Haugli, who may not know that I have grown up on the east edge – I lived on Tonsenhagen until I was nine years old, so I know Oslo a little, I also claim that this is a sort of city enemy attitude, it is completely misunderstood. What the majority does not see is that there are instruments here that the government has not implemented and that it will now start to use, namely to imprison the type of criminals and keep them in closed reception. But what this proposal is about is to send them out of the country as soon as possible. Both Lise Christoffersen and Knut Storberget showed in their speeches that this is possible within the Dublin procedure we have today. The reply letter from Storberget also states: ‘Although a case is subject to the Dublin procedure, Norway may choose to deal with the asylum application in substance. In this case, the UDI must conduct an asylum interview and take decisions. This is done in some cases’, etc. That's what he also mentioned in his post. The question is, in what cases has this been done? How often has this procedure been used? As the Great Mountains now have statistics on most of them, it could be interesting to hear how many cases the Dublin procedure has been used in this context. How many times has it happened that criminal asylum seekers who have had a travelling activity between Norway and the first country in Europe have been sent back to their country of origin as a result of police proposals, to make Acherselva a more pleasant place to walk along? Because that is what this proposal is essentially about. Now, as we sit on the committee, we've added that it's not just about drug addicts, but it's also about other crimes. I think that's an important clarification, because there are many challenges to this. I would also like to ask for a status on how these agreements are being negotiated with other countries, when Mr Storberget is about to have the floor. How many agreements can be expected to be concluded during the year? And: When do you expect the agreements with the 20 countries you are now negotiating with to be in a box?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1659	I notice that the government parties not only vote against and have great commitment, but they are throwing themselves into a big debate against the proposals to which they in the first speeches were terribly positive. I just have to make a note of today's notice in the evening post, which has been mentioned several times. We got a big influx of asylum seekers at the beginning of this government period. So the government was tightening up, and there was a decline in the number of asylum seekers, as the government then said was due to the contractions. I think that the flow of refugees and asylum seekers to a country is often influenced by whether there is war in other countries, and that is what we see now. The government has tightened up, but we still see an increase, because there is more international turbulence leading to more refugees and asylum seekers. There's probably a clear math on this. I am also concerned that the institution of asylum should not be undermined. And I'm concerned that you should not undermine the authority of police officers. It rips my heart, as a citizen of Oslo, to see statues, old, capable, handsome policemen flirt in the face of people who are involved in undermining some of the most beautiful things I know in relation to human rights, namely the right to seek asylum. That is why we have promoted this proposal. It is also an irrevocable fact that this occurred, along Akerselva, as a problem when the ban on the employment of asylum seekers in Norway was introduced while the application was being processed. That's when this drug trade arose, that's when this crime arose; it's a clear consequence of it. There is a clear link between the government’s decision to prevent asylum seekers from working and the crime that has occurred. It is quite obvious that the use of rapid files by the asylum institute is not undermining. It does not undermine the Dublin agreement, if we choose to send someone back. Therefore, we want to use rapid file more often, and return to the country of origin, when we see that it can prevent crime in our country. I'm concerned that when the police say they feel that they're just sending people in an infinite loop within Schengen, they're wasted police resources, and that's the wrong policy. We do not want a policy of arresting users for small user doses. That's the hole the criminals have found here. This does not mean that we are going to pursue a different drug policy, but it is important that we pursue an asylum and refugee policy that is different at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1679	I thought I would link some comments to a part that has been said here during the debate. Let me start with Lise Christoffersen, who asked a question, and I realized that her question also went to the Advancement Party. I'm not going to answer on behalf of the Right Party or the Christian People's Party – and at least not the Left Party – but when she asks how many deportees are enough, the answer is really very simple for the Progress Party. There must be as many people as there are people who are illegal in this country. They're going out, they're not going to be here and continue to abuse our hospitality. That should be reasonably obvious. Then comes Håkon Haugli with some outcomes. He is very concerned about semantics, I understand, and it is very important to stress that criminal asylum seekers are not something you are. You do crime. But in all other contexts, people talk about criminals. When people commit criminal acts, they're criminals. Asylum seekers must also find themselves in the process of being called. We say that about other people in this country, and it also has to be found by asylum seekers. Then you can do this as a debate on districts versus big cities. I understand that the representative Haugli wants to be an Oslo representative, but I think it is a fairly uninteresting debate. I don't want criminal asylum seekers who are long baptized, neither along Akerseva in the capital, nor out in the country – because there are hardly any police resources at all. It is therefore possible to solve both parts at the same time by using closed asylum facilities. Then you get around the whole problem. We have continued to discuss this year after year, without making the obvious thing that the Progress Party has proposed in the Storting on a number of occasions, namely limiting the possibility for asylum seekers to move freely in society. It should be a matter of course to take such measures on behalf of society. The representative of Holmås really does. I think it's a little interesting – and then we've had it smoked out – when SV's representative Holmås says it's good that people apply for asylum in Norway. Then you can almost ask the question back: how many are enough? Is there no limit to how many people want to come and seek asylum in Norway? Obviously, it's not for SV. So it's not like SV's trying to imagine the Biggest, that the Progress Party is against democratization processes in North Africa. It's a great thing, although we don't know the result of it yet. Democratisation is great, but when people flee, it is much more natural that they stay in their regional neighbourhoods and not move far, as these asylum seekers do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1700	There's something about the policy when we deal with these kinds of things, which makes the mood a little bit to take on and feel. I just want to start there, because I believe that the proposal that we are dealing with in the Chamber should be treated in a respectful way. We also need to be open to new instruments in this area – mainly because we see that the tools that we have put in are effective. That's why I want to follow up a little of what the representative Tetzschner challenged me on: Are there several types of tools that the government is working against this? I think that's a good question. We have to move on. We have to get the numbers down. We have to get the number that we can do out of the country by those who commit criminal acts up. The number is high. It was high last year. We must succeed in this year too, because we are well placed to make decisions really effective. I just want to mention three things that are important to the government. Firstly, it is to continue working on getting the proceedings in UDI and UNE down. The fact that one is now halving the procedure period gives us hope that with further action, the UDI will be able to get it down to 60 days for an asylum case, on average. The establishment of ICT measures now and the opportunity to seek rapid and rapid responses are clearly important. Structural changes in the UDI – obviously important. What you've done with chartering, so that you get a lot of people back from the same country of origin in the group, gives a very important signal. I believe it was absolutely essential that the number of asylum seekers in Norway should actually be halved. I think it also has an effect on crime. The second thing I want to mention, dealt with the Storting this morning. It was the question of compensation transfers for those who get long judges here in Norway, so that you can zone in your home country. Today, a law will be adopted to enable bilateral agreements to be concluded with Lithuania, Latvia and Romania – which are also important in this picture. Then I would like to point out again – well notified, I'm told – the proposal to be able to use additional prison shelters against this group, primarily to ensure the days prior to the broadcast, so that they don't miss the police. I think that's definitely important. So here it's done a lot, and there's a lot of action coming. The representative of Greece is asking for numbers, i.e. in how many cases the Dublin procedure has been used. I'm not afraid to take those numbers directly from here now, but I'm going to get them. In the case of return agreements, it's a risky sport to stand here and say what agreements we believe will come into port, and when they get into port. With respect for the counterparties to the agreement, I will refrain from it. But it is also the case that in a number of countries, agreements continue to work: Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Macao. Initiatives have also been taken against Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Belarus, Georgia, etc. – a wide range of countries. I hope we have the same progress in this as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1715	I would like to begin by saying that I note a greater welcome from the Council of State to discuss the problems than I have seen in the Municipal Committee, in the speeches that have come from the Committee's chairman, who found the time to point out any Italian role models for the representative of Greece, which I believe is a bit on the side of the debate. In this debate, our committee colleagues from the SV and the Workers' Party have been very concerned to assure us that the government is doing everything that is possible, and when the problems are still not solved, we must settle down on that. That's probably what belongs to a big city, is the review tone. I believe that an important condition to get something done about societal problems is to recognise them, acknowledge the scale, because then you can start a discussion about what are effective means to combat this kind of crime. There I have to say again that I feel a greater openness when I listen to the Council of State, even though it is more to go on when it comes to shortened processing time. I can mention that the so-called 48-hour procedure only applies to 2.5 pst. of the applications for asylum, and the so-called jersey procedure applies to about twice as many, i.e. 5 pst. So it's going to be 7.5 pst. by a substantial number of applications through the system of reasonable speed. It is still a great task to ensure that the processing time is reduced for the remaining 92.5 pst. Then there's this with the tools beyond what's mentioned in the ministry's letter of consultation. I would then like to point out something that has been put forward by the Right in other contexts, namely that serious criminal acts must also affect the outcome of the processing of the asylum application. Secondly, aid must also be able to be withheld from countries that do not take their own citizens back. And with the focus on formal agreements, we have to remind each other that it is an illegal rule in international law that every country has an obligation to take its own citizens back. The third and final point in this context is that we also need to think through our control regime at the borders, among other things. the availability of new technological instruments to control traffic flows with a view to tackling traffic at an experience high risk of drug introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1726	First, a little visit to the last speaker, Michael Tetzschner, who says that he experiences little attendance in the committee, and that the majority of the committee seems to believe that the government is doing everything possible. No, we haven't said that. We have said that we share the concerns of the proposers about the situation that is being described and that we are all aware of, among other things. by Akerselva, and as we also find in Hordaland, in the Nygårdsparken in Bergen, in Rogaland and in the South Trøndelag. But what we're not in favour of is adopting proposals to introduce something that's already in place; that's what's getting so funny. That's when we wonder if there's also another agenda here. And it's not like we always have the principle that we vote down all the reasonable things that have to come from the opposition. I know that the Council of State, among other things. have borrowed ear to the opposition before matters are prepared and promoted. As a fresh representative, my first case as rapporteur was a proposal from the Right, and that was a good proposal. I must admit that there was a little tension between me and the relevant Council of State at the time, but there was a very good mood in the committee when the proposal was adopted! So if there's any good, new proposals, it's clear that we're in on it. It's possible that there's something wrong with me, but I'm not able for my life to understand the difference between a 48-hour procedure and a quick file. What's the difference between that and that? Is it 24 hours, 15 hours, or what's the difference? I asked in my previous post the opposition to become a little more concrete, but I don't think I've got any good answers to that, except from the Progress Party, which gave a very predictable response, given their program of limiting immigration to Norway by all people from the Third World, whether it's refugees, asylum seekers or immigrants. That is what the programme says. In the end, I also want to make the Right Trond of Greece a little visit. He says that the majority doesn't see, that we don't fully understand what the matter is, that just four days after we gave up the position, new things came. No, it didn't. In order to take the play to the Prime Minister in a little chronological order: new foreign law, coercive measures, seizures in travel documents, reporting obligations, place of residence – it was in the previous period. In this period we updated the old law on foreigners in the pre-implementation period. And then it was announced that when the existing coercive measures can be used, the area will be expanded, and that it will happen before summer. The proposal has been at the hearing, I have the document here: one year. All the political parties have been consultative bodies, so that the political parties cannot say that the Prime Minister's proposals came as a great surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1737	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1740	I take the word to correct in a misunderstanding. Silvio Berlusconi would hardly consider Trond Helleland to be the spirit-fellow – rather Per-Willy Amundsens. And that's what I said. The second is that, in my opinion, the unreasonable claim of Michael Tetzschner in the debate that we are not responsive to the proposals. I believe that we are going in and taking seriously the proposals that have been put forward. One is a proposal that is about that we need to intensify the number of extradition agreements. Then we clearly answer that we believe we are working pretty well with this, because 20 of the 27 extradition agreements we have come during the period we have been in with the government. The second is a proposal for a speedy procedure. Michael Tetzschner points out that it's only 2.5 pst. in one line and 5 pst. in the other. Yeah, that's because we're earmarking these files for the things that have to be prioritized. I want to remind you – no, I don't get the time to remember – that it was the Right who even introduced the 48-hour treatment scheme, and we were there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1750	It was Per-Willy Amundsen's posts that made me draw again. He wondered if I was very concerned about semantics. No, I'm not very concerned with semantics. But it actually means something what kind of words we use. In the 2009 election campaign, party leader Siv Jensen said that: ‘What people see out in Oslo streets is an ever-increasing flood of criminal asylum seekers who sell drugs and rape girls for no reason’. Clearly, it does something about the image of asylum seekers, and I think it is time to remember that it is only about approx. 1 pst. by any registered crime committed by applicants for asylum. So this isn't about semantics, it's about realities and the responsibility we have to take. So it's especially that Per-Willy Amundsen in the next breath confirms that he doesn't see the difference between criminals and asylum seekers, for his cause is not to limit crime. His concern is to limit the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. Let's do it. The debate leaves a certain impression: when the opposition wants more action, they actually want more of what is already happening. And that's good, because so do we.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1764	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1767	The representative Haugli says he is not concerned with semantics, but then he comes up with an article that is mostly only about semantics. It's like people who commit criminal acts are criminals, whether you're an asylum seeker or not. That's what the Progress Party will continue to say. We don't leave it to mention things as they are, for reasons of political correctness. Criminal asylum seekers are criminal asylum seekers. Then it is absolutely right that the Progress Party will limit asylum immigration to the Kingdom. That's absolutely right. We will also make it impossible for asylum seekers to commit crime freely in Norwegian society. We do that with closed receptions. So we're actually doing two things at once -- not just one of the things, as the representative Haugli is trying to represent it. Then I register that the representative Holmås is unable to give an answer to how many asylum seekers are enough, and it seems to me that SV has no limit on how many are going to come to the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The President has registered a request from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, which has the next cases, to deal with case No. 13 before case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4490]] The president records that no one is protesting. – It has been adopted, and we are now starting the examination of case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1801	I am delighted to present, and present, a unanimous position by the Committee on Control and Constitution in this matter, with unanimous comments. A strong and independent national audit is a central element of any democracy. This is said by the Committee in the context of the National Audit Office’s contribution to the institutional development of national audits in other countries. This, of course, also applies to the national audit in our own country. I therefore think it appropriate to stress that it is the opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee that our national audit is a solid institution, which does an important, proper and good job. The national audit is the largest external control body in Storting. It is absolutely essential for the Storting that there is a continuous review of the management's ability and willingness to follow up the decisions of the Storting. And it's essential that the Biggest's signals back to the Riksrevision are taken as a consequence and seriously by the Riksrevision. The reports to the National Audit Office have been largely positive in recent years. So are they this year. All the documents and reports submitted by the National Audit Office to the Stortinget are thorough and the conclusions are well considered. In the opinion of the Committee, the annual report provides a good overview of a broad range of activities. I believe the annual report also shows that Stortinget gets the information needed to enable Stortinget to fulfil its responsibilities as a constitutional control body. This year it also gives the Riksrevision's views on its own activities. The national audit has, through user surveys, identified the views of different stakeholders on the work of the National Audit Office. In all, these studies show that the work of the National Audit Office is of great respect. It is an opinion shared by the Committee. That being said, it must also be pointed out that not everyone is equally satisfied with the way the Riksrevision presents its studies, in particular that the Riksrevision press conferences do not always give a balanced and comprehensive impression of the audit results. The Committee believes that the Riksrevision must be aware of how they present findings and results, knowing that detected maladies and errors are rarely pleasant to be presented to those who have committed them. The National Auditor's office is dependent on public trust and has it. All 84 pst. believes that the Court of Auditors has high credibility and high integrity. In view of this, the requirement for the National Audit Office’s management of external communications becomes all the more important and important. The Committee calls on the National Audit Office to take into account the findings of user studies in the further development of its communication strategy. On the other hand, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to stress that the institutions that are being criticised must take the criticism constructively and learn from it, so that weaknesses are corrected. There's a reasonable balance in it all. The Committee is very pleased that the Riksrevision has a cross-sectoral perspective, that they focus on responding to the challenges of several sectors. This interaction and information development is not least across sectors and departments. This is obvious and sounds quite simple, but it is rare. The more important it becomes when we all know that all policies are linked and affect each other. The Committee therefore makes it clear that it is necessary to continue this work and that it is possible to deal with it in a better way than is currently the case. Secondly, it is important that the eyes of the National Audit Office are focused on the major reforms and efforts undertaken in areas such as health, care, pensions and crime prevention, in order to mention something. These are areas that also affect the vast majority of us, and have a major impact on the individual's living conditions and the possibility of life development. As elected representatives, we are pleased that the National Audit Office has always focused its attention on these areas, which are also the prerequisite for a good society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1820	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox We then go back to case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1838	A Joint Committee is initially very pleased with the work of civil society. We found out what we wrote about the Annual Report, and it is very clear that the job that has been done is a pleasure to us from Stortinget's page. Therefore, the civil environment and its additions can go straight back with regard to the work that a do on behalf of the crowd. So I want to say that civil law is an important institution, for everyone can come to – those who feel unfairly treated, who feel that law and regulation does not match their expectations. This also leads to the expansion of people's democracy and the sense of justice in relation to the fact that a person is given more knowledge of what is indebted, what is indebted and what is indebted to the law and what is indebted to it. A joint committee believes that it is important for Norway and for civil society that the business being run becomes even better known in Norwegian society, through more active information. It is also the case that the large picture in relation to the period of civil law proceedings is that the duration of treatment is reduced, while the number of complaints is increasing. It's amazing when you have a red-green government that the number of complaints is going up, but we only get to realize that it might have something to do with knowing that it's a civil environment, is present among most people. As in previous messages, there are some recurrences. The Nav system is a known replay. Nav has a lot of complaints, but there are also other levels of administration that have a high level of complaints: county councillors, municipal administration, tax administration, foreign students, Foreign Affairs Directorate, etc. It turns out it's the same thing that goes on again. It is a little worrying for us in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that there are, like, no developments, but that the level of complaints, and those who complain, is basically the same every year. Now, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is dealing with one area, that is, what civil society writes, that is, the use of extensive care. Now the Minister of Justice is here, and it is one of the concerns that we are following from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, namely that one has to reduce the number of exceedances in the use of care. What a collective committee says to the government is that one has to clean this up, so that there is a reduction in the use of custody in the country. After having had a briefing from the civil environment itself, we found out, in particular, the link to issues where it turns out that civil law spent a lot of time on getting into the administrative level by reading documents that they can stick to, that the process time was much longer in some areas, and sometimes one did not get in and read this. That's what the committee's been cleaning up before. But then the committee found out that we actually want to go in and change the law and regulation in this area, and the leader of the committee is working to promote it on behalf of all the parties in the control and constitution committee. So there's going to be a case. It comes after we see that civil society can get better employment when it is a matter of openness in government. I have now consistently used the civil environment as the name of the civilian ombudsman. As in the past, the reason is that this is an archaic expression in relation to the equality policy you want to pursue. It is true that the bourgeois parties believe that the word «civilombodsmann» is an important export article. But our starting point is that we are in the long term, for example. in 2013, this needs to be amended in line with gender equality, consumer environment, etc. In the end, there is a question raised in the Committee on Source Taxes, which I expect the Chairman of the Committee will come back to, which is a point where the Committee is different. I said in the end, but I have one last case, namely a positive mention of the civil environment attached to the petroleum industry. It turned out that the information was withheld – Stortinget did not get the information we should have about the processing time. But the civil environment got this case up, and so we got another treatment of it in the Storting. It was a little funny that there was a former member of the Control and Constitutional Committee who administered this department, where this secret happened, but it's now cleared up the road. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1864	Since it is the Constitutional Committee that has issues for consideration today, I would like to congratulate all of us on the day. On 7 June 1905, the representatives in this Chamber decided to release us from Swedish King Oscar II. That is why I would like to congratulate ourselves on the day. So to the matter. Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good work on the setting, which is almost unanimous. There's a couple of points where we're separating layers. I'll get back to that a little bit. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts to ensure that the Committee has now followed up the comments we have had in the past, both with regard to the Ombudsman and the departments concerned. Then I think that in a day like this it is reasonable to give a civil ombudsman a never so small tribute. I think many underestimate the role of the civil ombudsman. Therefore, I think it is important to stress that we regard the Civil Ombudsman as our extended arm and as a sort of last chance for the citizens when the administration does not relate to the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. I still wonder about the effectiveness that actually exists in the Civil Ombudsman's premises. As it approaches about 3,000 annual complaints, and one has a reality treatment of nearly half of them, it is impressive to be able to deal with them with the framework of the civil ombudsman. I think it's important to say that too. Of course, it is not a clear objective that the number of complaints should rise, but it is an objective that citizens should be well aware of the complaints to the Civil Ombudsman, so well-known that they can actually make use of it when they need it. I believe it is still a good piece to go before we get there. Maybe that means that the civil ombudsman should be more involved in the media in specific cases where it falls naturally. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the administration works pretty well. At the same time, many people feel that contact with management is a kind of fight against windmills. There is no simple struggle, and the civil ombudsman helps to give many of these a kind of breathing room, where it is taken seriously and you get your case assessed by an objective body. It's very important. I would also like briefly to pay tribute to the new form of the Civil Ombudsman's annual report. Short is probably the right word to use, because it's gotten considerably shorter. It is transparent and easy to deal with, while at the same time dealing with individual complaints via the website. That also seems to be a good development. In 2009, the Committee noted that Norway has signed but has not ratified OPCAT. During the examination, the Committee received assurances that this would be followed up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It really hasn't happened, but there's a new promise that ratification is imminent. The Committee writes in its opinion that we are satisfied with the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on progress in ratification. But I still think it's worth noting that it can't possibly be acceptable if this issue can also be put on the agenda in a year's time as an unresolved question. I would also like to remind you that a year ago, the Stortinget decided in a similar case that one felt that the civil ombudsman should have the role of national prevention. I expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to follow it up. It is also mentioned in the preamble that the parties, on which the rapporteur was involved, consider promoting a private bill to amend the Civil Ombudsman Act § 7, so that the second paragraph is deleted. The background is to ensure the civil ombudsman's right of access without the restrictions that some consider to be imposed by today's law. We'll get to this in an appropriate and regular way. However, it is important to stress that the starting point for the Civil Ombudsman's control is that he has the right of access to the information and documents he himself considers to be important to carry out the control on behalf of Storting. On two points, the Committee's position is not unanimous. One is about the rather strange discussion that we had demonstrated through the rapporteur's speeches today, namely on the gender neutrality of the Ombudsman, or rather the lack of gender neutrality of the title. I think it's a little sad that year after year you create a big discussion about the title. Last year we also saw that some media felt that the disagreement was more important than the entire annual report as a whole. That's not good. The second disagreement is linked to the current rules on the recovery of costs in cases where the Civil Service Ombudsman recommends an action. I'm a little surprised that all parties are satisfied that the Council of State refers to today's rules and has a desire to clarify them. The whole problem with today's system is that defendants are at risk of costs. It is the risk that is decisive for whether or not he actually dares to go to court. Of course, a system in which fines may be passed on by the State is not satisfactory in such an image. The starting point for most who complain to the civil ombudsman is that they do not have the greatest confidence in the administration. To believe that citizens with this fundamental dissatisfaction dare to trust that ‘Brother State’ will be willing if the complainant loses the case in court appears to be a bit strange in our opinion. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that one must see this in a different light, and we will follow this up on a later occasion. Finally, I would like to send a small greeting to the Minister of Finance: the source tax has brought some taxpayers up in situations that are difficult to deal with, simply because the documentation required by the Tax Agency to prove that the taxes in question to the country in which they live are not recoverable. Therefore, it is a strong signal when the Committee makes provision for the evaluation of documentation requirements in order to ensure less bureaucracy and to avoid unreasonable documentation requirements. I also expect the government to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1892	First of all, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would also like to express that the annual report of the Civil Ombudsman – as he is called – has been given a very good form after the conversion that has taken place. But let me also add that we are very pleased with the work done by the Ombudsman. To take a little visit to this name debate that the case rapporteur initiated, it is a little sad that we are going to erase one of the few words we have managed to export from the Norwegian language and out into the world. We're going to get rid of that. This was just a small one passant to the debate that Langeland took up. I would like to quote a few sentences from the Annual Report to the Ombudsman. For both of us, in so far as we are dealing with this report and the reports of the National Audit Office, that is often the problem we focus on. The Ombudsman writes in his annual report: ‘In many cases, the Ombudsman feels that the complainants have expectations of the administration that cannot be met. The reason for such a tension between expectation and reality is more.’ Then you have a discussion about this. I think this might be one of the big issues -- the administration versus the population. There is no particular doubt that the requirements of the Norwegian administration are increasing every year, and I think that the disappointments will increase at the same rate, because it is actually not possible to meet all the demands that many find increasingly natural to make. This is one of the Ombudsman's concerns. Let me also quote from the Annual Report: ‘The Ombudsman’s experience in the complaints cases is that we generally have a well-functioning public administration in Norway.’ Of course, that's an improvement potential, and that's what we often spend time on. It is difficult not to understand that very many of the complaints are about Nav and part of the municipal administration. Here's still a job to do for the public enterprises. I agree with the other speakers. I just want to pick up a few points from our setting. The first mentioned committee chairman, and that is the withholding tax. Here is the point – and I think the government actually has to take on board: Norwegian administration is asking for documentation that is not traceable. Then I might think that the administration should go on its own and not ease the unfairness on the individual. So I hope you will take it with you when you go through the documentation requirements that you impose on Norwegian citizens abroad. Then I have to use a few words in one of our departments, and that's the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It is a department which the Ombudsman found necessary to provide a separate report to the Stortinget not very long ago, because from this department the civil ombudsman was refused access to a document which was essential for the Ombudsman's possible assessment of the matter he had on his desk. It brings me to the last case, which Langeland was dealing with, namely the changes in the petroleum law, where the civil ombudsman has asked for access to a letter that a citizen was denied access to. Then it's interesting to see what the Ministry of Oil and Energy corresponds to the Civil Ombudsman, and that makes me wonder if they have at all taken over some of the criticism that a total collapse came with under the special report we had for treatment not long ago. I'm quoting -- this is legit in itself: ‘Surveillance of that ESA letter could lead to a press review of the case or mention of it by others, and this was politically important for the government to prevent. This was not least important in view of the groups of parties on the Stortinget, which could easily get a false impression of the case if it was misinterpreted publicly or uncritically before agreement was reached between the Ministry and ESA on a solution.» Apart from the fact that I have some problems seeing that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is going to take into account the party groups in Stortinget, this is an excellent, but a very sad example that when you want to fly under flags of convenience in a department, you do it, and then you do it with full sail – and you break all the rules to achieve the secret you think is the best. I think that case illustrates that the civil ombudsman still has a job to do in keeping an eye on our departments in general, but perhaps one department in particular. It would not be unnatural if the response given by the ministry to the Ombudsman also provided further grounds for looking at the Ministry of Oil and Energy of the Ombudsman. With that I join the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1933	I do not have much to add to the rapporteur's posts, and after the previous posts, from the representative Syversen, I do not have much to add either. But I still want to shed light on the political process. The size goes to the perceptive step, following a report from the Ombudsman, unanimously instructing a Council of State to produce documents because the Council of State has clearly interpreted the law differently from a unanimous decision. This does not often happen in parliamentary history. It happened during this period to the Minister of Oil and Energy at the time. It should be believed that – what to say – a certain amount of attention was given to the government, at least it was noted, and it should be thought that it was noted at least in the office. But it obviously hasn't impressed anyone in the department what Stortinget thinks about the law that Stortinget is dealing with. This has led to the announcement in the adjustment that any doubt in Section 7 should be removed by changing it, and so it is done by the government parties themselves. Therefore, I would like to raise the following questions to the present State Council Storberget: What does the government do after such decisions? Is it made known to other members of the government, so that other members of the government can avoid getting into the same precarious situation? I guess that also applies to new members of the government. Now it would be thought that the current oil and energy minister had some experience from Stortinget at this point and therefore did not try to withhold documents. However, it reinforces the impression that in some areas the office functions somewhat self-employed. My question is: Does the relevant Council of State or the Prime Minister of the Government address such events in the Stortinget, and in what way is it followed up with the ministry? It's e.g. A government council on the top, which might point out to other government councils that there is a problem or a challenge here, is probably called in such a language – that is, a loss has been made here, to put it another way, and it is made aware of that further. That's basically my challenge to Storberget. I am also of the opinion that the Norwegian administration works very well. But there is probably a certain culture in the departments, which only has a limited part of the administration, in order to protect itself from transparency and pressures and inconveniences which at best are interpreted as an attempt to defend or protect a Council of States, but which in practice often have the opposite effect because it comes out anyway. Finally, I would just like to say to the discussion whether we have an ombudsman or an ombudsman. Well, this is Storting's ombudsman. I'm a little surprised at the government parties that haven't understood it, because they say in the setting: ‘These members regard ‘the Civil Ombudsman’ as an appropriate future title.’ If you look at it, you have to suggest it. It is the Ombudsman of Storting, so it is not the Ombudsman of the government. However, the government that is sitting has not changed the special title of "fylksmann", which is the government's task of possibly finding a gender-neutral title. So this is a kind of demonstration policy of powerlessness, as it actually works. Because it's the Storting that sets this title, and if the majority wants it, they're going to have -- well, now I'm going to be in the vicinity of an unparliamentary expression -- guts enough, to use that expression, to suggest what they actually mean and stand for, and they have, as said, a majority in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1953	Good enough to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1956	I want to point out, on behalf of my own department, but also the government, of course, it's that you study what the civil ombudsman comes into his affairs, very carefully. This is, of course, also a dialogue between the members of the government. When it is followed by majority decisions of the committee, and even unanimity, it is said that it has the greatest importance. I'll give you three examples of that. I believe that my experience with the Ministry of Justice over the past few years has been that the Civil Ombudsman has made a good contribution to pointing out quite a few points in the administration of justice, and where I believe that contributions have also been received that make it possible to create a change. There are three examples of this in the Annual Report. The first is the police's methodology of arrests, especially related to some individual cases, and the Obiora case in particular. I believe that what happened in the police after this, especially after the civil ombudsman was also involved in the matter, has actually contributed to a long way forward, whether there are issues of education at the Police College, or new rules, procedures and guidelines from the Police Directorate in a very important area. It also mattered when the government chose to admit Obiora's abandoned claims. The second field that I want to highlight in particular, and where, according to the civil ombudsman’s opinion today, you will follow the case further – and I am pleased – is the situation on the international foreign exchange at Trandum. In 2006 and 2007, it was quite clear that it was absolutely necessary to have a robust code that provided legal certainty for those who were there. But there was also a very obvious need for us to take action against the material situation, and the content situation, especially for children and families, and where I believe the civil ombudsman's investigations contributed well to this. We're not done with the situation on Trandum, we can see that from the setting. I note that, but I also note that both the Committee and the Civil Ombudsman also point out what has happened to positive developments in the international foreign exchange, and which are particularly important in order to safeguard the conditions of those who are there. Many of them are in a very difficult situation, of course. The last thing I want to draw out is a field that has been difficult for many years, and where there is reason to take criticism. This concerns the issue of detention in police custody. The rules for this, and the norms given, are broken, and in too many cases. This is what the setting points to – and we take it to ourselves – that it is very much because you have too little capacity to get people into custody. I want to assure the Committee that this has the whole government – but also, as I see it, an overall judicial committee in particular – a good look, in particular with regard to two instruments for dealing with the sitting times in arrest. First of all, we're getting better capacity. That's why we've developed alternative surrogates, developed alternative forms of reconciliation, so that we can get more capacity, and move people from police detention to regular prison cells in the past. The second thing I want to point out, which is new since the last time, is that if we continue to develop more capacity-building measures, we have a dialogue with the National Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office on the use of custody in general. One third of those in Norwegian prisons are now in custody, and we're looking at whether you have too low a prison threshold, and whether you can use other measures, especially against the youngest offenders, to avoid as long as we've seen in police detention. I just want to say that we notice what the committee and the civil ombudsman are saying about this, and that we're taking it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1973	This debate seems to me to have been very elated. We've learned that the committee works well together, and that the government party, when necessary, takes action that cleans up things that don't work well enough in the government. What I mean is a good illustration that there's a good dialogue and a good cooperation in the committee. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the last time he gave up on police arrests, and that he is trying to find a new grip there, so that one takes seriously the criticism that comes from civil law. That's very good. It's an old case that's a repetition, but I'm now hearing from the government that this is getting caught up in. So finally this question of sex, then -- the gender of the civil environment and that there are still some things left to clean up, whether it's for the county or other things. I'm totally in agreement with those who have taken this up. But when even – I kept saying – the ACPs have gone away from President Mao and the Progress Party has gone away from President Siv, then it is well time to be able to look at some other solutions for civil society as well, as there is a word that includes gender in it. What I said in my post, as an information to the representative Foss, was that the proposal would be welcome to come up in 2013 – it is of course the Stortingen that has to decide – because then the matter can mature with the Right and the Advance Party and the other parties for next year's notification. So maybe we'll get more on the team, so a bunch of stuff takes a few steps to get rid of gender-discriminatory titles. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e1984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2000	The secret services are subject for periods to a critical searchlight from the media and some interest groups. During such periods, it may appear that the secret services develop on their own and do not relate to the society of which they are part. This impression is definitely incorrect. Of course, in order for the secret services to function properly, they depend on the confidence of the population. The EOS selection of the EEAS shall contribute to ensuring the legitimacy of the secret services through their ongoing control of the secret services. I would like to stress that the main impression today is that the intelligence, surveillance and security services in Norway are working well according to the assumptions made by the Stortinget. The annual report of the EOS Committee confirms this impression. The EOS Committee as the Supervisory Body of the Storting reports directly to the Storting through the annual notification of the activity. The selection may also send a separate message to Stortinget. Such a specific message was not sent to the Storting in 2010. The EOS Committee carried out 28 inspections in 2010. It also receives complaints from its citizens and received 21 complaints against the EOS services in 2010. The EOS Committee has also initiated 23 cases. Although the increase in activity does not appear to be significant, the overall level of activity in the sample appears to be slightly higher in 2010 compared to 2009. This may be due to coincidences, but any sustained growth in activity will result in a long-term need to increase the level of funding. The main impression of the Annual Report is that the services operate deliberately and mainly within the framework and legislation in force. The sample has also pointed out that in cases where the sample points to errors or shortcomings, services are mainly followed up quickly. However, I would like to briefly mention some of the conditions that apply to the individual services. First of all, on the Police Security Service: I think it is worth stressing that the Committee is pleased with the reporting that the EOS Committee is providing to the Storting through the Annual Report. It is also natural that the Committee is satisfied with the level of detail of the information and considers it satisfactory. There is further reason to stress the Committee's reference to the right of access to ongoing cases by the EOS Committee. The Committee has taken the view that the EOS Committee, which carries out its verification on behalf of the majority, initially has an unconditional right of access. This right also applies to ongoing cases and actions and operations in an ongoing case. Also in 2010 several cases where PST has processed personal data contrary to Section 15 of the PST instruction have been found. The Committee considers that it is very unfortunate that the policy-adopted framework for the activities of the PST in this area is not being followed up in some cases. The sample checks carried out by the EOS Committee have resulted in 40 deletions from the work register. The EOS Committee has reported three specific cases involving the use of hidden coercive agents. I find reason to mention one of these. In that case, the PST had received a refusal from the court of appeal for the use of space listening without the service having taken place after the refusal. The use of hidden coercive measures is a serious attack on the individual citizen, and the legal barriers established by the legislator in this area must be followed closely. In this case, unwelcome room listening took place for two days pending appeal. It was not requested that the decision of the court should have suspensive effect. The Committee criticises the PST both for the illegal monitoring and that it appears that the facts of the case were not disclosed by the PST in court, nor did it make any subsidiary procedural claim that would give the decision suspensive effect, which was significant because the monitoring was ongoing. The Committee assumes that the PST will review its own procedures in order to ensure that they do so in the future. In the past, the Committee has been concerned about facilitating a mechanism for the transparency of older data. The Committee is aware that the Ministry of Justice has launched an investigation into this and is satisfied with it. As regards the audit of the National Safety Authority by the EOS Committee, the sample has some comments related to the safety clearance. I would like to say a little about three of the issues raised during the monitoring of the sample with other clearing agencies, in this case the FFI – the Swedish Defence Research Institute – the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. The first issue pointed out by the sample was that the FFI resolves cases when information is provided that may lead to refusals, rather than dealing with them in reality. It is a practice NSM has said they will follow up, which the Committee is satisfied with. The second case was a security clearance on condition that the applicant had dual citizenship. Clearance was made by the Ministry of Justice and Police. The Committee comes here with a kind of fundamental clarification and agrees that dual citizenship can constitute a ‘special case’ that allows for the provision of security clearance under conditions. However, the Committee assumes that the clearing body makes an individual assessment of all applicants for security clearance and that dual citizenship itself does not deter applicants from regular security clearance without conditions. The last matter I want to mention here concerns a clearing case that the Ministry of Defence spent two years and four months dealing with. The Ministry of Defence has not complied with Section 11(a) of the Administrative Act nor with the basic principle of sound administrative procedure. The Ministry has also failed to respond to updated guidelines from the NSM. The Committee considers this to be critical and assumes that the Department is reviewing its procedures. The FOST, formerly known as the FOST, received some attention from the Defence Security Department (FSA) during the treatment of the 2009 Annual Report by the Stortinge. However, there is no need for them to pay particular attention to this treatment, and that is very positive. The intelligence service received five complaints from individuals in 2009. In 2010, only one complaint was raised. The matter was closed without criticism. The Committee has previously been concerned with ensuring a notary of contact between the E service and the ministry when the E service has such contact with the Ministry of Justice in the matter. It now appears to have been put in place, and the Committee sees that there has been a positive development. The Committee has also noted that the E service and the PST are, on the one hand, committed to further developing cooperation between services in 2011, which is also positive. Finally, I would like to clarify the importance of effective control of the secret services. There is sometimes a challenging balance between the legitimate protection needs of society and the individual’s right to privacy. I'm glad we have secret services that are effective, but at the same time are capable of ensuring the legal certainty of the individual in a good way in all, most of them. It is essential that the secret services relate to the framework set up by policy. The annual report from the EOS Committee shows that they do so mainly. The Committee shall be unanimous in all areas of its opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2055	I think the case-speaker has done well for a co-consultant's opinion on this in a thorough and good way. I only want to expand one of the fields he's been in, close up to the EOS selection and the good construction that the EOS selection is when it comes to securing openness around a field that's closed, and democratic control over a potentially very undemocratic hub, that's the secret services. This has our unfortunate example. Now it wasn't mentioned, but in the case of the U.S. Embassy, it was TV 2 that made us aware that there was going to be illegal surveillance, and it seems that the EOS selection was not informed that the PST actually knew about this. As Helga Hernes, the leader of the EOS selection, said at the time: Ein must lead a certain degree of trust from the PST side. I think what we're into here is that if a question from the EOS selection to the PST if there's any other thing they want to tell us about that we haven't been able to ask about, there's something that I think PST has to look at, so that an actual tell it as a believer is important for the EOS selection to know. It's part of the security we're supposed to have for depositors and others when it's about how the secret services are going to operate. That's just that point: if there's anything more they want to tell us, they have to say it. That point is important for the PST to make sure that we don't get episodes like that that we had in the SDU case at the U.S. Embassy. That was the point of this little recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2066	I would also like to point out at the outset the usefulness of the fact that the EOS services have an inspection body independent of the administration to ensure that the services do not commit any injustice against the individual and, as the Committee states in its opinion, ‘make sure that the services work within the framework of law, directives and non-statutory law’. In particular, I would like to stress that it is important in the time we are living in, during the last few years, that the control mechanisms are working well. That's what I'm saying first and foremost because I think it creates legitimacy and trust in services, and it helps people understand why things are done, but also that people can actually get information from the population, and the people trust to give up information. So we are facing parliamentary control today, but I would also like to stress the constitutional control that is especially mystifying, and not least the judicial control that the PST is subject to in relation to the use of its coercive means. In this way, I will actually give tribute to the EOS Committee, which in many ways has helped to make visible and facilitate the control activities that are also carried out on a more constitutional basis in the ministry. One of the main tasks of the sample is to deal with individual requests from persons who somehow believe that the police security service has wronged them. It is therefore gratifying that we are now seeing a decrease in such enquiries, and that in 2010 only nine such enquiries were received, compared with 16 in 2009. Only one of these matters has led to criticism and then of a minor nature. In order for the PST to carry out its social mission, the services depend on both trust and legitimacy, as I said before, in the population. And that there are so few contacts to the sample, and that the sample generally does not find critical relationships to the requests, is evidence that the service has a high level of confidence in the population. Still, there are challenges left. An important instrument to ensure such trust, in addition to maintaining the service within legal frameworks, is the transparency developed by the service in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice over recent years. I have reason to believe that the service should continue to strive for such transparency limited to the framework that requires protection of the performance of the service. This applies, inter alia, to: publication of threat assessments, the information now provided to the Storting on what PST is doing, and what kind of risk you see, and not least the budgetary issues, where we have now chosen to be fully open about how much money is allocated and how many employees are employed. However, in addition to individual requests, the sample also controls extensively on its own initiative. I am constantly getting reports in the contact I have with the PST, that the PST side also perceives the business to be constructive, good and useful. I find reason to comment on two aspects: In its inspection and control activities, the Committee has criticised the PST for the existence of records which, in its opinion, appear to conflict with the instructions for the service. In particular, there is criticism of 15 registrations where the basis for the registration is contrary to Section 15 of the instruction, which deals with the information which in itself cannot form the basis for registration. It is my clear understanding that the PST today does not follow the religious or political affiliation of persons, or that they have any interest in following up such an activity. However, in order to further ensure compliance with the instructions, the guidelines for the processing of data in the PST provided by the Ministry of Justice on 12 December 2007 state that such information can only be recorded – I stress only – if there is in addition a basis for the registration of the data subject according to the tasks of the PST within the limits set by the police law and instructions of the PST. As an example, it might be advisable to record religious ties with a person who, in strong order, has expressed a desire for and encouraged to change society by violent means. And then we're really in the middle of what's really the big challenges for PST. In its 2011 threat assessment, PST points precisely to developments in extreme religious environments. The practice of the guidelines for the keeping of work records has been taught in the PST both centrally and locally, just to ensure that the basis for the registration is clarified in the text that is written in the register. I see that this can still be a challenge. I have therefore mentioned with the PST that if in the future the sample also refers to individual cases, it will also be addressed with the ministry before they are deleted, just to review the basis for the registration and thereby avoid the incorrect choice of words in the register text being the basis for the criticism. The Ministry of Justice will also focus further attention on job registrations in its oversight activities with the PST. The other thing, which I briefly take to the end, is the issue of transparency. I would like to point out here at the outset that the sample is to ensure that the service ‘works within the framework of law, directives and non-statutory law’. There are also comments on such activity from the sample to be followed by the sample. The service must relate to the transparency framework provided by political legislative or regulatory decisions and shall not be subject to any additional tasks of the sample. I would like to remind you here that in the spring of 2010, the Stortinget dealt with the Police Register Act. It was given in the proposition a thorough review of the question of transparency. There was no one who had comments relating to the right of access in the PST archives and registers. After a meeting with the committee leader and some of the members of the committee on 21 October 2010, i.e. last autumn, and at the latest by letter of 17 February 2011 to the committee, I have stated that the department will further assess transparency issues relating to whether a person can obtain a confirmation that he has not been registered in the records or records of the PST when the period of possible registration is far back in time. It was suggested here that such an assessment should be based on two assumptions: firstly, that this is unconcerned as regards the tasks of the PST are assigned, and secondly, that it will not be contrary to the provisions of the Police Register Act already adopted by the Storting unanimously. The result of this assessment will be communicated appropriately to the Stortinget as soon as it has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Case No. 13 have already been debated. [[Fotation, see page 4491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2107	It is important to facilitate long-term value creation through the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a threat to the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources in the sea. Norway and Russia cooperate on the management of cod and hake stocks in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea, and one of the main objectives of cooperation is to reduce this type of illegal fishing. The National Audit Office and the Russian Federation’s National Audit Office carried out a parallel audit of the management and control of fishing resources in the Barents Sea in 2006–2007. Despite some positive findings on the Norwegian side, the investigation showed an excessive incidence of UUU fishing, Russian overfishing of cod, Norwegian resource control weaknesses and poor penalties for infringements of the fisheries legislation. In addition, some of the Commission’s decisions were not fully implemented, and Norwegian researchers had problems implementing them in Russian waters. In view of this, both countries decided to follow-up the review during the period 2008–2010. One of the objectives of this was to find out whether the common fisheries resources had been strengthened and to what extent the problem of UUU fishing had been solved. The overall conclusion of the National Audit Office is that work has produced positive results so far. Cooperation between the Russian and Norwegian authorities on the management of the common fish stocks has improved since the last time. A concrete effect of strengthening resource control on the Norwegian side by increasing the resources of the Directorate of Fisheries and introducing the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission’s Port State Control (NEAFC) is that the UUU fishing has significantly decreased. The joint analysis by the Parties revealed no cases of illegal overfishing in 2009. This is, of course, a significant decrease, estimated at 100 000 tonnes in 2005 to zero tonnes in 2009. Poor implementation of resource control may weaken the possibility of sustainable management of fisheries resources. It is therefore not a pleasant reading to the full that the Decision of the Fisheries Commission on the exchange of information on satellite tracking for the Barents and Norwegian Seas, transhipments at sea and actions in third countries have not been implemented. This is linked to the fact that, in the future, the Russian authorities may consider this Decision to be a complement to the work of NEAFC so that countries can carry out improved control of the activity of each other’s vessels later. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, fortunately, informs us that work on the satellite tracking agreement and applications for research staff towards the Russian authorities is a priority, including at the meetings of the Fisheries Commission. That's good, and we're still focusing on this. Several stock controls against land use can also act as a preventive against overfishing. As a result of increased resources, the Directorate for Fisheries has strengthened its control work, but more thorough controls could be carried out on dry fish and salt fish facilities. Therefore, it is good that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has undertaken an extensive effort to identify yield factors in pelagic fisheries, bottom fishing and saltfish and dry fish production. The Committee considers that the number of patrol days for the Coast Guard has been reduced. This is due to the replacement of the vessel and delays in ordering new helicopters. You can't do that much with it. But their work on resource control is very important, so the committee shares the Riksrevision's expectation that the presence will increase as soon as these conditions are resolved. Identifying economic crime, environmental crime and organised crime in this sector is an explicit objective. The establishment of eco-teams, the analysis networks of the fisheries management and the new studies of the Police College in fishing crime and more appropriations for eco-trim are positive measures to achieve this. However, the Committee points out that the time taken to deal with these matters needs to be further reduced. It is a joint committee that provides common comments and a statement that the follow-up of the Riksrevision to the parallel audit by the Russian Federation on the management of fishing resources in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2126	The management of fishing resources in the Barents and Norwegian Seas is now being carried out as a cooperation between Norway and Russia in three different areas: research, regulation and resource control. The aim of this cooperation is to facilitate long-term value creation through the sustainable use of resources. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing has long been a threat to the sustainable exploitation of marine resources in the sea. For many years, therefore, the Norwegian authorities have sought to combat this type of crime. Already when I visited Murmansk on a committee tour in 1998, my colleagues and I got an insight into this problem. Our consultant general told me that this was a big problem, and that they had therefore set up their own office to combat «fishing nonsense», as he called it. It is good to see that the Russian authorities are now taking this much more seriously, as the Riksrevision report shows. The management of the common Norwegian-Russian fish stocks in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea is strengthened, the report states, and the unregistered overfishing of cod and hake has been significantly reduced. However, the report notes that there are still some challenges in resource control and sanctions and that organised fishing crime is not adequately addressed. It has also been identified that there is potential for improvement in both countries’ national administrations and that, despite important progress, cooperation continues to squeak when, for example, it: information exchange. Although the problems of unregistered, illegal and unreported fishing are not as serious today as a few years ago, a permanent solution has not been found. Both national audits therefore recommend that a broad effort be made to combat this illegal activity on both sides. The report we are examining today also shows that previously identified legislative weaknesses have been corrected, while police proceedings are still far too long, and further that cooperation between police and control agencies is not sufficient to detect and investigate organised crime and penalise actors behind this. I therefore assume that the government takes this seriously and provides both better cooperation between the agencies and the resources to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2141	With the good political climate that now exists between Norway and neighbouring Russia, not least after the conclusion and ratification of the part-line agreement, it should be possible to move forward in this area, where something is now missing. It states that the North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission has failed to achieve its wish to exchange information based on satellite tracking. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that they are working with the Russian authorities on this as a priority task. The Fisheries Commission says the same thing. My question is basically whether the Council of State has something new — for this is now relatively old information — to communicate in this area and whether there has been any progress in recent times. Question 2 to the Minister for Fisheries is more on the national level. It states that the Department is now reviewing the activities of the Fish Sales Act as a ‘control body’ — I believe that it is their control function that is meant to be said — and that ‘the Committee expects that this will result in a national clarification of the control tasks of the Sales Act’. In other words, this is something we can sort out at national level. What is the status of this work? This report has documented quite different practices in the regions, and within such a large — yes, not too large — state level, state activity, it should be possible to achieve a more similar practice. So my question is, what is the status in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2158	Let me first give tribute to the National Audit Office and all the relevant bodies for the thorough and comprehensive work done through the National Audit Office's report on the management and control of fishing resources in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. I note that the Riksrevision study shows that the management and common Norwegian-Russian fish stocks in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea have been strengthened since the previous revision in 2007. I also take note of the positive comments from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The National Audit Office’s report states that illegal overfishing has been considerably reduced in recent years. These are the results of continuous work on a number of fronts in the relevant sectors to strengthen control of the harvesting of resources in the Barents and Norwegian Seas. In the light of a agreed Norwegian-Russian method of analysis, no significant illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing has been detected in those waters in either 2009 or 2010. I must say very happy that we all have a very successful fisheries management in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. This is precisely demonstrated by the National Audit Office; that the fisheries management operates mainly in accordance with the objective of responsible resource management and appropriate control of harvesting from the sea. The work of the services concerned is good and cooperation between the various departments is described as satisfactory, with few exceptions. At the same time – as several representatives pointed out – the challenges are highlighted in further cooperation with Russia. Some tasks that need to be further worked on on the Norwegian side are also highlighted. To the question from the representative Foss, whether there is anything new about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs working with the Russian authorities: I have not received feedback that something has happened. I know there was a meeting last week in Moscow where representatives of the Ministry of Fisheries were also present. I'm not up-to-date, but of course I will. As also stated by the representative Foss, the Riksrevision highlights the variation in the control effort of the different fish sales laws and the differences between the regions of the Directorate of Fisheries in the use of penalties. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is working to strengthen administration in these areas. That review is still in progress. I have not got my status on the table, nor have I suggested how we can do it better. I will come back to that when I have received it. It is important to bear in mind that the presence at sea, fishing inspections and investigations into fishing crime require strong involvement by authorities other than the fishing side alone, inter alia. customs, tax authorities, Coast Guard and police and prosecution authorities. These are authorities which, in addition to fisheries-related tasks, are required to perform a number of other sectoral tasks. I am aware of the development potential that lies there, and will include this in the coordination of national efforts for the overall fisheries management cooperation we have with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2181	First of all, I would also like to point out that in many ways it is a happy message, much of the content of this report. But there's still a lot of cutting in the sea that it's important to have a big focus on. One is on page 7 of the setting: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that the presence of the Coast Guard at sea in carrying out inspections of fishing vessels has decreased in recent years.’ It is very important that the Norwegian Coast Guard, which is not a military vessel, but is the one responsible for controlling within the fisheries management, have the means and vessels at its disposal to carry out checks properly. It is the Coast Guard who is the actual support of the control system at sea. Therefore, it is important to ensure that not the number of sailing days goes down but that the days of sailing available to the Coast Guard are increased in the coming years. Although it now appears that we have good cooperation with the Russian authorities in the development of stocks in the Barents Sea, it is quite clear that the years that we have ahead of us will also be able to cope with significant problems and challenges. But we hope that there will also be a further positive development in cooperation in this field, all the time the agreement relating to the Barents Sea divider is signed at Akershus Castle at this time. So that's at least very positive. But there's one thing that I very much want to grasp. It is linked to the detection of vessels fishing illegally — in connection with UUU fishing. Although it is not possible to point out any of these vessels this time, it is very important to discover in such a context vessels that will also be on the Norwegian blacklist – I have mentioned this myself before with the Council of State – that the blacklist contains not only the name of the vessel and the history of the ship, but also a thorough effort to identify who is actually behind these vessels. It doesn't help to have laws on landing control, penalty options and most of the tools in place, if you can't actually get hold of the backers behind these vessels. The background to my statement is precisely that I want to ask the Council of State to ensure that the negotiations, and not least the discussions that you have later, both with the Russian authorities and with other authorities, need to be much better than the history of the ships, but also those who are behind the ships. We're doing too little today. It is a difficult job, but it must be intensified if we are to move forward in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2213	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2222	Antigua and Barbuda registered container ship ‘Godafoss’ basic support in February of this year on Kvernskjær between Asmaløy and Kirkøy in the municipality of Hyler in Østfold. The ship had approx. 800 tonnes of heavy oil on board when the base stand and two of the tanks were in midship leaks. As a result of this incident, during the same night a state action under the control of the Coast Guard was initiated. The principles contained in the pollution law are such that it is the polluter responsible for the costs of demarcation and depuration of oil spills. In view of this, reimbursement will be required for the total cost of an oil protection operation by the responsible polluter. However, according to the maritime law, responsibility can be limited and preliminary calculations of the Coastal Agency show that the amount of liability delimitation for the ‘Godafoss’ base support is approximately 430 million. kr. In the state budget, we have a separate item for special operating expenditure to cover the costs of less actions that are just linked to acute pollution, and there are almost 200 million. kr on such an item. Nevertheless, these annual budgets do not take into account the costs that had to be incurred in the case of major oil protection operations such as the one we have had on Hyler. The Minister for Fisheries is the one authorised to exceed these appropriations by up to 110 million. kr. The amount was made available to the Coastal Plant, so that it could cover the costs of action and also provide an overview of the real costs of such an action. Based on this, it now appears that the funds set aside and intended for this action are sufficient to complete the operation. The Committee has examined the matter thoroughly and fully agrees that it is important, necessary and appropriate to anticipate the costs of this type of oil pollution remediation work. It is important to follow the principle that there is a polluter responsible for the costs of both limiting and cleaning up the oil spill. The majority of the Committee also considers that rapid and rapid response time is important, that it is essential for oil protection and that it is necessary to ensure that discharges around the site are made as soon as possible. In this context, the majority of the Committee also points out that it took six hours for the first lenses to be put in place. We have recently also had other ground supports that have caused oil spills. The majority of the Committee has also recorded, before the Full City Sea outside Langesund, that it could take some time before the preparedness was put in place. The majority of the members of the Committee are concerned about the overall government's commitment to oil protection. It is important, from the Committee's point of view, to focus on the precautionary principle in environmental policy. The main effort must be made to prevent pollution. We need a device with a short response time and modern equipment that is adapted to combat acute contamination, if the accident is first out. The response time associated with oil spills can be significantly cut by means of new technologies. So if we compare it to our neighboring country, the Swedish marine rescue has invested in 25 lighters that can be dragged up to 30 knots. ‘Godafoss’ means basic support in a vulnerable area. It affects many who feed, it affects people living along the coast, and not least it has implications for animal life in the area. Therefore, it is very important that we both get equipment tested and have exercises in Norway, and that we have a sufficient level of preparedness for both quality and capacity. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2250	‘Godafoss’ should never have gone at this point in the Whaler archipelago. Once the accident was over, we must be glad that the oil pollution on land was fortunately very limited, thanks to the continuous implementation of the necessary actions both at sea and on land. Nevertheless, weather and ice conditions seemed to be a challenge to the action, and all events of this kind also need to teach us to be even better equipped to deal with upcoming events. That is why, of course, it is also natural to discuss how oil protection is working, even if the issue we are dealing with today, above all is a budgetary change issue. The size is invited to increase Chapter 1062 item 21 by 110 million. kr, to cover the costs of the action following the ‘Godafoss’ basic silling. The funds are largely used up to the purpose of having a home in kgl. Res. On 25 February 2011, where the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs was authorised to exceed the budgeted allocations in the chapter by up to 110 million. kr. There is a joint transport and communication committee that is behind the recommendation to allow 110 million. kr for the purpose. In addition, the opposition party has five proposals in conjunction with the case. The Government Party does not find it right to vote for these proposals now – this is based on the fact that the Government will consider the commitment to new preventive measures and measures to strengthen the preparedness for acute pollution further, based on its updated Environmental Risk and Emergency Analysis, which will be presented before the summer. In recent years, oil preparedness has increased substantially, with an increase of about 140 million. kr in the last three financial years. We have increased permissions to do so. upgraded equipment in the State Depots and their Coast Guard vessels are equipped with new oil protection equipment. In addition, a major effort is being made this year in the management of operations, in research and in the development of related investments, in emergency ship and course agreements and exercises. The comments of the Committees of the Right and the Christian People's Party include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Long coast are five maritime traffic centres which can be used to a greater extent than at present for remote ships in areas where this is required without the physical loading of the cargo into the ship. There is also reason to ask whether it is necessary to have four traffic centres along the Norwegian coast when air traffic is monitored by one central authority. These members are also aware that maritime traffic in Sweden is monitored by only one central authority.’ To take the last one first: I have been made aware that Sweden has two own maritime traffic centres: Södertälje on the east coast and Gothenburg on the west coast. In addition, Sweden cooperates with Denmark on Sound VTS, which monitors traffic in Øresund. Another assertion that must be incorrect is that Norwegian air traffic is being monitored by a centralist. As far as I know, we have three central points for this purpose – one in the smoke, one in the sun and one in Bodø. However, what is most alarming and – I would say – disturbing is not the comparison with monitoring of seas in Sweden and air here in Norway, but that one draws these parallels as an argument that remote unloading can replace our maritime traffic centres. The remote release has been tested in a test project in the past. In the evaluation, no distance is recommended. The cost of remote unloading is high, among other things. because in many cases the pilot must be on board anyway. I can't read these parties' comment otherwise than that they now go in so that we can wind up the state traffic centres in Horten, in Brevik, on Fedje, on White Island and perhaps the maritime traffic centre in Vadsø, and that instead we should have one traffic centre – and otherwise we can manage with remote unloading. Such a course must be a totally wrong course, and I am looking forward to having the Coastal Agency updated its environmental risk and preparedness analysis. Future measures must be based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2279	Most of Norway live along our coast, and clean seas are important for the quality of life — not least along the south coast. At the same time, the Norwegian economy is entirely dependent on maritime transport, both in terms of exports of e.g.: petroleum products and imports of consumables. In order to ensure efficient transport and a clean coast, Norway is dependent on good oil protection. Unfortunately, history has shown us that it is not possible to secure 100 pst. against accidents, but as politicians, we can do much more than what we do today. Rapid response time is essential for oil protection preparedness, and it is about getting bilges around the emission site as soon as possible. The longer the pollution gets, the more work and resources you need to use to clean up afterwards. After the ‘Godafoss’ spill, it took six hours for the first lenses to be put in place. The response time associated with oil spills can be significantly cut by means of new technologies. The Swedish maritime rescue has therefore invested in 25 speed barges that can be towed up to 30 knots. In Norway, the rescue company tested this equipment and concluded that the response time of the ‘Godafoss’ loss could have been reduced to a third using such equipment. ‘Godafoss’ had the potential for serious environmental damage and should therefore be subject to a comprehensive investigation to ensure the necessary understanding of the course of events, in order to avoid the recurrence of similar events with potential environmental damage. The oslof soil is an area of national value, with areas of national park status, many and large protected and open-air areas for about 2 million people. In 2010, it was allocated 105.9 million. kr for oil protection equipment, but only two out of 43 oil collectors were purchased. 70 million. So it was not used within the budget year, so you can wonder why no more oil collectors or other equipment were purchased when there was money for it. It is important to get top modern equipment in place as soon as possible. The foundation of ‘Godafoss’ shows that unloading on board is not a guarantee that even serious accidents can occur. Unleaded vessels shall use either stateless or fairway documents, as provided for in the Labour Code. In practice, the provision of stateless persons provides State monopoly on the provision of pilot services and, in addition, it is a special age limit for the provision of 65-year-olds. The State monopoly thus makes it impossible for cruise companies to hire their own shipowners and for older pilots to be pushed out of the labour market. In this respect, it may be appropriate to consider substituting State-authorised los e.l. claims for State-authorised los e.l. to abolish State monopolies. There is one thing that scares me very much in this matter, and that is that SV and the Central Party today believe the opposite of what they meant when they were in opposition. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005, promoted the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, a joint proposal to ensure as soon as possible a tug-boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of six hours and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal side. I would like the SV and the Center Party to actually follow up their old policy, so that we can get better oil protection along the coast of Norway. Today, the two government parties have a golden opportunity. Indeed, in today’s vote, the Progress Party is promoting the same good 2005 proposal again, and I would like the SV and the Central Party to support the proposal equally wholeheartedly today. I would like to refer to the recommendation of the Advance Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2296	This case concerns the costs of the oil protection operation following the loss of the Antigua and Barbuda-registered container ship ‘Godafoss’, which went on grounds of 17 February 2011 in Hyler in Østfold. Fortunately, it went well. The party considers that it is appropriate for the State to advance the costs of this type of cleaning work, but points out that it is important for the polluter to take responsibility for the costs associated with the restriction and cleaning of the oil beer. In recent years, the Government has increased the appropriations for oil protection in line with the Coastal Authority’s recommended investment plan of 2006. The equipment has been upgraded in state deposits. The new Coast Guard vessel has been equipped with new State oil protection equipment. A further increase in the 2011 budget of 25 million. kr shall be used to strengthen the Coastal Works and the inter-municipal samples against acute pollution, for courses and exercises, for research and development and ship emergency arrangements. It is also important to establish a common management system for dealing with all types of incidents in this area and to clarify roles and responsibilities. The coastal body is now submitting its updated environmental risk and preparedness analysis before the summer. After that, it would be perfectly natural to consider the need for new preventive measures and for more measures to be taken against acute contamination. The centre party believes that the accident risk arising from today's extensive shipping, which is also increasing, must be met with strong efforts to prevent and provide for prevention and preparedness. Norway has a long, beautiful, beautiful coast, with extensive and varied activity. It is the aim of the Centre Party to get more goods on the keel and track, and therefore the effort must be combined and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2311	I am pleased that the Transport and Communications Committee is joining the government's recommendation to increase the government budget for 2011 by 110 million. NOK to cover the cost of the operation after the foundation support of ‘Godafoss’. The Committee has several input on improved preparedness for acute contamination. I appreciate any input that can improve preparedness. Many of the proposals will be considered in the Coastal Agency's updated environmental risk and preparedness analysis, which will be delivered to me before the summer. I assume that in its analysis, the Coastal Agency makes a thorough review and assessment of both material, depot structure, location and dimensioning of state preparedness. The analysis shall be based on an assessment of the risk to incidents and environmental vulnerability. It will provide an important basis for the government’s efforts to develop preparedness further. I am also concerned that we have a state preparedness for acute contamination, which effectively prevents or limits environmental damage after incidents. In recent years, the government has greatly increased appropriations and implemented a number of measures both to reduce the risk of adverse events and to strengthen preparedness. Among other things, materials in the state depots have been replaced and upgraded and the new Coast Guard vessel has been equipped with oil protection equipment. I would like to stress that the main objective of the government is primarily to prevent and reduce the risk of accidents. We have therefore also put in place a number of measures to strengthen maritime safety. Among these are the establishment of a route system between Vardø and Røst and – from 1 June this year – off the coast of the West and South. We have established Vardø traffic centre, which is currently monitoring all tank and risk traffic along the coast and on the shipping lines. Traffic control also controls the disposal of the state tugboats in North Norway. Today, we have state preparedness in Northern Norway, in the South and in the West, as well as private actors. We will carry out a new and comprehensive assessment of the national towing gear and have therefore initiated external quality assurance in order to obtain the best possible decision-making basis for the choice of a long-term model for the overall national towing gear. The pilotage service is also an important maritime safety measure. The service is fully funded by the users. I agree with the assessment that the unloading service must be seen in the context of the development of the traffic image and the navigation aids. This has also been taken into account through the Loose Efficiency Project and the new rules on unemployment obligations introduced on 1 January 2011. During 2011, the Coastal Agency shall provide an investigation into the geographical scope of the unloading obligation. It also includes the location of boarding boards. I want to wait for this work before I decide on any new investigations. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department has also launched a review and update of the Los Law and related regulations. The aim is to ensure that the law is user-friendly and to facilitate an efficient unloading service that contributes to safe movement at sea. In the case of the ‘Godafoss’ action, it shall be evaluated by the Coastal Works and the actors involved, in line with all major State actions. The evaluation will be actively used in the development of maritime safety and preparedness for acute contamination and strengthen them where needs are identified. The full picture in relation to e.g. Therefore, response time will only occur once the action has been evaluated and the environmental impact has been monitored. I would like to end by saying that the ‘Godafoss’ action is one of the most successful state actions in Norway in terms of collecting oil. Preliminary numbers show that the entire 50 pst. the leaking oil has been discharged to the sea. New technology made it possible to look for oil even at night. This shows that we are now better equipped to deal with acute pollution than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2337	Towboat readiness along the Norwegian coast is not good enough. This is something the Progress Party believes we need to get in place as soon as possible. We want a towing boat standby along the entire coast with a normal response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours, based on the route along the coast, so that we don't redirect tugboats from other districts when accidents occur, like that. in Eastfold. With the small towing boat capacity we have, there are unsafe conditions along large parts of the coast. It is significantly easier to avert major accidents with a high level of preparedness available. The precautionary principle is important here. The proposal that we have promoted under III seems to be being voted down today. The proposal contains what I have talked about in the past. The centre party and SV supported this when they themselves were in opposition. I wonder: why won't the Council of State ensure that the towing boat gear is maximum, so that we are better rusted when the accident is first out? And why will the Council of State not present an action plan for enhanced oil protection during 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2346	As I explained in my article, the Coastal Works now operate with a lot of investigative work. Among other things, they are reviewing the coastal towboat preparedness and will make proposals to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast about how it will look in the future. For me, it is difficult and hopeless to come here today with a response time of 6 hours, 4 hours or 8 hours, I need a professional assessment at the bottom. I don't ignore the fact that there may be different demands for different places along the coast. Furthermore, the Coastal Plant is going through the entire risk picture. That's what I gradually perceive can be defined as an action plan. But again, before I can make any suggestions, I'm dependent on having professional recommendations at the bottom. I think the best political decisions are made when you have the subject as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2353	It could be fun to ask the Council of State to do this with professional feedback on response time, whether she has not read the reports that the Swedish Coast Guard has submitted in the past, on what is expected of response time in the case of towing boat preparation, and what you want in the case of towing boat preparation. I think it sounds very nice and nice to tell you that you need to strengthen preparedness, but it's not very long since the same government in connection with the state budget treatment wanted to dock one of the coastguard ships so that it shouldn't be available. Fortunately, it was averted. But the rescue company – which is a very important player as the first line service to be able to help when things happen at sea, and which can help prevent accidents from happening because they can help at an early stage – has huge problems, and they don't have the economy to maintain their preparedness. How can the Council of State feel that this helps to strengthen preparedness, when someone in the first line service drops some of the preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2363	In the case of response time and towing boat standby in the case we are discussing, i.e. ‘Godafoss’, it would not have helped if there had been a tug at the berth. ‘Godafoss’ would still have gone right on that ground. So here it wouldn't have helped. In the case of the Coast Guard and that case, what the representative was about is a improvement in the South compared to what was at some point a topic. In the case of the Rescue Company, we grant large amounts directly over my budget annually to the Rescue Company. In addition, the Kystsverket has now concluded an agreement with the Rescue Company on several points, including: agree on resource use, of course paid at hourly rates. It shall be tested, both new equipment and the rescue company as an actor as part of the overall preparedness. All of this is now defined in a four-point agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2372	I want to commend the council because she points out that it is important to have an overall maritime safety and therefore also assess the pilot service, electronic maps, and how the Coastal Stations operate. I also register and notice that the Council of State is concerned that the Swedish Coastal Agency will review and evaluate what happened around the ‘Godafoss’ accident. Why this hanging to let the belly fit the oat sack? Why not an external review of what happened? For, as the representative Rommetveit said, this ship should not go down. It had unloaded, and the unloading went off before the unloading mark, perhaps the unloading went off yet before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2377	In connection with this accident as well, there are several actors at the back of such an incident. What I was referring to is that the Coastal Works should go through the action and evaluate it. The State’s Committee on Transport examines the basic support of ‘Godafoss’ and will turn each stone in the mapping of the conditions that led to that basic support. The Disaster Commission will also provide recommendations on what can be done to avoid future similar events. I'm very happy about that. In addition, the police are investigating this accident. The police will assess the existence of criminal offences and whether action is to be taken. So here's a lot of actors going through, investigating and investigating, and I'm absolutely sure we'll get answers to all the questions that we have related to the course of events, and will of course take it with us as learning in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2384	Earlier this winter/our, I sent a written question to the Council of State where I wanted to get an illumination of the state of the state in the field of oil protection, because there is no doubt that oil protection and oil protection are important. In the reply I received from the Council of State, I was told that for 2010 it had been allocated 105 million. kr for the purchase of oil protection equipment. Nearly 71 million. The NOK was back, and you had only spent almost 35 million. kr. It was used as an excuse to say that the Coastal Plant’s efforts in relation to ‘Godafoss’, ‘Full City’, etc. were a contributing reason for not having been purchased. Only two out of 43 oil collectors were purchased. What is the state of the kingdom today? Has the money been spent on oil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2389	First, I have to clarify what I am assuming must be a misunderstanding, because “Godafoss” has never been used as a reason that the money was not used in 2010. After all, ‘Godafoss’ was grounded in winter, so to the extent that it was made as an explanation, it must be absolutely wrong. ‘Full City’ was one of the reasons for drawing experience from the ‘Full City’ accident with regard to which equipment was most appropriate. But the main explanation of why not all the money was spent that year was the major accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Then we were contacted by the US authorities if we could dispose of equipment to absorb the oil there – «Deepwater Horizon». Of course we said yes to that. That's how we pulled out of the line. We then allowed the suppliers to deliver that equipment to the United States. This isn't shelf product. It is not just going into any store and buying it; it must be ordered well in advance. The Americans got to use that equipment. But we want to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2394	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2399	The case is known initially as ‘Godafoss’ and to ensure that the clearing is financed after the loss. But it's an important dimension in this case that makes the opposition worried that you don't follow up and make sure you get on with the preparedness. So it's not more than half a year since the last disaster was there, and I've been walking around in the piggy myself and seeing what it's doing with community to see oil coming about at a pace that many bumps are falling over. And so when you see that nothing happens because you don't have equipment nearby, because you have to spend time getting hold of the equipment, it's a big frustration for the people and others around. It was not long before we had the Fedje accident – we have had several other accidents – and I know that there are often near accidents that are fortunately going well. It's thanks to the readiness we have. But that doesn't mean we have to rest on the laurels and leave the readiness we now have to be what's good enough. I think it is quite wonderful to hear some representatives from the government parties standing on this platform and saying that they are very pleased that we have been allowed to put new equipment on the coastguard boats. Yes, one boat is not more than half a year since the same government wanted to dock – the one that you now boast is part of the preparedness. Thanks to a massive pressure from many people, it turned out that you did not put that boat in the dock that you had intended to dock, it is part of the preparedness here, perhaps especially in the East. I also think it is special that when you get an offer from the Rescue Company to use the same equipment as one does in our neighboring country, which allows you to carry bilges and equipment in 30 knots, which will allow you to increase the response time considerably in relation to the situation you have today, the answer from the Council of State is that you should wait for the Coastal Agency to complete the investigation, and it will arrive before the summer. If there's an accident in a short time, you don't have time to wait for an investigation. What you need then is to get the equipment in place quickly, so you can ensure that the emission is minimised. That's what this is all about. It's about being ready, but I think it's special that you have a government that believes that preparedness in the East and some parts of the country is less important than other parts of the country, because you have a much better draft in a part of the country than you have in the rest of the country. That's what this is all about. It's about taking action. We can't keep waiting for the accidents to happen. We must ensure that the equipment is such that when the accident occurs, the damage to the environment and other parts will be minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2410	Think if one could experience the representative Hoksrud satisfied for once! But that did not happen today either. When you say nothing happens, it's completely wrong. It's happened a lot, and something's happening all the time. This is probably an area where you might never be good enough, but one gets better and better and bets more, and there's always a development going on. I see the red-green government has made a solid effort. I come from an area in the country that got a tugboat and oil protection in place in a good way a few years ago. We're very satisfied with that. We've got new traffic controllers that make one safe and prevent accidents. One has followed up the investment plans that have come from the Coastal Plant and one has increased the budgets steadily from 2008 to today. It is clear that it has a little to say what is the content, what is the fuel, and at least I perceive that today's government is working constructively and is driving to get a heavy oil ban, which will also be important if the accident is over. But as I said, we can never be 100 pst. Sure. Therefore, we need to focus on research and development of new equipment, depots, the purchase of new equipment, etc. So there's a lot going on, but of course we have great ambitions in this field, and we have ambitions and expectations for the Coastal Plant. I recently visited the Coastal Works in Arendal, and I was impressed by everything that happened. I think it's important to have that dialogue and make clear demands and have expectations for the Coastal Works even in the years that are coming, and I'm sure they'll deliver in a good way. I also believe that we should have ambitions and expectations that the Coast Guard might even more closely involve others in cooperation – it is said that the Rescue Company or Coast Guard, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2423	The representative of Hoksrud was involved in the rescue company and their contribution towards the total oil protection preparedness. He then made a claim that I would await a report. I would therefore like to read from the agreement concluded between the Rescue Company and the Coastal Plant: ‘2. The Coast Guard and the Rescue Company will review and describe the towing gear represented by the rescue skates, in order to look at possible forms of cooperation and improvement points. Deadline for implementation 31.12.2011. 3rd@item: inlistbox The coastal plant and the rescue company will test out oil protection lighters and the capacity of the rescue skates to release bilges. The test also includes equipment and interaction with the pilot boat. A first report will be completed by 15 October 2011. Own agreement for the long-term operation of two lighters, one of which is stationed at Whaler to be established. Experience from their use shall be reported. 4th@item: inlistbox In addition, an overall assessment shall be made of how the resources of the rescue company can best be used in the oil protection preparedness.’;» This work is in progress, there are deadlines set, and we will have reports on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2449	To the representative of Rommetveit it is to say that no, the matter cannot be read in such a way that we will close the stations along the coast, but it is in this that we ask the Council of State to come to Stortinget with a broad and comprehensive review of maritime safety and an action plan in relation to this. The obvious thing is that I feel that the Council of State actually meets and is positive about having a broad and comprehensive review, but that the government parties will not vote for it – i.e. a comprehensive and broad review of both tug capacity, drainage, unloading and unloading services, electronic maps, etc. This case, which is the lead, is really about a budgetary adjustment or budget increase – depending on how you read it – is being investigated by the police. The lot left ‘Godafoss’ before the lot mark, and it was not the first time. It has been charged, and it is said to have been corrected. There may also be grounds for asking whether the pilot left “Godafoss” long before the pilot’s mark, i.e. before usually leaving the ships, whether it was “Godafoss” or others. But this is the case with the police investigation. The rescue company has said that the response time could have been cut by a third, and we believe that it would have been wise to have an action plan and an enhanced oil protection preparedness, which had clarified both the financing, upgrading oil protection equipment and ships that are located as capacity in the area. It's about the tug capacity. It's about security coverage. Two county rapporteurs, both in Westfold and Eastfold, have found reason to send a joint letter, saying that the potential for serious environmental damage was present with ‘Godafoss’. It ended up in the middle of a national park. There are two million people who have this as an open-air area. We think it would have been wise to carry out an external evaluation. There are many who are affected and who have a share in cleaning up. Fortunately, the ice was thick, the conditions were right, and the damage was much less than you could fear. For many of us who travel in smaller boats along the coast, it seems peculiar that electronic maps are not so developed that you use normal GPS, and thus could have notified the captain of the bridge on the «Godafoss» from Horten: now you are approaching a cutting, Captain! Coming back with an action plan that contains both capacity and quality, where you see this whole thing in context, would have been desirable precisely in the light of this case, and in the light of things we've had in the past, because the conditions surrounding cutting and getting oil along the coast are dramatic for those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2464	Let me first clarify something that was very wrong with what I said in my first post. The maritime traffic centre is in Vardø, he's not in Vadsø. Now East-Findmark is one of the few districts in which this committee has not yet travelled, and I am not sure that this is probably not quite good with remote unloading! A little bit to the Rescue Company and these 30 knots. One can finally drag a toy into 30 buttons if it's a slick and flat color, but it also has a little bit to say what's up in these toys, and what they're used for. The fact that the Council of State has now concluded a speed date with the Rescue Company, we must take a positive view. Now you get a test out of this and see what it's good for. In most of the oars of this species away in the West, where I come from, one has finally got out both lentils and things, but they've been torn healthy, it's spilled over, and they don't work. So it's a lot that the equipment is not good enough. These readers do not have any collection equipment, as they do until now. So it's probably going to have to do some more technology development, and it's inside of these funds that's been pledged extra now this year. So I thought maybe I should be a little bit careful to characterize which parts of our coast are the most valuable. For those who live there, there are beach areas there that are the most important. Of course, there will be areas that are more vulnerable than others based on both biological deficiency, dense population and such, but I also look forward to the analysis that comes now – which is the review that Ingerd Schou referred to – that will probably also make it easier to find out where to put the most important resources. But response time and total preparedness will be very decisive in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2474	First, I am very pleased that the Council of State has now come up with better thoughts than those she came up with when she answered me a question in March, because then one had to wait for feedback from the Coastal Works in June before looking at what to do. Now at least something concrete has come up. I'm very happy about that. To the representative de Ruiter: I think it is important to boast, and I think it is good to boast, but one should boast of those who deserve to boast. In this case, I may not feel that it is necessarily the government, but definitely those who work in the field and try to do the best possible job – the Coastal Works and others, who are out in the war when it's at worst, and who do everything they can with the resources they've been given. That is what this debate is about. Do you have to make more available, or do you have to keep doing what you're doing now? I am very pleased that the Council of State is now saying at least that there have been some plans to test out, and then you're going to see what you can do. I also very much agree with the representative Rommetveit. I am very happy that the government – and not we – has not planned to shut down some traffic centres, as it can be seen as if a couple of parties are now proposing, at least you are asking for it to be settled. I don't think that's a good solution. I definitely think that the situation in Langesund in connection with the Full City Sea is an example of perhaps considering giving them greater responsibilities and not less responsibility. It is a discussion that has occurred in retrospect in relation to what was the responsibility of the Swedish Coast Guard Agency and not the responsibility for, and where the boat was or was not allowed when what happened happened. I think it's very good, and I boast as I said very much of those who do the job in the field, but I'm not as impressed by a government that would first put the Coast Guard down, and who now boasts homelessly from this pulpit that they've strengthened the coastguard boats and made sure they've got the equipment they should have had a long time ago. It should be ensured that they were even more operational, and perhaps even strengthened Coast Guard preparedness even more. To the representative Rommetveit: he says he is very concerned not to determine which part of the coast you consider to be more important than others, and I fully agree with him on that. But then at least you should have the goal of working towards a proper and equal preparedness along the whole coast. It's one of the suggestions that comes from the opposition, namely to provide a response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours. It's actually about taking everyone seriously, taking the whole coast seriously and making sure that there's no discrimination whether you live in one or the other part of the country, that you have good preparedness across the country. Of course, when an accident occurs, it is important to have equipment and the ability to prevent as well as limit damage. What you definitely experienced with Full City was that much could have been done differently, much could have been better, if you had the right equipment in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2489	I'm glad that the representative Hoksrud was actually close to boasting of the Red-Green Government and the Council of State. I thought that was nice. But I think it's interesting that in this debate, as in yesterday's debate, we also experience a party that has more money for everything – more money on the way, more money for oil protection, and who wants to put down bombs, etc. Here again there were more resources and more to everything. I would like to get an answer to what I asked yesterday, namely, what will the Progress Party actually give priority to? Or do they actually have money for absolutely everything? Then I actually agree with the representative Hoksrud that the proposal to add the Coast Guard to our area was perhaps not the wisest proposal that has come. But there were several of us who engaged us, both rapporteurs and bigots representatives, and I have to brag by the Minister of Defence who then took the signals, turned around and made a change to that proposal. I think that was good. It also shows that we have a government that listens to recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2496	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 4491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2512	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2521	The negotiations on a new reindeer management agreement for 2011/2012 did not lead to a negotiated solution. In the event of a breach of negotiations, the State shall, in accordance with the main agreement, promote, on its own basis, proposals for the measures and financial framework to be applied for the future contractual period. Negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2011/2012 were initiated on 5 January 2011. At the negotiating meeting on 17 February, the NRL chose to break negotiations with the State. In accordance with the main agreement and the final protocol attached to the negotiations, the last and revised offer made by the State on 17 February constitutes the basis for the reindeer establishment 2011/2012. The restructuring framework 2011/2012 has been proposed for 102 million. kr. The current reindeer management agreement has a budget of 101 million. kr over the cap of the State budget. 1151 For the implementation of the reindeer management agreement. The provisions of the statement relating to appropriations entered in the State budget shall follow the calendar year. This means that the financial framework and the breakdown of the reindeer management are applicable for the financial year 2012. The budget is regularly incorporated in the budget through Prop. 1 S for 2011–2012 for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is assumed that, in its examination of the proposal, the Storting authorises the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to take action under the proposed settlement and relating to appropriations in 2012. The Committee's recommendation is endorsed by all parties other than the Progress Party. Sami reindeer damage the biodiversity of Finnmark. The problem is the size of the reindeer flocks. The winter pastures throughout Finnmark are almost destroyed, most of the reinlavene is already eaten or drained by reindeer. The most severely affected areas are already deserted. The degradation of Finnmark is therefore an ecological disaster. It can take up to 50 years before the reinlavene is back. This is said by researchers, who believe that the operation has already been out of balance with nature for at least 30 to 40 years. The State Council promises the reindeer management Act of 2007 as a milestone for the management of the reindeer industry. The problem that the Council of State does not mention is that several sids and reindeer districts have systematically over time had more real reindeer than the established reindeer number. In several sidings and reindeer pastures, there is even no evidence that there is a fixed reindeer number. According to the Rein driftsverwaltung, only 25 out of 70 reindeer grazing districts have yet to be defined as reindeer figures for 2010-2011. Due to the recent focus on the reindeer industry, claims have been made that there is too much in the range of 40000 to 50000 pure compared to what is considered to be sound on the basis of grazing. Daily, the food dies clean due to hunger, and the slaughter weight goes down due to a lack of food. The situation had been significantly worse if the reindeer flocks that were left on summer pasture had been sent over to winter pasture. The party of progress has called for slaughter in order to bring this unsustainable situation to life, but has not been heard. The party notes that there is a conflict of interpretation of the law, so that many experience that the reindeer graze on areas to be protected from reindeer grazing. This was previously a problem in Finnmark, but now it's a big problem all over North Norway. Farmers get their fields destroyed while Minister of Food and Agriculture Breck sits and looks at, and owes to the administration and claims that it is not his responsibility. It is time for the Minister of Agriculture to realise that he can delegate the work to Rein driftsmandungen, but he cannot, of course, do what he does today, namely try to delegate his responsibility as Minister. Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck is responsible, and then it is time to take responsibility. We record that there are uncertainties in the interpretation of the reindeer management law versus planning and building laws in relation to reindeer management. This problem has recently escalated. Reference may be made to the conflict in the Lenvik peninsula, where hundreds of pure people have remained illegal for a long time. They have remained in an area not recognised as a reindeer grazing area, which could also have caused problems for the municipality’s water supply for about 10000 inhabitants located in the affected area. After the reindeer has been taken out again, Swedish reindeer invades you, and once again you are not able to intervene and take the Swedish reindeer who have illegally crossed the border and are staying at illegal places. Once again, you don't show action. I believe it is an unfortunate signal to give that the administration rewards the industries that break the law instead of trying to prevent the conflicts that are created throughout North Norway. With this, I would like to promote the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2551	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2554	The case-speaker has done the right thing and put forward proposals that the proposal for a redundancy settlement should not be approved. All the other parties in the Committee are at the root of the recommendation to adopt the declaration with a framework of 102 million. kr. The majority of the Committee noted that the NRL's basis for the breach of the negotiations was linked to the price effects of the liquidation of the regulatory warehouse. After the Workers' Party's view, it is understandable that reindeer owners who have not in any way contributed to the stock building that has taken place in Finnmark are concerned about the price development of reindeer meat in general. But the control warehouse has to go down, and it's hard to imagine that one can succeed with it without the price being part of the setup. It is a challenge for the reindeer industry that the problems in parts of Finnmark, as well as the cross-border purity of Swedish reindeer in parts of Troms, get all the focus. Here are major problems that should not be swept under the carpet, but it also overshadows that very many in the reindeer run well, and ecologically and economically resilient. There are really many who are drifting in a rightful and healthy way. They also get hurt because everything becomes so problem-focused in the media. I want to mention three things that will improve the situation. Firstly, the work on operating rules must be completed during this year. The Purity Board has been given its decision on the upper reintal from the Ministry because the reintal was taken too high. Then there are new decisions that the department has to evaluate. This suggests that the state council is now running hard on to bring down the reindeer where necessary. That's good. This is taking responsibility. The legal state of the West Finland wide is not clarified – i.e. the legal basis of the individual reindeer’s right to graze has not been established. These have been different attempts to clarify for many years. I assume that this problem will be addressed in the coming agricultural message. For my part, I also believe that the right to land needs to be incorporated here. Then the loss of pure to predators is a significant problem that cannot be ignored, cork in Finnmark or in parts of Middle Norway. I'm assuming that, as a big community, we can't accept that this situation will continue. These losses have led to a particularly worrying situation in the southern Sami regions. I believe that the Department will follow up on the proposals made by the Working Group, under the leadership of the county council of Nord-Trøndelag. Here it is, as I have understood, developed trust and a common understanding of what needs to be done, and I hope that the ministry will focus on that. I recommend with this Greatness to join the recommendation made by all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2571	Measured against the daily problems faced by the reindeer industry, the negotiations and debate on reindeer management are the basis for a parentheses to be calculated. Over the last year, we have debated a number of issues facing the industry. In the Ministry’s case proposal, hare labs deal with these problems — perhaps natural enough, as they are now waiting for the much-discussed notification of agriculture. The right has a number of times called for the reindeer to need a separate notification. Unfortunately, we did not get through to that. Developments in the market situation, land conflicts and general industrial policy framework conditions for industry mean that this need has not diminished over the years. The industry's reputation has got a real break this winter. Neither images of dead animals nor the high loss rates due to starvation and large predatory populations are suitable for decorating the situation. So it's serious. In addition, there may be other dark clouds in the horizon. The energy situation, with the construction of new grids and plans for large wind turbines, is a future challenge facing industry. The government's mineral wager is different. Everything will present major challenges for the reindustry industry — at the top of internal structural needs, the heavy industry should have as a cultural supporter and the overall development of society with centralisation. This means that the industry deserves better political treatment than the government so far has been able to provide. The hasty reorganisation of the Rein driftsmanagement is another example of not having both hands on the steering wheel in this case. In addition, when it is noted that the agricultural notification does not come with ossifications, there is no reason in the Right's view to be too satisfied, but also to be a little concerned on behalf of the industry. The right looks forward to processing the agricultural message. Policies should be outlined to facilitate the treatment of reindeer operators as business operators. Then you have the chance to save one of the most exciting foods we have. In this case, the right co-rapporteur is two proposals – one to address the problems of loss compensation due to predatory animals, the other to change the reindeer management so that it follows the calendar year. Our reason for participating in those proposals is to be able to create clearer conditions in terms of reindeer management. The second reason is that it will increase and improve the reputation of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2588	The sewerage industry is an important industry. It creates income and life base, takes care of long cultural traditions and exploits important natural resources. In the treatment of the 2011 State budget, emphasis was placed on facilitating an industry of good value creation and productive production. The emphasis was also placed on creating a stable and long-term framework for the reindeer industry. The reindeer management laws of 2007 have given the industry a greater responsibility for the resource management of reindeer pastures. In the extension of the work on the laws, it is important to continue and complete the work on the rules of use in order to establish a stable framework for the industry. However, in addition to what is provided by the law on reindeer management – what is involved in the rules of use – it is precisely the reindeer management negotiations that are the key element in providing stable framework conditions for the reindeer industry. This year there was a breach of the negotiations on the reindeer management agreement. Thus, the country’s last and revised offer is the basis for the reindeer settlement for 2011/2012. The resolution of the regulatory warehouse has been a central point in the negotiations, and was perhaps the reason why it was not possible to reach an agreement with the Norwegian Reinbrutssamers Landsförbund this year. The proposal for a reindeer management decision emphasises the need to stimulate market-right production and value creation and to increase sales. It will provide the basis for better economic viability in the industry. Studies show that there is a high interest in reindeer meat in the market. Therefore, we look forward to the fact that if we are able to develop the potential in the market, there is a basis for building an industry that develops the market, which creates product development that provides a good price level, and which creates long-term and viable economic conditions for industry. In that perspective, and in the light of the fact that we are going to have a bigger discussion about the reindeer industry in connection with the warning message about agricultural and food policy, we are looking forward to this being a viable industry, which really takes care of the objectives that have been set for it to be cultural, ecological and economically viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2612	The size is currently addressing the reindeer business plan 2011/2012, which has an economic framework of 102 million. kr. The State's bids represent an increase of 7 million. kr of the current agreement with effect for the financial year 2011 to contribute to the financing of adopted exceptional slaughter and regulatory measures. Funding for district measures that are prevented from using winter pastures in Sweden due to the non-operational nature of the new reindeer grazing convention will also be resolved through the 2011/2012 reindeer management agreement. On 17 February, there was a breach of the negotiations between the parties and, in accordance with the main agreement and attached to the final protocol of the negotiations, the last and revised offer by the State underpinning the reindeer establishment 2011/2012. The proposal for reindeer management focuses on measures that can help improve the implementation of the slaughter through the season and increase sales. In addition, emphasis is placed on stimulating market production and value creation. The proposal is aimed in particular at reindeer operators whose main activity is reindeer activity and involves the continuation and further development of production-dependent subsidies. Purification can make good use of resources in marginal land and mountain areas and is a central bearer of Sami culture. The centre party is therefore concerned that the measures of the reindeer management policy must be organised in such a way as to ensure, develop and strengthen the industry in the geographical areas in which it operates. Furthermore, it is very important that reindeer operations are carried out in a sustainable manner. There is a decrease in the performance targets from 2008 to 2009 and there are very wide variations in remuneration measured per annual work and equity. Ensuring, developing and strengthening the reindeer industry presents challenging challenges both for industry and government. A common perception of reality and interaction between the actors is therefore a crucial prerequisite. In this context, I would like to point out that there are still major challenges related to the relationship between gravitational pressures and resource base in several districts of Finnmark. In the southern Sami area, there are major problems both in securing areas for the normal type of operation and with the very large loss caused by predatory game. Purity is in a unique situation where the potential for demand is far greater than the potential for production. According to a study done by MatPrat, 83 pst says. by Norwegian families with children that their children like to be served reindeer meat and that their whole 44 pst. the population responds that they want to eat more reindeer meat than they do today. This, combined with the fact that reindeer meat is an arctic delicacy and some of the most exclusive meat Norway has to offer, suggests that reindeer farming should have good opportunities to achieve the objectives of the industry set by the Storting. Clean-up policies will be part of the announced policy on agriculture and food, and the communication will include, inter alia, the following: consider systems for clarifying unexplained rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2638	Purgatory policy is a balance between animal health, nutrition and economic sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outback areas, and is a central bearer of Sami culture. The Christian People's Party believes that the measures of reindeer management policy must be designed in such a way that the industry becomes sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. If the industry is to be made ecologically and economically sustainable, there are several challenges that need to be solved. These challenges vary between grazing areas, but the use of pasture is a major challenge for all. This applies either to excessive gravitational pressures, such as in Finnland, or to ensuring sufficient areas for carrying out the activity. The Christian People's Party believes that if the industry is to be economically and ecologically sustainable, a few people have to deal with the large loss rates due to predatory game. Not least, there is a need to get an overview of the real losses. It's just 6 pst. of the losses documented and poor documentation weakens the confidence in the industry. Against this background, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, has proposed a review of the compensation scheme for the loss of pure, including increased requirements for documentation. The poor record of losses indicates poor internal control. It is therefore necessary to improve internal controls in the industry. Improved internal control will reduce the level of losses and improve quality at all stages of the value chain. Good internal control is necessary to improve the quality and stability of supplies. In order to succeed in this work, the various actors in the value chain have to take responsibility for both increasing the slaughtering, quality and placing on the market of reindeer meat. Improved quality is essential for resolving the difficult market situation. In order to increase the demand for reindeer meat, generic marketing is necessary in the same way as for many other agricultural products. The picture drawn in the proposition shows that there is a need for a thorough review of both trends and measures to improve the situation in the industry. Therefore, it is positive that the government says that the notified communication on agricultural and food policy will address some of the issues facing this industry. However, it is not enough to discuss the major challenges facing the reindeer industry. It is now 19 years since the Stortinget dealt with its own big business report on reindeer operations. Therefore, the opposition parties pointed out the need for a new reindeer management notification in the context of the treatment of the Reindeer Operation Act in May 2007. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive a majority, but the need for a new communication has not diminished. Since the previous message the legal status has changed, including with an increased focus on customary law and new reindeer law. Conversion of grant and compensation schemes has also changed the economic environment of the industry. Less pasture, large predatory losses and climate change have also reinforced negative developments. The major changes require a renewed and comprehensive review of the framework conditions for reindeer management. A new big message is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, a necessary basis for improving the framework conditions in an industry with many challenges. Better conditions for industry will also increase optimism and new recruitment to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2657	The Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund chose to break negotiations on the reindeer management agreement 2011/2012. The size of the case must therefore be examined on the basis of the Ministry's assessments and proposals in Prop. 84 S for 2010-2011, as also provided for in the main agreement. The clean-up establishment 2011/2012 is based on the revised offer made by the State and the Ministry, in its proposal for reindeer management, places emphasis on measures that can help improve the implementation of the slaughter through the season and increase sales. In addition, the Ministry attaches great importance to stimulating market production and value creation. In this way, the proposal is particularly targeted at reindeer operators whose main activity is reindeer activity. The reindeer now show great willingness to increase their slaughtering output. That's good. At the same time, the current market situation limits the reception of pure by slaughterhouses. The Ministry therefore prioritises measures which may help to restore more normal market conditions and, on that basis, ensure the slaughter and placing on the market of reindeer meat. The situation in this year’s reindeer management agreement negotiations is also taking place in an image of how many demanding challenges have been faced. This is not least the case with regard to the resource situation in parts of Finnmark. The important work on the preparation of rules of use is now in the final phase. In some cases, the Ministry has had to suspend the decision of the Board of Directors on the approval of the reindeer figures. This has been necessary because it has not been sufficiently likely that the decisions would provide ecologically sustainable purity. The Purity Board then re-examined these matters and adopted new decisions. The new decisions are now under assessment in the Ministry. These really unusual steps show that I take the resource situation very seriously in reindeer management and want to make sure that there is also a basis by decision and follow-up action to ensure a reindeer operation that is ecologically sustainable. At the beginning of the 2010 slaughter season, the market situation for reindeer meat was very difficult. In order to facilitate without delay the slaughter of reindeer owners, the Contracting Parties agreed to establish a temporary regulatory regime until 31 December 2010. The parties agreed with Nortura SA as the operator of the measure. In December, the Contracting Parties chose to extend the agreement with Nortura until 31 March. The disagreement which led to a breach during the reindeer management negotiations of the year has been particularly linked to the closure of this stock. The NRL proposed that the regulation warehouse be offered to one operator and that there be indications that the meat should be included in blended products in order to avoid affecting the normal movement of reindeer meat and the price of reindeer. Following the assessment by the State, winding-up in accordance with the NRL’s proposal would neither comply with the competition rules nor sufficiently contribute to ensuring a balance in the re-meat market in the coming harvest. In order to reduce the negative impact on private operators who have re-meat in stock and to facilitate the fastest possible establishment of normal market conditions, the Ministry’s proposal involves a step-by-step winding-up of the regulatory stock. In the event of a step-by-step winding-up of open and competitively neutral conditions, the prices of reindeer meat will be more manageable and will give important signals of a possible price picture in the forthcoming slaughter season, thereby giving operators the opportunity to adapt. We must note that there was a fundamental disagreement between the NRL and the State on these issues, although a breach in and on itself was a regrettable outcome of the negotiations. However, in the further work, I would like to work closely with the NRL and market actors to find the best possible solutions, both in the short and long term. During the last year, the size has largely paid attention to the reindeer management policy, which has also been mentioned by several representatives in the House today. I have answered a number of questions about different issues. I find this interest in reindeer management policy very positive. However, in the light of the answers given and debates that have taken place, I think it is necessary to comment on some of the minority comments on the vote. The members of the Committee from the Party of Progress and the Right are negative to the protection of imports as a basis for price formation. Since winter 2003, import quotas have not been fixed for reindeer meat at reduced rates of duty. I would like to stress that the main consequence of this measure is that it has contributed significantly to increased withdrawals of Norwegian-produced reindeer. As the increase in output is mainly linked to Finnmark, this measure has been very important in order to avoid a further increase in purity. Furthermore, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party raise questions relating to the publication by Rein driftsadministration of compensation figures for the loss of pure and non-internal control in Rein driftsverwaltung. I have to point out that the Reinhrift Management is neither responsible for nor able to guarantee the quality of the annual compensation figures for the loss of clean. The current compensation scheme is designed, calculated and reported by the environmental protection authorities on the basis of the loss rate of reindeer management. These members are also critical to what they consider to be the lack of individualisation of tamrein. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under the Law on Repurchase Management, all domestic trains must bear the individual and registered mark of the owner. All reindeer marks shall be approved by the authorities before they are put into service. In public counts of pure, the censuses are performed by a curious count corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2689	It pays about 60 million each year. kr for loss of domestic animals taken from predators. You also have a system to document only 6 pst. Of the losses that have been made – the rest you will get. These are things that people most react to, which wonder how we manage the taxpayers' money in this way. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think this is right, and is the Council of State comfortable paying 60 million. kr for loss of tamrein, when you can only prove that 6 pst. are taken by predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2696	The issue raised by the representative, Treldal, is a central challenge. I agree that it is a challenge that we need to be able to solve in the future. Therefore, compensation schemes are now also being worked on a more principled basis. What is the problem, it must be said, is that it is very difficult to document the loss of, for example, the loss. Reincalves in the summer. It's very difficult, because they disappear after a very short time, and in that way you have problems documenting it. We need to find better arrangements with regard to the issues raised by the representative, Mr Treldal. I am concerned that there should be a compensation scheme that is real and proper and that provides compensation for the real losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2703	The Council of State was in its intervention in so far as the rules of use for reindeer management were concerned, which shall also determine the reindeer number. For many of the practitioners, this has been a painful and quite long process. For many years it has taken. It has been through district managers and district managers, and the clean-up management has been about this. Figures have been established by the Purity Management Board. Then it turns out that the department is not satisfied. You have to go in and cancel out many of these processes. After all, there must be some inadequacy of the 2007 Act on reindeer management, since there has been such a far-reaching process in such a central area as the establishment of sustainable reindeer. Does the State Council have any thoughts on how, if necessary, the reindeer management law needs to be amended in order for us to have a better process in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2708	First of all, we need to implement the reindeer management code for rules of use. That's what's the challenge, that reindeer itself has to take a real hold of the challenge of setting a clean figure that's sound. This has been a major challenge, both mentally and mentally, among some actors. And there has also been a problem with some of the challenges to grazing, as has been mentioned in this room earlier today. I am concerned that we are going to implement the legal clarifications of the rules of use, in order to ensure, in this way, a clean figure that is better adapted to the resource base and ecological sustainability. It's the only way to make sure that we get economic sustainability in the industry, that we get a balance between grazing grounds and reindeer numbers. Here it has not been good enough to work previously from the reindeer itself, and here too the administration has been too poor, and now we are doing a very extensive job to ensure that the reindeer figures are determined, with new rules of use, during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2713	The Council of State noted that the minority in the Committee pointed out that there was a lack of labelling for tamrein. Has the Council of State considered how these labelling provisions can be followed up more effectively? Because it is quite obvious that marking tamrein will be a simple but very effective measure to achieve more transparent conditions in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2718	Yes, it is easy to say that there are clear rules for marking tamrein. The Act of Purification requires that all domestic trains are marked with the individual and registered, marked by the individual owner. And it also has to be approved by the reintroduction authorities before it is put into service. That's the rule, and it's to be followed by the industry. In the public count of pure, the count is performed by a curious counting corps. The brand systems we have have have a long tradition, a long, long background, but in our opinion they are good enough if they are implemented and followed up by the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2725	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2730	In the context of this debate, several issues have been raised, and the most important issue to address is the loss of animals, i.e. the loss of domestic waste. I have to say, as a public authority, that it is very worrying that we, as a elected body, and as an administrator of taxpayers' money here, almost give a mandate – that is, through this agreement – to pay out large amounts of losses of domestic animals, and where we do not know if they have been taken from predators. They say it's hard to document, it's hard to find these cadavers because they're disappearing, the Council of State has just said from this pulpit. In the summer they disappear so fast that we can't find them! This is not sustainable. Because if you can't do a better job documenting these losses, we can't actually pay out these sums either. And how is it possible that this industry cannot be financially profitable? I would like to read from the comments of the position, where it is written that ‘the majority indicate that reindeer operations are in a unique situation, where the potential for demand is far greater than the potential for production’. So it's remarkable that you have to spend 102 million. kr in support measures for an industry in a ‘unique position’. There are probably other industries that are in a ‘unique position’ and that would have liked more of the taxpayers’ money. This isn't hanging out in the jump. And then you might want to look at the system a little bit. So, if you have a product that many people want, yes, you just can't produce enough – and then you can't make money on it! Could it be – I just ask the question – that the system that this government has now followed since they joined has some weaknesses? We can't stick our head in the sand and just let these things go on. It is now necessary to ensure that action is taken. Better evidence must be required before taxpayers’ money is used to pay for lost animals that are not actually known to have been taken from predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2739	I would just like to stress that there are major challenges related to different problems of reindeer management, which the debate here in the Chamber has also underlined, and which we have also seen through various issues and various debates in the past. However, it is absolutely essential that we now allow the reindeer management law to work, that we have rules of use in place, and that we allow the Reindeer management board to determine the reindeer figures during this year. Then we'll get a reindeer that will be the starting point for the adaptation in the industry, and that will create a better ecological and economic basis for the industry. Of course, working in the market is important. But let me stress that since 2002–03, it has been established that the industry itself has the primary responsibility for market work, which was also underlined by the Ministry in its hearing. And the industry has to deal with this properly. Therefore, resources are also used over this reindeer establishment for market work, which has been a difficult starting point for the negotiations because, of course, price needs to be affected. What is interesting, however, is that here comes the Progress Party, which usually talks about the free play of forces and the free play of the market, and says that now the state needs to implement new measures, now the state needs to set up mechanisms, now the state needs to take care of decommissioning, now the state needs to ensure that this industry becomes sustainable. It is quite interesting to read and hear such statements, because it shows that the Progress Party is also not faithful to its basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2748	The Council of State may not have read any of the observations or heard any of my observations or the statements made by the representative of the Treldal. For the matter is just about the system – we ask questions about whether the system prevents this industry from developing properly. This does not mean that the State will intervene again and do market work. It is a matter of the fact that the system that you have today through the reindeer agreement is helping to support today's system, which allows you to burn in with the meat and not get to sell it. It's today's system that allows us to read time and time again in the media about conflicts between those who are reindeer and farm animals in Finnmark. Yes, we still have a look-up in the media about land conflicts, grazing conflicts. And now we're finally going to have an agreement with Sweden on the use of pasture. What is the point of the Progress Party here is that we have to look at the underlying. One of the reasons why we don't move on is that you know you can't sell the meat. When we can't solve the problems, the state comes with its resources through the reindeer management agreement. It's the system we have to make sure that we change in order for the industry to develop. Now the challenge has been given to the Council of State. Will we then be able to get our own reindeer management message that addresses all these issues? Will the State Council address issues related to the very low requirement for evidence of loss to predatory game? The Council of State has not said anything about whether or not he will do this. The councils will only preserve the already established, and then he hopes that the industry itself will be able to do so. It should just be missing that the industry is able to clean up itself. But then we can't have this guarantee in return, that if you can't do it, the Council of State will come and pay anyway. That's what's weak about what's available today, and it's the changes that the Council of State has to take if we're going to go a step further – as the Council of State actually says we have to. We have to be better at documenting, we have to make a market work the best we can. It's not done the way you do it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2758	I didn't intend to take the floor either, but when I heard the interpretation of the comments by the State Council, I couldn't stop. It was a special experience. Breck talks about the industry itself. Yeah, the industry itself doesn't have to do anything, and the reason is pretty straightforward, as the representative Nesvik says, for every time the industry doesn't get there, the state comes and dumps money. Last year the problem started because too much reindeer meat was put in stock. Then funds were converted into the reindeer farm and added between 8 million. SEK and 9 million. kr to try to get the meat out. It was the taxpayers' money that was to be spent on it. You did because you couldn't sell. At the same time, the Council of State says that this is self-employed, so the industry itself must be responsible. But you still don't do anything. When you're into rules and systems, it's the system that's wrong. And that's the system of the Council of State Breck that makes us there. It's just to take an example: loss of pure. If you want to replace everything that is reported as a result of loss of purity, 240 pure is taken per day – 240 pure is taken by predators every day. I think that's weird. We see animal programs from Africa where we see lions take antelopes, and they film crocodiles that take monkeys. There's always someone filming this. I've got 30 years behind me hunting in North Norway, and I've never seen predators clean. I have lots of friends who have never seen it. I've seen hunting people ripen, but I've never seen predators clean. It's weird, in this electronic world, where everyone has cameras that can film on the mobile. It's strange that no one can film this, when it happens 240 times a day! Then even the people of the Central Party could be in Finnmark to take pictures of this. This doesn't matter, something's wrong. The Progress Party is taking hold of the system. The defense of the system is State Council Breck, who won't go in and do anything about it. This is exactly the same when you make a promise that you can't operate a reindeer on the Lenvik peninsula, you can't operate a reindeer there. Then the reindeer industry breaks the law. Then you don't do anything, you two your hands and you say you can't do anything. They have driven in by car, but when they are to be taken out again, the council says that due to animal welfare we cannot take them out. It was perfectly okay to drive them in by car, and then you can also be willing to drive them out by car. It's the system there's something wrong with, and the only one that can do anything about the system is the Progress Party. The party of progress is the only party that takes this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2773	Let me just say that the predatory game problem is not a topic in the reindeer agreement negotiations. The river management is not responsible for the compensation schemes; it is another department. It is also a fact that proposals for new compensation rules and schemes have been examined. Let's just say that. So to the system. Yes, we have a system that ensures reindeer management, because it is important to Norway. We have a political system that says we're going to negotiate framework conditions, as we've been doing for many years, and that didn't result in an agreement this year. It is an important agreement because it ensures the reindeer operation in Finnmark and the reindeer operation in Troms, Nordland and Trøndelag and a little south of that area. It is clear that here it is important that we work with the industry to find good solutions, which I have stressed in my work as a government council. Then you attack the system and even the denominator that we're going to have an agreement with the Swedes. Yes, in fact, we've had an agreement with Sweden since 1752 or 1754 – I'm not really sure...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2782	1751.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2785	1751, thank you, President! From a perspective, it is important to stress that reindeer management is one of the industries that have had a comprehensive regulated legal system around them constantly because one has seen that it is a challenge to run this industry. So you almost have to go back to 1751, President, to see if you're going to change the system. I am committed to finding good solutions for the cross-border reindeer operation, which respects the rights of Swedish operators in Norway, while respecting the rights of Norwegian operators in Sweden. But of course I do not accept, as I have also stressed many times in the past, that illegal reindeer operations are being carried out in Norway or Sweden. The reindeer on the Lenvik peninsula, which the representative of Träldal mentions several times, and which is run by some Swedish communities, is illegal. It shall be stopped and there shall be a decision to expel. But it's actually like most people are concerned with animal welfare, and it's a system, a law, that takes care of animal welfare. I don't think the Progress Party has voted against that law. It is said that account should be taken of the fact that these animals, which have been transported illegally, cannot be transported out until it is animal welfare-friendly. So the system we have to have, the system is important both for animal welfare, for economics, and for us to regulate the activity we have in this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2792	I want to return to the agreement from 1751 – I was not aware that it was 1751, but I know that now, at least. It's like they say, we have an agreement with Sweden. But why is Norway always going to give? When it comes to the loss of predators, one would like to apologize for the fact that it has nothing to do with the reindeer industry, but it has, and we need to be able to see the industry as a whole and not owe it to other ministers. It shows disclaimer. The government is the government and must be responsible for what it does. In the case of payments to Swedish reindeers, money is actually paid to Swedish reindeer farmers who have lost tamrein in Norway. So Rein, who comes from Sweden to Norway, we pay compensation for in Norway. Similarly, they do not do in Sweden. I asked the Swedish Minister about it in the Nordic Council. The answer was clearly: 1. We're not naive. 2nd@item: inlistbox We don't have oil money. That's the answer I got from there. Even if you have a polemics here that you have an agreement with Sweden, why is it just one-way? Why do we not have the same policies as Sweden? Well, we might have more money. So back to animal welfare. When you first drive into an area that is illegal, by means of a car – to an island you almost have to carry the clean by car, if they don't have to swim over – and then they move around by car to get into another area, I think it's strange that you're not going any longer on time to at least demand that the area they're in is fenced in. Then you can feed them in a small area instead of leaving them on a whole peninsula and put the water resources of a whole community of 10,000 people to stake. Here it is a little problematic, I think, in connection with the fact that the Food Authority is under the control of the Minister for Agriculture. We have talked earlier about this problem of food supervision being so close to the Minister of Agriculture. Here you don't do anything. At least it works like that for most people. The feedback we get from Lenvik is at least that we have a paralysed state council that instructs the Food Authority not to do anything. I won't say that, I don't have any faith in it, I think Breck is doing the best he can with this. But that's the people's opinion, and when the people have that opinion, we have problems in this room. We're people's representatives, they're supposed to have faith in what we're saying, and then we should do something more about the problems we have, big problems that escalate downwards. It started in Finnmark, then came to Troms, now it's inside Northernland. Farmers get their land damaged. There's a lot of crisis situations. Then you have to act, not just talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2805	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2808	Just one case: you do not have to go back to 1751, because the undersigned is talking about, is in fact the re-entry of the re-entry convention, which was sent out at the summer 2010 hearing, which has not yet been put into place with an agreement, and which is also referred to in the proposal itself, which reads as follows: ‘Since the new Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing convention is not yet operational, the situation remains such that a lack of agreement prevents Norwegian reindeer grazing districts from using winter pastures in Sweden.’ You don't have to go back to 1751, you can relate to both 2011, and also, it looks like, 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2818	I'm not going to make a long discussion about going back to 1751 or the last calamities regarding negotiations between Norway and Sweden on the reindeer Convention. The point is that the negotiations to which the representative Nesvik refers, which have taken place and which are the result of a hearing, have a background to the original agreement of 1751. That's what's the starting point. But we don't have a new convention in place. What I'm concerned about is that we're going to get in place, depending on both countries being arranged in their own way, and that we're following the extensive work that's been done – the consultation system and the meeting system that's been in this regard. Finally, in the case of Swedish reindeer on the peninsula of Lenvik, as the representative of Tåldal mentioned and mentioned: there is a serious situation, because there the Swedish reindeers have deliberately entered and broken a Norwegian legislation. Let me stress that I see that very seriously. I am committed to ensuring that this is followed up in accordance with Norwegian laws and regulations. They've been notified of expulsion. It is also the case that Norwegian laws and regulations require us to take animal welfare considerations, and when it is possible to take animal welfare considerations, these purity levels are to be removed. Whether it's by car or otherwise, it gets time to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2827	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2843	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2852	The codex of 1751, it's actually called, but it was the last thing. The background to the proposal on the sale of state forest properties is probably some form of impatience by the proposers in the context of the government's promise to ensure that these properties are sold in a roundabout manner. In the context of the increase in the capital of State Forest in the past, the majority of the Committee also expressed satisfaction at the fact that such a sale would take place. That's all right. So I'm going to add that in the Right's view, this is according to the governance principles we want to apply to state businesses, a government matter. Then we want this signal to come from the owners through the General Assembly, not through the Storting. There is enough background for the whole committee, with the exception of the proposers, to propose to annex the proposal to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2861	I think the proposal we are now going to debate is quite similar to that put forward by the Progress Party when the Stortinget dealt with the matter of Statskog's purchase of Borregaard Forest. It must be understood that the lot wishes to have a greater sale than that on which it was then founded, namely to facilitate a wide range of arrears of scattered forest parcels from which it owns, in order to improve the efficiency of forestry and to strengthen the economy of the enterprise. State forest is the country's largest landowner, and there is a very long tradition for the scientifically sound management of these forest properties in combination with the provision of recreational activities, hunting and fishing, energy extraction, etc. I have no faith that the division of the company that the Progress Party outlines in its comments will in any way be appropriate in terms of developing a sustainable and robust strategy for the company. So just a few comments to the Right and the Advance Party's common desire to reduce state ownership, combined with the assumption that private forest management produces better results than the public. My opinion is that Stateskog's competence in forestry is not inferior to private operation. It's the same afortic principles that underlie. I also remember that the traditional Borregaard group has for several years abandoned its operations to a company they owned together with Statskog. I have also not registered that the Right has previously launched suggestions to sell Statskog to private people. Here they break with a long tradition where state forest has been a central player in forest property management across the country. Often, these properties are considered as model uses in terms of active operation, forest management and forest management. The deforestation of national forests has been, and often is, crucial to keeping operational supplies to the processing industry at a stable level. I assume that it is not unknown that the activity in the farmland use can be significantly cyclically affected, and that it also serves as a bank for investment needs in agriculture. Nothing negative to say about that function, but the logging can be very variable and unstable in that way. I therefore believe that we need a robust and strong State forest, which, in addition to optimal forestry and ensuring stable forest production, can also safeguard public interests by facilitating different forms of outdoor life, property development and energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2874	Document 8:119 S for 2010–2011 has its origin in Statskog SF's purchase of forest properties for Borregaard Skoger, AS Børresen and Borregaard Vafos AS. This purchase was the largest forest purchase in recent times. Overall, the area was 1 067 000 pieces, which is enormous. Thus, Statskog sits as the owner of approx. one fifth of all property in Norway. The actual purchase was much discussed as the price after many people saw it became very high, a total of 1725 billion. kr. Many claimed that it was only Statskog that could be this much, but with 5,771,500 m3 of forest this was a good price. Now it turns out that to reach the yield you have in Statskog, it has to be cut twice as much as Borregaard did as he owns. This can be seen especially in parts of Hedmark where it has been cut very much in winter and in spring. What made this purchase particularly positive for many, was that there were indications that State Forest would resell parts of its property. It was claimed that approx. 600 000 targets, i.e. approx. 60 pst. of what was purchased was to be sold. This is good. Of the total property of Stadskog, approx. 100 is less than 5000, and many are too rational, for several reasons, to enable State Forest to operate them economically soundly. It was also said that such resale of the properties should provide opportunities for active local ownership. The revenue from the sale shall be used for the amortisation of the State loan, which amounts to 475 million. kr. In the case of State Forest, you have three main objectives. One is to increase own and others' value creation in relation to the property and to create and secure profitable jobs through the rational and commercial exploitation of skills, capital and land. As regards ownership of forests, the Progress Party believes that this is a task that private people can do just as well, or better, than the state. The Progress Party would like to reorganise Statskog SF into two departments, or what we would have to call them. The first shall have administrative responsibility for the use of nature by the general public. This could be hunting, fishing, outdoors, which could increase the quality of life for most people. General traffic is, of course, in every field today, regardless of ownership. In the second section, the Progress Party wants the business part of the business to lie, with opportunities for the purchase and sale of properties – both to rationalise and to make Statskog more economical as long as Statskog exists. But most importantly, private businesses and individuals are given the opportunity to buy, possibly make changes, so that they can strengthen their property and their ability to make the property more efficient. The party also sees great opportunities for a different type of forest-related industry to develop positively through a sale. These may be different outing industries, including for example: in the field of travel and tourism. Norway has a very large number of skilled and creative people who, with the right opportunities, can provide both themselves and other gainful work. Back to this specific matter and the proposal. No deadlines were set or any specific reference was made to the volume of land to be offered for sale in this context. This is what the Progress Party wants, and I am promoting our proposal. The party that is progressing wants the sale to start by 1 August 2011 but sees that no one else agrees with this, and that they also want to attach the proposal to the protocol. I register that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in a news release of 3 June 2011, i.e. as late as last Friday, its schedules came into effect. It states that the aim is to place forest parcels for sale in 2011 but that sales in the South, in the West, in the North and in Troms will be made by 2014, while sales in the East and in the Middle Norway will be made by 2017. This is too long, and you have to wonder why. Selling forest is one of the easiest things to sell. According to the experiences I have, as well as conversations with professionals, they wonder about the long time perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2900	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2903	I Prop. 11 S for 2010-2011 on capital increase and state loans to State Forest SF, the Government agreed to a future rounding of the properties of State Forest SF and a majority of the Committee agreed to this in its comments. The assets are operated, managed and developed by Statskog SF alone or in cooperation with others. State Forest SF has its activities within four core areas: property, energy, forest and outdoor life, and State Forest SF is an important contributor to the value creation of the regions where State Forest has its properties. For the treatment of Prop. 11 The majority of the Economic and Social Committee gave its assent to the assessments on the basis of which it was based. Inner. 153 S for 2010–2011. The majority of the Committee was satisfied that there was a large arrears in the sale of scattered forest parcels from which the company already owns. The majority further asked the government to assess, within the same framework, the arrondance of scattered forest parcels also in the Nordic countries and in Troms. It was assumed that in the further dialogue with the company, the government assumed that such resale of properties would allow for active local ownership and that the revenues from the roundabout sale would be used to repay the State loan of NOK 475 million. The centre party assumes that this roundabout sale will be carried out in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget in the past on this matter, and we fully support it during the majority's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2916	In December 2010, Statskog SF acquired Borregaard Skoger AS, Borregaard Vafos AS and Børresen AS from Orkla ASA and Borregaard NEA AS. So large forest areas are rarely laid out for sale. This was therefore an historic chance. The purchase was made after Stortinget had been informed of the matter through Prop. 11 S for 2010-2011 and given its connection to the purchase and capital increase and government loan for the purpose. I'm referring to Innst. 153 S for 2010–2011 and the decision of the Stortinget on 15 December 2010. As I have previously informed Stortinget, Statskog SF's investment is based on a commercial basis. The rationale for the purchase was that it would strengthen the position of State Forest SF as the leading forest owner in Norway, while providing opportunities for the organisation of hunting, fishing, outdoor life and property and energy development. The purchase involves a better arrears of the forest land of the enterprise, as Statskog SF already has properties adjacent to or in close proximity to the purchased properties. At the same time, the Board of Directors concluded that buying-in allows the sale of scattered forest properties that the company already owns in South and Middle Norway, which will further improve the efficiency of forest management in the company. The sale represents a unique opportunity to strengthen Statskog as the landowner. A comprehensive arrears of scattered forest land already owned by the enterprise will be positive in several ways. The aim of the arrondissement sale is to improve the efficiency of forest management in the state forest, and thus improve the state forest economy. At the same time, roundabout sales could strengthen the nutrient base of private forest owners, municipalities and general public. The sale of roundabouts can contribute to the dynamics of the property market. Just as Orkla's sale was a unique opportunity for Statskog SF, the planned roundabout sale is a unique opportunity for other forest owners in the country. I Prop. 11 S for 2010–2011 also pointed out that a roundabout sale could also trigger woodland change areas, which could facilitate forest protection processes on a private basis. In its treatment of Prop. 11 The majority of the Economic and Social Committee endorsed the assessments made. The majority of the Committee was satisfied that there was a large arrears in the sale of scattered forest parcels from which the company already owns. The majority further asked the government to assess, within the same framework, the arrondance of scattered forest parcels also in Northern and Troms. It was assumed that in the further dialogue with the company the government assumed that such resale of properties would allow for active local ownership and that the revenues from the roundabout sale would be used to repay the State loan of 475 million. kr. In my opinion, the representative’s proposal that ‘The government begs the government through the state ownership of Statskog SF to instruct the company to start selling forest and other real estate property by arrears Stateskog SF owns, by 1 August 2011’, is to be confused like the minority proposal of the Committee’s members from the Progress Party promoted in the examination of Prop. 11 S. The minority proposal of the members of the Progress Party was as follows: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to instruct the company immediately to plan a larger arrears sale of the forest properties and other real estate State forest SF owns today.» I interpret both of these proposals, which are also mentioned here in the Chamber earlier today, to the point where a minority in the nutrition committee wants a greater sale of Statskog SF, which also includes real estate other than the arrondance sale, which is justified on improving the efficiency of forestry and strengthening the company's economy. On the basis of the Storting's decision on the position of the majority of the business committee, I have asked Statskog SF to proceed with the plans for a comprehensive arronding sale, including the sale of scattered parcels in Nordland and Troms. The extraordinary business meeting on 27 May laid down criteria and arrangements for the roundabout sale in line with the decision of the Storting. State forest SF shall sell scattered forest properties from which it owns and the sale shall result in a better arrears for State forest SF and lead to a more efficient operation. The properties shall be sold through bidding rounds and Statskog SF shall seek to obtain the highest possible price for the properties. The proceeds from the sale shall be used for the amortisation of the State loan of 475 million. kr. In the case of sales in areas covered by the Samerrechtscommittee II, it shall be made clear to the purchaser that any existing rights to land/forest ownership are not affected by the sale and that State forest cannot take responsibility for any disadvantages that might result for the buyer in the future. Forest plots are to be sold in all parts of the country State Forest SF has properties, and I expect the first forest plots will be put out for sale already until the autumn. Finally, I would like to mention that the Directorate for Nature Management is to be made aware of the forest properties to be sold before they are put out for sale, in order to use them for any protection or makeshift related to the protection of private forest properties, provided – and I stress it – that this does not adversely affect the sales process or revenue of State Forest in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2938	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2941	In the press release that was sent out as late as the last Friday – a few days before this debate – it said when the different sales were to be finished. The long treatment period and the long sales period you spend on this greatly amazes me. Mine, and many others, experience is that forest is one of the easiest things to sell. People are waiting to buy forest to further develop and add it to the property they already own. My simple question is therefore: why is it so much work to sell something that is so easy to sell as a forest in this case, and why do you divide Norway into several parts? From this purchase was approved here in Stortinget and until the sale is completed, i.e. by 2017, more than six years have passed with the processing time and the sales time. It sounds like a very long time. It must be unnecessary. It has to be done much more rationally than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2948	The board of directors of Stateskog manages the decision taken by the general meeting on the sale, which is to implement the sale in accordance with the guidelines and criteria laid down. With regard to the time the sale takes, it is based on a draft by the board of State Forest. Of course, the government of Statskog then has to consider whether a comprehensive sale, which we are talking about here, will lead to the impact of price, the ability to charge prices in a market. There are important things that underpin the deadlines here. Then it is also such that it is a comprehensive – a large – sale that is to be carried out. It takes time for Statskog's administration and government to put it in place. I am concerned that it will be done properly, thoroughly, correctly and in line with the principles adopted by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2956	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am not impressed with, for being completely honest. I still don't understand why it's going to be used so long to dispose of such a simple thing, although it's a vast forest property. So people are in line, creatively skilled forest owners are in line to buy this property, and the price is then. What I also want to say a few words about, is deforestation, how to drive this forest forward, and it's quite clear here. But what I've seen in ours is that Statskog SF has been hogging over twice as much as Borregaard normally uses to do. One has had quite a lot of logging, and my specific question to the Council of State is: How will Statskog cut, cut further? Do you want to mowing in the forest that is not to be sold, or do you want to mowing in the forest that is to be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2965	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot explain in detail how State Forest is going to go further. It's the board of directors of the company that decides the progress here. With regard to the question of the extent of the crop, which has also been addressed in previous questions by the representative of Bredvold, the background is that a survey shows that the basis for the maximum in the forests purchased is much better than that previously stated. I then referred to Professor Emeritus Kåre Hobbelstad at UMB. He has shown that the volume of the Borregaard forests will rise rapidly in the near future due to the extensive forest planting carried out in the 1950s and 1960s. Hobbelstad was part of the group that worked with the company's valuation. The extraction that is now taking place is in line with the plans that were then laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2972	The Council of State has repeated what he has written to the Committee, in its statement here on the historical possibility of the purchase, that it has been purchased on a commercial basis, and on the unique opportunity this has been to strengthen Statskog, which he has also written before, when the matter itself was up. My question is this: Is the Council of State aware of something in the development of the near-half of the year that has gone after the purchase, which means that he sees something different about what he has described here, that it was commercially good, that it was a historic chance, and that there was a unique opportunity for Statskog? Does he see anything different about what he owns today than what he did six months ago? Is there something that has resulted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2979	It is important that Statskog implement its plans. The plans were put in place when the purchase was made, and were based on thorough investigations from various consulting environments that have good care for both forest management and the commercial opportunities that lie here. There is no new information for me to change the points of view of this case and the arguments for the case before. I am concerned that the Government of Statskog will implement the plans that have been made. This means that State Forest is becoming more commercial and is more active as a forest owner in the future. I hope and believe that it will be a good development for State Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2986	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e2991	I would like to begin by reading from the letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee: ‘The majority of the committee was satisfied that it had been put up to a large arrears in the sale of scattered forest parcels from which the company already owns. The majority further asked the government to assess, within the same framework, the arrondance of scattered cadastral parcels also in Nordland and Troms. It was assumed that, in the further dialogue with the company, the government assumed that such resale of properties provided for the possibility of active local ownership, and that the revenues from the roundabout sale were used to repay the State loan of 475 million. crowns.’» Now I want to focus on a question that I asked the Council of State, question no. 992, answered March 18. I ask you the following: ‘Will the Council of State ask State Forest SF to start a roundabout sale as soon as possible so that actors such as the Breidskaret in Grane Kommune can obtain a reason for State Forest SF so that the development of industrial activities in the municipality can continue?’ So I'll quote a little bit from the answer from the Council of State: ‘In the case of the representative, Tåldal’s question about the start of the arronding sale will give actors such as the Breidskaret in Grane municipality the opportunity to purchase land from Statskog SF, in my view, this is a different issue. If the question by the representative Treldal is related to the plans of the Nordlandsporten development company for an alpine and tourist centre on the Land of Stadskog SF in the municipality of Grane, this is a process that has been in progress for several years, regardless of the plans for the sale of scattered forest parcels. The Nordic sport development company currently has an option agreement with the State Forest SF on the development of Alpine and Tourist Centres. I am familiar with the fact that the Nordlandsport development company believes the process has taken a very long time and is not satisfied that Stateskog SF wants to wait [[...]] I guess it's pretty black that they're not satisfied. There were many actors here who wanted to start an Alpine plant. People who know how difficult it is to start alpine facilities know that before you arrive at the land, you don't get the investors to go in. You had everything done. You had investors with a lot of money coming in to invest, but you didn't get to buy the land from Statskog SF. It ended up with the actors standing by and going in, unfortunately pulling out. They are now going into Finland with the money, probably. Then we've lost jobs. We have probably lost a lot of development in the districts – all of this. My question to the Council of State: First you say you're for it, and next time you say you see that there's another problem. What is the ‘other issue’ that State Forest does not want to sell to this private actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3015	I'm a little provoked by the response of the Council of State. Both in his post and in reply to replies to replies, he refers to the board of State Forest SF. It is well and good that we have a board – and it is certainly capable – but as it says about the company Statskog: ‘Statskog SF is organised as a State enterprise under the State Enterprise Act of 30 August 1991. [[lawdata.no]] The form of State enterprise is chosen because State Forest is to be operated in accordance with corporate economic principles, but is at the same time required to address other social and sectoral policy objectives on behalf of owners. The State is 100% owner of Statskog SF.’ And then we have the following: ‘The ownership is exercised by the Minister for Agriculture and Food.’ In other words, the Council of State is responsible for how State Forest is to be operated. He can also go in and be involved in managing Statskog's operations, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3034	I want to start by saying that I am incredibly happy that we have a society and a system that makes that when large forest properties are put into play through sales, we have the opportunity to secure it in a sensible framework like Statskog, when Borregaard and Orkla chose to sell their forest. The Progress Party is trying to emerge in this debate and through the proposal here as impatient with what the majority has said about arrondance sales in this respect. It will be with respect to report the completely incorrect entry into the case. When we let Statskog have a capital increase to buy Orkla's forest, it was with a significant clarification that it was an extensive arrondering sale of scattered forest parcels. What the Progress Party will and very clearly demonstrates in this matter is that they essentially want to sell all the forest that State Forest owns. All the forest wants the Progress Party to sell, and they're all alone about it in this hall. The proposal they are promoting is quite similar to what they are dealing with in a matter that we are going to deal with until Thursday, about state ownership. The party of progress is on its own. They want to privatize Statskog, and they want to ensure that the valuable property and the valuable administration Statskog does on behalf of all of us, is left to the private, only to safeguard the interests of the private. Something else is going to be a little bit wrong. They are also trying to cover up the reality in this debate. It is pure privatisation of all State Forest property The Progress Party actually proposes in this case, and that is not what the majority has said before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3043	When I listen to the representative Aasland, I hear he has a different reality of what has been said. If the representative Aasland listened to my post: I had an example of self-employed people, and where actors would enter and start a business, start a business, and not get it because State Forest will not sell. They shall sit on the ground they have and shall not allow for local development. It's no wonder that the districts are being moved away, it's no wonder that it's going down and home, among other things. with agriculture and everything, when we have a government of which the representative of Aasland and the Minister of Agriculture are part, who will stop all developments. The only development in their portfolio is the state, the state, the state. It is possible that you might need to move to another country – where the state has even more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3050	I had not at all intended to take the floor in this matter, but I am unable to humiliate myself. The person who really has a completely wrong angle in this matter is the representative Torgeira Tåldal. When he draws up a project in the municipality of Grane as an example, it is completely wrong. Former municipal politician Torgeir Tåldal knows very well that such things do not first come to the Council of State. If you do not bring the municipality with you in such cases, there will be no problem. That is what is happening in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3057	Only some attempts to respond to posts that have come after my first post: With regard to the representative Bredvold referred from the press release that ownership is exercised by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, I would just like to stress what I said in my first post, that at an extraordinary business meeting on 27 May, criteria and arrangements were laid down for the arrondering sale in line with the decision of the Storting, and then I went through the various criteria. I'm not repeating these right now. Of course, the Council of State exercises its ownership under fundamental and important rules of good governance in ownership regulation, and I am concerned that we should deal properly with the board. So it was the representative of Torgeir Tjäldal, who mentions one thing in the Breidskaret in the municipality of Grane. Let me first underline that the forest owners being laid out should be able to bid for all actors. State forest should, as I said, sell to the maximum bidder in order to obtain the maximum income from the sale. But it's the concession authorities that will decide whether the buyer gets a concession and decide on the price. With regard to the specific matter related to the Breidskaret in Grane, I would like to refer to my previous answer to the question from the representative of Torgeir Tjäldal. In the municipality of Grane, there is a situation where State Forest SF and a local contractor have not agreed on the terms of the sale or rental of the area. It has something to do with land-use planning and land-use planning. This is a case within the company's, i.e. Statskog's, business activities that I do not want to go into. It is the responsibility of the board to ensure that this is followed up. This case, as the representative Treldal mentions, has no connection with the forthcoming roundabout sale, where Statskog SF, based on its own assessments, will put out scattered forest plots for sale, with the aim of improving the efficiency of operations in Northern Ireland as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3069	The representative, Mr Träldal, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3072	First to Lillian Hansen: When you have private actors who want to go in with capital, you also have to let these actors go – when you sit in the woods, when you have public owners. When the Council of State Breck put it out for tender, as he says, I fully agree with the Council of State Brekk: it is to be put on a tender, and you should take the most expensive. But when Statskog does not put it up for tender, but just sits on it for years, no one lets go and thus stops development and industrial development! Well, this is socialist policy, that's the way the world is with them: stop all industrial development, get the northern people on subsidies!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3077	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 4493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3085	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3200	The vote is first taken over the I, III and IV positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3211	It is then voted over the setting's II. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3225	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3235	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3243	During the debate Åse Michaelsen put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a plan to prevent economic and social benefits for foreign criminals who are sentenced to Norwegian prisons and to give priority to the construction of simpler prisons for this group.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3274	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2. from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party These proposals are converted into transmission proposals during the debate. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘The government is advised to strengthen the external research effort to measure the content of, and effectiveness of, the work of, the criminal services, including the content of the social penalty and the leadership competence of the criminal justice system.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government open the way for community sanctions to take place in private.’ The President proposes that these proposals be submitted to the government without a proper vote — and considers it to be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3375	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3385	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3740	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3750	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3825	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3835	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3843	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 1 is converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government provide a comprehensive overview of the establishment of housing for those sentenced to detention under acquittal outside ordinary prisons.’ The President proposes that this proposal be transmitted to the Government without a trial of reality – and considers it to be acceptable. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a transitional residence in connection with the Ila prison and detention centre, which is being developed into a national centre of competence for the return of the custodian.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the practice of residence of custodians in ordinary dwellings.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3891	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Appeal of the Grand Duchy shall review cases relating to compensation for children of war.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e3923	During the debate Trond Helleland put forward two proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to intensify negotiations on readmission agreements with the countries of origin of asylum seekers most frequently arrested in drug and other criminal matters.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make greater use of the possibility of quickly returning criminal asylum seekers to their country of origin if they return quickly from another Dublin Member State and commit new crimes in Norway. The size requires this to be done in the framework of the Dublin II Regulation.» The left has announced their support for the proposals. Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4117	The President draws attention to the fact that it is the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party that is behind II, III, IV, V and VI in the vote. It is therefore expected that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV will vote against. In addition, it is notified that the Left also supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4134	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Törgeir Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right. 4, from Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer settlement period to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit its own notification of landfills during 2011.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the compensation scheme for the loss of cleanness, including assessing the reinforcement of the requirements for the documentation of reported losses. The review shall be carried out by an independent body.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4276	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals for the reindeer establishment 2011/2012 are not accepted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4296	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government through the state ownership of Statskog SF to order the company to start with the sale of forest properties and other real estate by the state forest SF owner, by 1 August 2011.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-07.ana.ud888e4327	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
