ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e177	From the representative Borghild Tenden, there is an application for welfare leave from 1 December to 6 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Abid Q. Raja is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e195	Abid Q. Raja is present and will take the seat. Then the President will tell you that the President of the Finnish Parliament, Eero Heinäluoma, is on an official visit to Norway. He is present here today, at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure to wish him and his delegation welcome to the Size. We hope that they will have an interesting and pleasant stay with us, and that the visit will contribute to even closer cooperation between the Storting and the Finnish Parliament. [[Applause from the Chamber]] Welcome. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e213	It is sad that everyone leaves the Chamber when the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is going to present what has been produced as one of our most exciting budgets, at least during this period of enlargement, through some look-up in a national newspaper, but I will come back to that shortly. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee deals with the budgetary context of the Royal House, the Stortinget, the Ombudsman for Defence, the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for Administration or, more specifically, the Civil Ombudsman, the Steering Committee for Intelligence, Surveillance and Security, also known as the EOS Committee, and the National Audit Office. Nor in 2012 have significant changes been proposed in the adoption of the Royal Family, despite high-sounding speculations in one of the former newspapers. Neither the majority nor the minority of the Committee has indicated in the vote that there is any link between the agricultural activity of the Crown Princess Couple and the apany. The budget of the Grand Duchy was initially proposed to be increased by about 15.7 p.m., and the increase relates in particular to part-payment of apartment purchases and some major building changes in addition to normal maintenance. However, the Committee would point out that the Storting decided to reduce the framework of the Committee during the examination of the financial position, and the Committee has covered this reduction by reducing Chapter 41 item 01 Operating expenditure by 5 million. kr and item 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance of 25 million. kr. However, I would like to make it clear that the various parties in their comments and proposals for the financial position have different approaches in their alternative proposals, but for practical reasons the Committee has only chosen to refer to these different proposals in the vote, while one in this debate is voting for the result that will in any case be the final result – for practical reasons. This means that all opposition parties in this setting refer to their own cut proposals promoted in the financial position. The budget for the Ombudsman’s defence department is maintained at about the same level as last year. The Committee has noted that the progress of enquiries under the heading of advice and guidance is strongly increasing. It is important that one should follow this trend, because the work of the Ombudsman in this area is very important. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for administration continues to have a large and increasing number of complaints from citizens. The role of the Civil Ombudsman is known to control that there is no injustice or error by the government against the citizens of the State. It is also important that the Civil Ombudsman maintains a high level of activity in relation to targeted activities. The intelligence, surveillance and security service control committee of the EEAS has a wide field of work and controls both civil and military intelligence and security services. The EOS Committee has over time received some increase in its budgets, and it shall allow the sample to carry out several project-oriented studies in addition to the ongoing control activities and inspection activities. The Committee has also pointed out in the past the possibility that, in exceptional cases, the EOS Committee may request additional appropriations, as was the case when the sample would conduct specific studies on the methodology used by POT in the Treholt case. The National Audit Office has an important role to play as the Supervisory Body of the Storting. The reports of the National Audit Office are important for the follow-up of the control responsibilities of Stortinget to the executive. In 2012, new audit support tools, new international standards and electronic processing will be implemented in the National Audit Office. It has been suggested that this will make the National Audit Office more effective and ensure even better quality during audit and information sharing. The budget of the National Audit Office is in line with the proposal presented. The Committee's position is unanimous, but both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have some specific comments. The Progress Party refers to the financial position in which the party proposed a cut in the allocations for group aid of 30 million. kr. The right hand side has referred to the financial position, where the party proposes to cut 15 million. kr in the operating budget of Stortingen, SEK 15 million. kr in the Investment and Maintenance Budget of the Storting and SEK 15 million. kr in the budget of the National Audit Office. The left has referred to its proposals in the financial position, where they propose a 45 million reduction in the Storting budget. NOK in the item for the purchase of apartments. I will briefly allow myself to replace the committee leader hat for a moment and say a little on behalf of the Progress Party. The progress party has noticed that this time something has happened that at least we have not discovered before. The original draft budget of the Ombudsman was three million. kr higher than the draft budget which the civil ombudsman finally presented to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. The reason for the change shall be said to be that the Presidency has asked the Civil Ombudsman to come back with a new draft budget with budgetary constraints in relation to the submitted budget. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to say that I think this is an unfortunate way of dealing with the Civil Ombudsman's draft budget, in particular taking into account the fact that both the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the political environment have in the past been clear that the increased progress made by the Civil Ombudsman must also be reflected in the budgets of the Civil Ombudsman. So for all the overmeasures, this correspondence is initially non-public. That means that we do not have access, or knowledge, to what in this case has been the civil ombudsman's original draft budget. The Progress Party has proposed to correct the financial situation by increasing the budget of the Civil Ombudsman by 3 million. kr. However, I would ask the Presidency to exercise some caution in forwarding budget proposals back to the Civil Ombudsman in the future – in case rather, leave it to the Stortinge in the ordinary budgetary procedure to deal with it. To the extent that there is a need for further comments – and then I suddenly take on board the committee leader again – or justifications from the respective parties, I suppose they themselves will explain their views further. In addition to these comments, the Committee's position is unanimous and so presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e248	I take the floor as the case rapporteur for the Defence Ombudsman – perhaps it should be called ombudsman after all, but it is now still called the ombudsman. It appears from the Ombudsman’s draft budget that there is an increasing number of women in the first-time service who contact the Ombudsman. It may be positive, but it is also a warning. We are a country that has for years peaked all gender equality statistics, but in the UNDP’s latest development report, where Norway continues to be the top of the world’s best country to live in, we have fallen in gender equality. There may be several reasons for this: lack of female leaders in business, or that we are among the worst in defence women. In the last decade, there has been an declared objective of increasing the proportion of women in the defence, both among first-time service providers and among the command and officer groups. Several structural measures have been implemented, including: is now mandatory for both girls and boys — but without significant change. New young women are going to be right, but the same number are going to end in a short time. Perhaps there are completely different measures to structural ones. Maybe the culture itself and the internal code have to change. In an attitude from a sample under the Workers' Party's current women's political regime from 2003 – a few years ago – we can read the following: ‘The defence is in many ways a human bastion that promotes traditional values. As this closed-end system works, young men who are basically both gender-oriented and concerned with softer values will be dubbed into a reality that is somewhat different from the official Norwegian gender equality policy. To put it that way with Kristin Mile and Mona Hansen-Asp: the human role exposed in the Defence is poorly rhymed with the expectations society otherwise sets for modern, equal men.» The media headlines of the past few weeks have shown us that the young girls – those who dare to cross the threshold and say yes to the first-time service – are struggling with both culture and machomenne among the lower orders. Resolution 1325 of the Security Council of October 2000 – as we mention in the committee's position – not only addresses women as victims of war, but also calls for women to be included in the building of peace and democracy, Resolution 1325 also commands the Member States to ensure that women are both in the forums that take security policy decisions and in the armed forces. We know that male officers cannot follow Afghan women to school or work, or, for that matter, communicate with female refugees in Chad about sanitary articles. We just have to have girls there. But then we have to make sure that it's possible for girls, not just to go into the Defense, but actually to stay there. That is why the Committee has also asked the Defence Ombudsman to give details of the requests made by the girls in his next regular report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e275	The chairperson of the Committee presented the vote in a very good way. I should therefore only have a short post. At the time of the budgetary review in the Financial Committee, this led to a modest adjustment and improvement of the budget. It happened by a decrease of 30 million. kr on the allocation to Stortinget. That amount is not large, but it's a signal of a slightly greater economy in Storting's business. Not least, there is an important signal into a time when greater proximity will have to affect society — from top to bottom — in terms of the use of money. In short: The Storting grants the Crown Prince's pledge. The Crown Prince's pledge is an annual budgetary question, as it is in our democracy. The plan shall be proportionate to the responsibilities and responsibilities of His Royal Highness The Crown Prince at all times. I am very pleased that we have such a system, that every year the Stortinge give notice of the battles of the Royal House, and the King and the Crown Prince have in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e284	It's not to mark the slightly unusual alliance between Right and Lundtegen in this context, yet I can't fail to draw attention to it. The austerity now mentioned by the representative Lundtigen is the Right’s proposal from the Financial Institution, which then received a majority in the course of its proceedings there. It's a frugality that I think the Storting absolutely can live with. But I asked primarily for the word of a line to the chairman of the committee at the moment he took off the chair of the committee and asked the presidency not to deal with matters relating to the grand nominated bodies. To that I can say that I will not follow that request, for my part at least, because that some organs do not get the money they are asking for is actually quite common. If you sum up what all the underlying agencies under the government apparatus are asking for out of money, you'd very quickly find out that most people don't get what they're asking for. In the case of bodies appointed by the Stortinget, the ombudsmen – i.e. the civil ombudsman, the ombudsman of the military and civil servants, the Riksrevision and the EOS Committee – the practice is that it is not treated by the government, naturally enough. These shall be independent control bodies of the Storting, therefore the procedure here is different. Then, in a way, the presidency takes up the role of the department and deals with these applications. It is absolutely not uncommon for a dialogue to take place that makes it impossible for these administrations of the EOS Committee, for the National Audit Office, for the ombudsmen, to meet. It's a very common procedure, and in the time I've been in the presidency, it's also been the usual. So in other words, not getting what you're asking for is more practice than that is the exception. This should also be the case, for the sparingness to characterise this Assembly in the adoption of a budget should also mark the treatment of the bodies to which we grant the Grand Duchy. So such a request to give what is requested, for my part, I will not follow. This practice has been the case under changing presidency, even during all the periods in which the Progress Party has been well represented in the Presidency of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e293	It's going to be line change. Anders Anundsen doesn't want a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e298	No, I want articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e303	Anders Anundsen then wishes to speak the word, not in line, and the President will invite the representatives to use the electronic system to ask for speaking time, possibly a line. The next speaker is Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e308	I've used the electronic system, and it works. The case-speaker has put forward the Committee's position in a simple and good way, and I would also like to say that the objections to the Civil Ombudsman must be looked at more closely next year in order to discuss whether what the committee's leader said, with the hat, is reality. A brief comment on this with the apany, which became a theme in various media, was linked to a comment proposed by the Center Party, and which SV had no problem joining – that one should cut something in the apany this year – but which was not signed up to the option. Obviously, for SV, as a Republican party, it's quite natural to look at how much money a user spends on having a royal house in Norway. Then it is easy to agree to proposals that look at this quite concretely. However, when we have not suggested cutting from SV's side, it is among other things. because we have understood that this is such an important matter for the «Kingdom’s Norwegian Workers’ Party» that we are forced to let the matter lie and rather give priority to policy areas of which it is more important for the SV and the government to be occupied. That's why we don't propose cutting the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e319	The President would just like to point out that there is nothing called the Royal Norwegian Workers' Party, and it is likely that the representative of Langeland knows very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e323	Then I can also confirm that the electronic system to ask for speaking time is working. The fingers don't work as well now, I understand, as they did before. I'll take note of that. The reason I took the floor is not that I want to start some polemics with the representative Foss. But I guess the representative Foss was wearing the President's hat when he stood here and was relatively instructive in the way he explained how to deal with budgets from Storting's own organs. There's no need for that. I am relatively well aware of that, and if the representative Foss had followed closely, I said that the presidency should be withholding from asking for new budgets from the Civil Ombudsman, in the light of the signals given earlier by the Committee of Control and Constitution and the Storting, where it has just been pointed out that due to the increasing volume of proceedings of the Civil Ombudsman, there may be a need for increased budgets. It was then followed up by the Civil Ombudsman, and I am very pleased that the case-rapporteur of the Civil Ombudsman Committee now announces that he will take a closer look at this issue in connection with the consideration of the next budget. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e330	In fact, with the risk of being a teacher, the Storting is only expressed in two ways. It is through Roman number decisions and through legislative decisions. Signals are not sent, either to presidency or to governments, i.e. You can send the signals you want, but they're completely non-committal to a government. The size determines by the shapes we have. Otherwise, the expression is that ‘a budget is sent back’ is completely wrong, because it does not happen to send budgets back. There is a dialogue between the Presidency and the bodies appointed by the Stortinget with a view to establishing a budget on which both parties have finally agreed. It is the same procedure that takes place between a department and underlying bodies. We can see that there are two government councils that have significant underlying bodies, and I'm sure they've wanted more money than what they got in the budget. That correspondence is also not subject to disclosure. This practice is also followed in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e337	I think both the representative Foss and I can agree that the government is not so good at following signals, but I have to say that I expect the Presidency of the Stortinge to be able to follow signals that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e360	It is rape when a person is forced to sex against his will. A rape is not just an assault on the body. It's also an assault on the soul. Rape leads to major after-effects, and often the victim corrects the remorse to himself. Unfortunately, some women carry the painful secret for years and try to forget the assault in the hope that they can put it behind them. International studies agree that rape is a highly traumatic event. A study of women in receptions of rape showed that two weeks after the rape, a total of 72 psts were met. the criteria for the diagnosis of acute stress disorder — ASD, the characteristic of unreality, re-experience, withdrawal and increased vigilance. 27 other women were examined three months after the attack. 56 pst. of which met the criteria for diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder – PTSD, and a total of 33 pst. lack of only one symptom to get the diagnosis. Two major US studies have looked at the occurrence of post-traumatic stress disorder and which traumas most often lead to the development of this disorder. It was found that among men as well as among women, a traumatic experience was raped, which most often led to the development of post-traumatic stress disorder. 32 pst. by those who had, or had had, post-traumatic stress disorder during their lives, had been subject to a complete rape. Additional 31 pst. by those who had or had had post-traumatic stress disorder during their lives, had been subjected to other sexual assaults. The studies I'm referring to are made by the researchers Elklit, Magnusdóttir and Knudsen, as well as Barlow's Clinical Handbook of Pscyhological Disorders, published in 2008. When I initially spend time describing rape as the serious breach of integrity it represents, it's not because there's political disagreement about describing the problem, but to remind ourselves that violence is not a matter for many, but a social sin that needs to be combated in order for us to be able to say at all that we live in a good and safe society. We will never be able to eradicate crime in full and thus not rape. But we have to ask ourselves if we're doing enough, and if what we're doing is working. A comparison with other Scandinavian capitals gives us a basis for thinking about it. According to the NRK, new figures from the police districts of our two neighbouring countries show that the 48 attacks in Oslo this year are sending the city to the top in comparison with Copenhagen and Stockholm. Taking into account the population, Oslo has 7.9 reported rapes per 10,000 inhabitants, while Stockholm is 20 pst. lower and Copenhagen 60 pst. lower. Now this may vary slightly from year to year, but over a decade, the number of reported rapes in Oslo has increased by over 84pst. Only in the last three years has the increase been over 20 p.p., while the trend in our two neighbouring capitals is falling percentages. Today we met with morning news that told us about the problem of repeat violence. I think we all agree that rape must be combated on a broad front. Prevention work at school, efforts towards newly arrived asylum seekers and migrant workers, informationing our urban spaces and some going away at night, are some examples of how civil society is also being mobilised. But that's not what's the theme of this interpellation. This is a development of assault violence in the Oslo police district, which has come out of control at my discretion and at the discretion of many others. My challenge to the Council of State is about her responsibility. How can she, as head of the country's justice sector, contribute? The reason why I stress that it is the responsibility of the Council of States to discuss today is that her predecessors tended to involve all other measures than those for which he himself was responsible when we discussed this. We now, at my discretion, need the following message from the country's Minister of Justice: I am responsible for the fight against crime in Norway, and it is useful to make an effort. Let me suggest some solutions. Police officers and women in Oslo are doing a good job, giving them the framework conditions to which they are subject. It's not their fault they're understaffed. It is not their fault to have halved the number of patrolling police forces since 1987. In experience, we know that 80 pst. the crime is committed by 20 pst. repeaters, offenders who have infringed the rules of law in other areas. That is why I believe that it is also possible to have targeted efforts to combat rape. We need to be willing to address a sub-theme that may not always be politically correct, and which is sometimes exploited by political side-by-side, namely the fact that non-Norwegian perpetrators represent 65 pst. of the rapes and thus is strongly overrepresented in the statistics. Rapid return of persons without legal residence is also important in this context. The Parliamentary Committee delivered its opinion in January 2008. The government should have had more than enough time to consider the measures that were recommended as relatively accurate. I see from the newspapers that the Council of State has called for an action plan, but my party, Right, has already promoted a number of concrete proposals for action. I'll mention someone: Voluntary police: appropriate training is given to civil society and acts as a form of reinforced weighting service – a remedy for the lack of police force during a transitional period. Better use of civil servants in the police will release ratings for police duties and give visible presence. Measures to keep police seniors at work provide more police force and better opportunities for knowledge transfer within the organisation. Use of ‘second opinion’ for DNA analyses: Currently there are a wide range of trace samples on which no DNA material is available. These should be sent for re-analysis by another laboratory. Right-wing wants these activities to be put out of competition in order to ensure the best possible quality at the lowest possible price. The use of recognised private laboratories, accredited by the Forensic Institute, which may provide answers within three to five days, where the public spends months, and where there has been a waiting period of up to six months. This is also essential in order to achieve the quality of the investigation that makes it possible to execute and thus clear and prosecute more offences and to punish more perpetrators. I look forward to the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e420	Rape is a very serious crime. It is infringing human dignity on the most serious, it causes the victim great suffering, and it spreads fear and insecurity. We don't want it that way, and we have to do everything we can to make girls and women feel safe. The question of how to prevent new abuses is crucial. Strengthening police and awareness-raising activities are essential in prevention. Preventive action against rape also requires cooperation. It is important to further develop and coordinate a broad, comprehensive effort between the police and the municipality, and between the public, private and voluntary sectors. The government has prioritised police councils as an important form of crime prevention. The Police Council is a strategic cooperation forum involving the municipality in the prevention work with the police. As the questioner asks, this has been done in Stavanger with good results. It has also been positive to see that more than the police are helping to take Oslo streets back, among other things. through a large number of night rains and through the action of the Oslo City Council, including: for lighting. The government has for a long time strengthened its efforts to combat rape. It includes measures to improve investigations, court proceedings, post-criminal relief measures and research, as well as prevention. We are preparing a status report on the measures proposed by the rape committee, which will be published on the government’s website. The status reporting will provide a good basis for further work. I would like to stress that a lot is already being done to combat rape, and this work continues. In addition, we are intensifying efforts in Oslo in the context of the recent situation. Police play an essential role in the security-building work. From the 4th to the 6th weekend. November, the efforts in Oslo during the weekends have been considerably strengthened with almost a doubling of the number of police officers in the streets. In addition, the U.S. Police are contributing with car patrols. We are to have a visible police force to care for the people's need for security, and under this government, the police and the prosecution authorities have been given considerable resources. Rape cases are challenging to investigate and prove, and require considerable resources. In the wake of the many rapes in Oslo recently, the police officer in Oslo has stated that the violence and morality section in Oslo is being strengthened by ten new posts, in order to conduct investigations and analysis. The quality and competence of the investigation are necessary to increase the percentage of clarification. Increased clearance rates are also necessary for the prevention of criminal response. We've set up a rape squad in Kripos to work against sexualized violence. The Government has proposed four new posts in the 2012 budget, with a total of 16 posts in this rape group. The Group has become an important national professional community for the sharing of information and competences in the field of rape. It helps to improve the quality of the investigation and speed up the investigation of rape cases in the police districts, and it will be able, if necessary, to assist the Oslo police. In order to improve the quality of the handling of such cases by the police and the prosecution authority, the national lawyer also issued new prosecution directives in February 2008, including a routine assessment of the recording of sound and/or image of insulted police statements in rape cases. It is also clear from the national lawyer’s instructions on the objectives and priorities that rape cases should be given priority. The Advocate General has also conducted a police and prosecution training seminar on the assessment of evidence and the prosecution of rape cases. The investigation has also been reinforced by the drawing up by Kripos of a nationally available electronic web for the investigation into rape cases. The DNA reform, which has allowed for less serious crime to be recorded in the DNA registry, will help to identify offenders as early as possible. Very many of those convicted of serious crime have been convicted in the past for less serious crime. The experience of DNA expansion in Denmark is that several older rape cases have been resolved because perpetrators have since been targeted for new crime and in this respect DNA testing is performed. It's very good capacity for analysis of DNA personnel samples, and I'm happy to tell you that the residues are downgraded. Today, the limit of being registered in the DNA registry is 60-day prison. We'll consider lowering this limit, so that DNA samples are also taken by those who are convicted of less serious crime, which can contribute to more clarification. However, this needs to be carefully considered, including in particular: be balanced against important data protection considerations. A prerequisite for carrying out investigations is that the victims of the rape report the infringement. An important contribution to increasing the frequency of reporting is to ensure that the person coming to the police meets with empathy and professionalism. In this context, family violence coordinators in all police districts are essential. The family violence coordinator function shall be a 100 pst. the position and has been extended to include sexual assault. In the larger districts, there are separate teams. A comprehensive evaluation of the police's work on violence in close relationships is under way and will provide input into how we can further strengthen our efforts. The system of family violence coordinator and team is a central part of the evaluation. The evaluation report will be available in June next year. Good and targeted prevention requires knowledge. Four studies are now being carried out, respectively, on the presence of rape and the characteristics of rapists. I would also like to draw up the 2010 rape report of the Oslo Police District, ‘rape in the global city. Changes in notified rapes and sexual culture in Oslo». The report is designed to provide a basis for police prevention against rape. Oslo police districts have presented a strategy plan in the light of the report that will be followed by proposals for action. I would also like to remind you that before we can conclude with regard to the increase in the number of rapes, an analysis of the numerical basis must be carried out, with the same methods and thoroughness on which the figures were based last year. There is also reason to stress that the largest proportion of rapes occur between people who know each other. It happens in relationships, at home, in close relationships. Festive situations with high alcohol consumption are an arena where women are particularly vulnerable according to the Oslo violence report for 2010. Of the 189 rapes and attempted rapes reported in Oslo in 2010, the rapes represent 12.9 p.m. If the definition of rape and the strategies for prevention and follow-up are equivalent to assault, the focus will be on vandalism, and we will only be able to succeed in the work to a limited extent. We need to strengthen our work against rape. We consider setting up an inter-ministerial working group to develop a separate action plan against rape. In the work it will be, among other things: is based on the remaining challenges of the RAC investigation from word to action, from 2008, and it will be an objective to determine the status of unimplemented actions and how the necessary and good actions can be made as targeted and effective as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e460	The Council of State stated that if the focus is too narrow, it will not achieve its objectives in the fight against rape. I think this government has had too much focus on what it's doing. So it has a surplus to have an idea of how families should set up their everyday lives, how to distribute parental leave, how to organise family fathers during the leave period in relation to newborns with other fathers in the same situation. It is therefore too broad a focus on serious societal problems such as rape. I agree that it's not just assault violence. But they actually have a connection with another type of crime, that is, what we see here in the city – that areas where assaults take place are also the most burdensome in terms of common rands and roughs. If you are also interested in this aspect of police work, you can get a lot more serious crimes, but that – after all – rank in the category of rape. I listened with interest to what the Council of State said about activities. As the Council of State is relatively new in this round, in this department, there is also a waiting for something to come. As I was inside, I think that the red-green government in its government period has already had a wrong focus, and also legally waited a long time for the follow-up to the rape committee's position by not being active in dealing with the proposals. They have also not told the Storting why you do not go into the recommendations. There's a tendency to put such investigations in a drawer. The Council of State made a reference to the Attorney General. In addition to what was mentioned, he has also been concerned about wages and salaries, the status of investigators within the police. The Oslo State Attorney also believes that the lack of status applies to investigators of this type of case, and that this is part of a major problem. It also means that you have problems in getting the cases processed and getting them corrected. Of course, it also has an impact on the power and prevention of the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e469	Rape is a serious crime and a social problem. I tried to get the breadth of the measures taken by the government to combat this. In order to prevent rape, it is also essential to ensure good cooperation across, between agencies, levels of authority and non-governmental organisations. I don't recognize myself in the picture that was attempted by a lack of focus. There are no governments that have had a stronger focus on the fight against rape and violence in close relationships, and where systematic work has been done over several years. We're going to sum up where we are, in the cold water of the NOU that was presented in 2008, as I said. When insinuating that measures have not been followed up, I would like to point out that there has been a discussion as to whether it was to comply with the committee's proposal when establishing the rape group at Kripos, rather than establishing a central, self-unit against sexualised violence. My experience in this sector is that in order for a professional community to be able to draw on the broad analysis and investigation capacity of an environment such as Kripos, such a rape group is more powerful than if it had been established on its own. There is also a part about the number of reports and the number of rapes. I'm glad to see that the number of reviews is increasing. I think it helps make the invisible visible, and that once we've had an increase in the number of reviews of 500 pst. Since 2006, I don't think it necessarily reflects the real increase in the number of rapes, but that the girls/women dare to get there. And then we need to know that it is a good offer both in the police and in the health services to help and correct the serious crime that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e476	For the sake of order, I just want to say that, in terms of the figures from Copenhagen and Stockholm, they were commented on by Hanne Kristin Rohde at the Oslo Police Chamber. Without reducing the seriousness of the situation in any way, she said that there were different ways to register, and that when it came to the number of rapes in Oslo, both perpetrated rapes and attempted assaults were registered, while she felt that the practice was different in Copenhagen and Stockholm. But as I said, it does not reduce the dramatic seriousness of the situation. I noticed that in the interpellation it was important to learn from the experience in Stavanger. We in the Justice Committee have visited Stavanger, and there was just the interaction between the municipality, the police and all the volunteers who could set up, they indicated as the main key. When the interpellant goes out so strongly and says that he will only discuss the responsibility of the Council of State and not discuss the interaction, it surprises me a little. In my work on this in Oslo, I have always stressed that it is important that we now stop accusing each other, but try to stand up together against a phenomenon for which no one but the perpetrators are responsible. The mobilization we have now seen in Oslo, the positive attitude, where the municipality has set up its offices, where the police have doubled its resources in the street – we have seen many more of them – where volunteers have set up as nightfalls and others, and have been present in a completely different way, creates a mood that now we should stop this, which I think will get through when we just endure and show perseverance in the effort. I'm a little surprised by the confrontational attitude there, and you don't want to talk about the interaction that I think is a crucial key. I think it is positive that everyone should take their responsibility, and that the state should not in any way try to point to others, but do its part of the job. The other experience we gained from Stavanger and also from visiting Bergen was that the investigation methods of the police are crucial. One example of that from Bergen is that it combined the use of DNA records with traffic data storage. The assault was carried out in a place, and then they checked with the base stations who had been in the vicinity of that place, using stored traffic data. Then they invited those who had stayed in the area to take the DNA test. In this way, two advanced methods of investigation were combined and the perpetrator was found. I therefore believe that what the Council of State is withdrawing: expanding the DNA register and making it more extensive will give greater opportunity to resolve these issues, which are very difficult to deal with for the police. I think it will also have other preventive effects, because a criminal career often starts with smaller things, and then one will be able to stop the offenders at an earlier stage. I think it's a good lead the council is in there. Another aspect of the seriousness of our fight against rape is the level of punishment. Last year, the Stortinget had to intervene — it takes time for the new Penal Code of 2005 to be implemented — and to promote a separate case of increasing the level of penalties and penalties, and to adopt it here at Stortinget. That's why I'm a little worried about a number of issues in the media lately, where there's confusion about the level of penalties in the courts. For example, one who was convicted of a series of serious assaults, where there were several people involved – and I underline a series of rapes – was sentenced to 15 years of detention of the district court and law enforcement. The Supreme Court went in and put it down to 12 years. Another example is that Oslo District Court had sentenced a person to rape for three years and six months, while the law of law went in and put it down to one year. A third example is in Drammen, where the state attorney had a claim in six years, while the district court sentenced three years. I'm not going to go into the individual cases, it's well not to notice our task here at Stortinget, but I just want to express a concern that, after stressing the level of penalties in rape cases so much, we see that there are uncertainties in the courts, and that practice has not been in a clearer rental.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e489	The number of rapes has increased sharply in the last year, not only in Oslo, but also in several other major cities in Norway. During the year, it has been reported that the police in Oslo and Trondheim have dropped out of hundreds of cases dealing with assaults and other sexual assaults. But torch trains and celebrations do not prevent assaults. We need action, we need completely concrete action, and we need them quickly. As the previous speaker said, in September, the Justice Committee was on a committee mission to Rogaland and received in-depth information about what worked, and what did not work when Stavanger City two years ago had a very high number of assaults. Some of these measures have hardly been mentioned in the public debate, but I will address these later in this article. So there were many different measures in place. These measures should not be unknown to the Minister of Justice. Furthermore, the RAC, under the direction of Rita Sletner, presented its report as early as 2008. There she pointed to a number of good proposals that could help bring down the number of rapes, but unfortunately we see that by the way none of these proposals have been launched. One could say it was so strong that they were put in a drawer and then they were lying there. DNA is an important source of evidence in rape cases. Police officials often talk about the importance of working on investigation while the evidence is still fresh. This applies in particular to biological tracks. The Judicial Committee has discussed several times in this Chamber the problem of the monopoly of the RMI, the Forensic Institute, and the problems it entails with long waiting and lengthy processing. Now I heard that the Minister of Justice thought that the remainder had been built up. I can't see that that's exactly right, but I hope it's better than it has been, and it looks like it does. In the absence of custody sites, we see that potential perpetrators are released pending a DNA analysis. They are thus given a chance to run off or commit new rapes. We need nuanced information about who commits these rapes, and why. One suggestion is that we put all prejudices aside and analyze exactly what we think we know: Nearly no ethnic Northmen carry out assaults. A few people are behind many assaults. They are non-Western, but not necessarily with illegal residence in the kingdom. Victims are alone, and some urban areas are more vulnerable than others. This year there have been 48 registered rapes in Oslo. The police have taken seven perpetrators. Everyone has a non-Western background. There is a broad political consensus that rape is essentially about attitudes and about a lack of respect and empathy for other people. Violence, rape and assault belong together. There are great numbers of darkness, especially in close relationships, and I guess I don't have to say that violence is a very big problem in connection with these attitudes. Our crisis centres around the country are filled by a large majority of women and children with a foreign background. The Stavanger police used untraditional methods to combat rape. They were printed, among others. a separate information brochure in different languages on Norwegian culture and Norwegian rules, which was distributed in places where many people with foreign backgrounds travel. They contacted imams to establish a dialogue on actions and needs for information to the environment. They printed out sheets of information and information for perpetrators in several languages and distributed them in the restaurant and discotheque environment. And they started their own course in the direction of the introduction program with a greater focus on Norwegian conditions and women's rights. The results speak for themselves – from well over 20 rapes down to zero in a short time, they managed to do so in Stavanger. The former Minister of Justice described rape as a near-drap. I am convinced that the new Minister of Justice shares this view. The majority will soon receive two proposals for representatives dealing with assaults, one from the Left and the other from the Progress Party. I expect the government to take the chance and vote for as many of these proposals as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e523	I want to start by clarifying an obvious misunderstanding. Right is not critical of the government’s focus on violence in close relationships. There we have actually boasted of the previous Minister of Justice, Storberget, for having an enormous focus. He's one of the few who's taken it up. But today's theme is therefore raped in more distant relations in relation to the responsibilities of the Council of State. Recently, I met a young man who was severely raped when he was 14 years old. For years he did everything he could to keep it from him. What he said was, "I just want to be able to sleep, to get me an education and not be so angry." That's what he had of messages to us – if we could help him with it. Rape is going to happen, and as a society, we need to prevent it. That's the theme of today's interpellation. But once the damage has happened, as a society, we must also be able to capture the symptoms of various rape victims. Some people change a lot of behavior, some people don't act like the perfect victim and they're in foster position, like those who have seen it in movies, they think they should. Some become sexually provocative, some become very aggressive, and some seem extremely strong and tough because they don't want to be a victim of rape. They're exposed to rape, but they don't see themselves as a victim. There are some demands on the auxiliary equipment and the police to meet them, for several of them that the auxiliary equipment meets do not think that this is the problem. The guy I'm talking about had been with the shrink for two years. So the psychologist did not know after two years that he had been subjected to a gross rape. It says something about the fact that a professional training does not necessarily qualify to help people with the causes of their symptoms. For two weeks, the debate on rape has almost overshadowed everything else. Now the camera lights are turned off a little bit again, and what I'm afraid of is that there's a whole bunch of victims and exposed again that now feel they're forgotten. Now, by and large, most people have been very keen, very committed to the question, and now they are largely interested again in discussing what you can do to prevent and help those who are exposed. The guy I met won't report. He can't do that. He just wants help to sleep and help get an education, after a sports career doesn't get any of it because he couldn't take a shower with the other guys. It is the situation of those who have been raped. So over to what's the main theme of the interpellant. It is deliberately chosen, because it is right as the interpellant says, that we have had a Minister of Justice who has talked about very much different – very important, very good – but very rarely about what has been at the heart of the issue, namely the Minister of Justice's own responsibility. The police coverage has declined in the last few years to 21 out of 27 police districts. When manning is reduced in relation to population, prevention and not least the focus on moral crimes are not necessarily what is given the highest internal priority in a police district. Next year, police coverage is likely to decline in relation to population growth, and this is contrary to Storting's assumptions. It's also incomprehensible that the government won't use anyone else to analyze DNA. Ideological arguments – that’s okay – but if you were ideological, you wouldn’t have used private companies to get evidence on much more incriminating things, such as drugs. the contents of mobile phones, computers, etc. It's much more serious if you think you're privacy-adjusted, which is what the government is using as an argument, against, for example, using GENA in Stavanger. There is no central strategy for better use of civil servants, and the police are not at work when most crime occurs in many police districts. Nor is it a dedicated person in the Police Directorate who holds a hand over what is involved in combating moral crimes. As a member of the board of directors of what is called the Skiv world, I have a reasonable strong doubt that they have the full competence in the Oslo police to work against rape and abuse in minority environments, based on the feedback I get. The question is whether, with the Kripos group, as with the framework transfers to municipalities, there will be something that will last a few years, so as to be included in the usual operating budget, then phased out or not given priority. It's an open question, it's still to be seen. Finally, I agree with the representative of Bohemia that we need to look at the level of penalties again. The Right too strongly responds to the Supreme Court judgment, because it is possible to wonder what it takes to use the criminal framework fully, when serious rapes are committed. I think many people see that as a mockery of society and the victims too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e555	I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. It's a question that all women know about the body, and which I think is among the most important questions the National Assembly can debate. As many have encountered, it is that someone invades your body with violence or other coercion, which of the most offensive a human being can experience. I think the Minister of Justice said it exactly when she said it was a violation of human dignity. Assaults differ from other rapes on a few points. First, they are generally much more violent than other rapes. Second, the victims of assault violence are more afraid of their own lives during the rape. In addition, assaults are a cause of fear among the population, especially among the female population. It makes it unsafe for women to move outdoors. I would like to say a few words about the debate. Fortunately, so far in this big debate, all speakers before me have been very clear on who is responsible for rape. I'm glad. But in the public debate, we are constantly looking at a recurring issue, and that is what the victim himself could do differently to avoid the rape. Too often, there is a focus on how girls move, what time they move, what they wear when they move during this period, and whether or not they have drunk alcohol. Some even claim that some women are asking to be raped by their behavior. The message that the perpetrators send to the victim of the rape and to all women is that they accept that rape is happening, and that women have to find that rape is happening, and that they have to have their own guidelines. The message I want us to send to all women is that we do not accept it and that it is the rapist who has a problem. These are attitudes that persist far into the legal system. It's more serious than just reading it in the paper. In judicial and judicial cases, the victim’s suit is often described down to every detail. I have e.g. read that a victim was wearing a lightly intruded dress. You can wonder what kind of relevance it had to the matter, and we see that perpetrators are acquitted because of what kind of sexual history the victim has had before the rape. This threatens the legal certainty of Norwegian women. Norwegian women have no legal certainty against rape when we have such conditions in Norwegian courts. In addition, it creates a distinction between worthy and unworthy victims that we cannot live with. Many have referred to the rapes in the fall as a wave, including myself. I suggest we end with this right here and now. When something happens evenly all the time, it's not a wave, it's a chronic state. Finally, a little heart attack: it's good and right that we have our own debate on assault violence, not least because of the fear it creates in everyone, when assault violence happens. I'm concerned that with the sole focus on assault violence in the public domain, we are involved in strengthening a story about how rapes happen, which does not always match reality, because, most often when rapes occur in Norway, the perpetrator and the victim know each other. Most often it's not very violent even. The fact that we as a society and as women are so trained in a story about a man hiding behind a bush, makes us often doubt whether we have been subjected to an assault, when we have it. The victim often discovers late – many weeks later – that what happened was actually a rape. Then it's pretty late to secure traces and evidence. I insist that this debate is very important. I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up assault violence in the main hall, but we need to get the same crisis mood that we have in terms of assault violence, for all the other rapes committed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e574	What this interpellation addresses is a very important topic, and I agree with what is being said from several people, that it is important to distinguish between the debate on qualifiers in general and the qualifiers, not because we are not going to take the first type seriously, but because, after all, there are different phenomena. I want to liken that André Oktay Dahl points out that men too are chosen, and that the darkness valley there is probably greater than among women. They are also subjected to more rough, blind selections. There's also something we have to take seriously. I think that we're talking a lot more about electoral law now, both about assault warrants and about other types of electoral law, hopefully leads to more people reporting to the police, and that this allows us to take several perpetrators, and that many people understand that they should not be ashamed of themselves when they have been subjected to such an assault. Stavanger has done an impressive job against assault warrants, and Oslo, of course, needs to learn from their experience. But then we have to remember that Oslo is both much bigger and more incomprehensible than Stavanger, and there is a lot more massive effort needed in Oslo, I think, in order to get similar results. There have been good analyses of the electoral problem in Oslo, but targeted strategy and concrete follow-up can be improved. That's the next step. I mean, it's urgent that this step is taken. Women's vision is part of this issue. There are many of them in public, both among the Nordics and among foreigners. When Norwegian men select, we do not say that this is part of Norwegian culture and women's vision. It is important for me to point out that it can easily happen when there are foreign electors. But then, statistics suggest that there are a lot more non-Western perpetrators, especially from some countries — they are in large numbers, especially when it comes to the electoral system. I think we need to balance this debate as much as we can, and remember, of course, that the vast majority of non-Western men are not electives. We don't have to go in a trap here. But if we ignore the statistics and don't take action based on the knowledge we can get, I don't think we can fight the problem either. Unfortunately, there are quite strong and frightening female-to-female postures in some groups, and then it's important that we don't forget that part. We have to point out that women should dress and behave as they please, without being seen as potential victims of election that there is reason to be able to attack. One party I have called for in this debate is immigrant organisations and imams. In Stavanger, the very reception of asylum was an important part of the cooperation that was carried out in order to overcome the attacks, where it was about conveying what we would like to perceive as Norwegian values and Norwegian women's vision, and the gender perspective – a type of dissemination of important values for hopefully preventing the problem around electorate. I think to the extent that I am mistaken when I believe that there are relatively many groups who have a demeaning view of women, it is quite possible for the immigrant organisations and imams to correct that view by being more active in the debate, by stating that women should get teased and dress as they please, and that they are not light on the wire osb. if they dress differently than maybe their women do. We have a government that takes this problem seriously, and I'm somewhat surprised at some of the criticism that comes. Many good measures have been taken, including: The DNA reform, a private investigation environment in Kripos, and not least that we also have tightened criminal law. Finally, I would like to convey that I believe that the courts seem to have taken far too little into account the clear signals that the legislative assembly, as we are, has given that they should use the upper part of the penalty framework far more widely when judging someone for election. It has to happen a lot more quickly, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e600	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic and for having a good debate in Stortinget. This is a matter that has been much discussed, even though it has now become more silent than it was a few weeks ago. The interpellant takes into account both assaults and rapes in close relations, in its text. I'll call it a wave of assault violence, because there's so many more this year than it's been before. I also see that other cities, like Stavanger, to which the interpellant refers, have managed to do something about it. That's why I think this is a discussion about rapes in general, but it's also a discussion about the rapes, which creates a huge fear across the city and across the country. At the same time, there is also a discussion about rape in close relationships, which is also terrible. I want to try to come up with my moments about both, because I think, as the representative Gina Knutson Barstad pointed out in an excellent way, it's important to fight both parts. In the short term, I think it's very important just to stop the rape wave, because it creates a huge fear, and because one can no longer walk safely around the city. An important point for the Christian People's Party is probably visible police. There are, for example, two points. that there are many newly educated policemen/women who are currently leaving without a job. They could get a job and create security in the city. Another point is that one could reduce the turnout times and through it released a lot of resources in the police, which spends its time at the wrong time of the day, which could rather spend its capacity and resources on several policemen who could help prevent rape. Then another point will be competence in investigation and also that DNA evidence has to come quickly. One knows that many of the men involved in assault rape are serial rapists. Judging them as quickly as possible will also prevent new rapes. Then we have to have a better care of the victims, so that more people are dry and able to report. And then we have to look at those who have succeeded, whether it's abroad, or whether it's for Stavanger. But I think the points from Stavanger – where one was able to stop it completely – are very good. Coordination is a crossroads – have their own forum, as they do, for example. in Stavanger, where non-governmental organisations, DIXI, Ottar, refugees, refugee aid, taxis, municipalities and police work together. One is also getting a lot more focus on testing. These are measures that are more in the short term, which I think it is important to implement now, in order to reduce the number of assaults and stop the wave that is now. But in the long term, as it may well be so important to talk about when discussing rape, the Christian People's Party calls for a decision to be taken on a national action plan against rape and sexual assault. I believe that the Council of State should go into the brink of a zero-tolerance in the area of rape, that a clear statement that it is unacceptable, and that a cross-political action plan that goes into that title, or the title, of the report of the Rape Committee, which came in 2008, was: ‘From word to action’. I think the report from the rape committee just describes the importance of a national action plan. It made clear recommendations, and we know that today there are nine out of twelve of the proposals that have not been followed up. It shows that we need to share responsibilities, to know who is responsible. We need our own budgets. We need deadlines for action. If you can make the obligatory, it will also be followed up. It could have been done through an action plan. Another point is prevention. You have to get better sexual guidance and accountability for boys as to where the boundaries go. This must be done at school, and, as many people have been involved, it must be done in the reception of asylum. Immigrant settings and schools need to gain even more knowledge and introduction into precisely setting borders and equality. Then I believe that there must also be more research on moral convictions, so that one can gain more knowledge. A web portal should be established where it is both possible to search for information and to facilitate the notification process. So I'll quickly get into one more point, and that's that the conviction rate is significantly low. Rape is almost one of the safest crimes to do. 90 pst. is not notified, said the Rape Committee. Eight out of ten reviews are posted. It is serious that the victims do not experience that when they report, the rapist is also convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e624	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. We all agree that rape is cruel crime, and it robs the citizens of security and freedom to move around. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the representative Knutson Barstad from SV, who says that it is never the woman's fault, regardless of how she dresses, or whether she is drunk or not. But unfortunately, this does not all agree with us. I would also like to say that the Åse Michaelsen of the Progress Party was concerned with some unpleasant truths, and I must praise her in order to be ready and have an honest speech. We must dare to talk about the difficult things as well. But then we have to be careful to stigmatize an already weak group. It's not that all immigrants are potential rapists. There are a few extremely few who create great insecurity, and we have to be able to do something about it. A few years ago I had a week at P4, "Michael Directe", and then I was out interviewing some immigrants on this topic. It was quite easy to get alarming attitudes on tape, talking about Norwegian women themselves being responsible for their rape – because of the way they dressed. They had a woman's vision that we haven't quite understood in Norway. We have to dry this, dare, talk about it. The Progress Party has sometimes been out driving when they say that we need to stop the asylum seekers coming to Norway and that asylum seekers are responsible for the rapes. Then we're on the wrong track. We have to get into the right track. We must be able to call a spade a spade, but nevertheless be able to keep the dignity of asylum seekers. In fact, there are children born in Norway who grow up and become rapists. Then we haven't succeeded as a society. We have to be able to do something about that. It's not least about equality and women's vision. In VG 6 November this year, I invited the then Minister of Justice, Knut Storberget, to address this, to do something about the attitudes of immigrants. I invited him to make an attitude-changing campaign, to direct an open invitation to imams and immigrant leaders, to invite them in to give them a mandate to go out and talk about equality and women's vision. He didn't have time to get hold of this. That is why I am now sending this ball over to the current Minister of Justice. I would like to contribute in this area if the Minister of Justice wants to take that ball. Rape, which I was about, is about attitudes and mentality, and not least about men's attitudes towards women. Here, too, men themselves must stand as a good example. It is about changing the distorted view of women that exists in some environments. There are many immigrant families who are not afraid to address these problems at the dinner table, because they are not used to discussing this with their children. Sex talk with children, which may not be so unusual in Norwegian ethnic homes, is not so common in non-ethnic Norwegian homes in Norway. We also need to talk about this. Not least, it does not actually serve the case of immigrants that there are so many who are represented as a percentage of the assault statistics. It helps to undermine integration, and it helps to make it even more difficult for Muslims in Norway that there are so many who are overrepresented in assault statistics. We have to do something about this. The Minister of Justice was about to set up an interministerial working group to create a separate action plan. That's a good idea. However, I wonder why what has already been promoted in the 2008 NOU, from the Rape Committee, is not already being taken into account and implements the proposals that have been put forward there. It must also be allowed for a Council of State to admit that the systems have not done enough to prevent and resolve all types of rape. There are many types of rape. When we hear about rapes, we forget that the majority of rapes in Norway are not rapes – they are rapes in close relationships, they are after-game rapes, they are rapes, but they are even more serious rapes, like gang rapes. It must be allowed for a government council to admit that we have not done enough in this field. Then I disagree with the Council of State that it would not be particularly appropriate to create a separate unit, as the chairman of the rape committee, Rita Deletener from the Left, suggested, SEPOL. I think raising the achievement of resolving this crime will have something to do with it. We know that there are a lot of good police officers who want to work on murder cases and org. Krim cases, and we also have to make it prestigious for them to work on resolving the rape cases. I should like to say something about the signals to be sent from Stortinget, which the representative of Bohemia was in, to the courts, but as we know, the government doesn't even take signals from the Stortinge pulpit, so I think we have to do it in the form of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e650	I want to start by thanking the representative Tetzschner for addressing this serious issue in Stortinget. That being said, I think it was a strange parallel interpellant that brought up in its follow-up post. He said that the work against a more equal society, which expanded the paper industry, has gone at the expense of combating rape. This government manages well to have two thoughts, yes indeed more thoughts, in its head at the same time. In the last few months, we have seen that the capital has been affected by several rapes. Young women on their way home from town are being assaulted and raped. This is unacceptable. Many fears of going home alone late in the evening, and ordering a taxi for an address at night have also offered problems. Rape is one of the most traumatic abuses a human being can experience. Many women feel the insecurity when they travel in the city late in the evening. I have heard stories about girls who have been assaulted and tried to rape on their way home, who naturally also struggle with fear and uncertainty. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget announced in the summer a social promise against rape. The police cannot do the work of combating rape alone. It is important to further develop and coordinate comprehensive efforts between the police, the municipality and the public, private and voluntary sectors. It is about a series of measures, such as lighting and creating safe urban spaces by everyone taking responsibility. Before the summer, a number of measures were proposed by the Oslo Labour Party to safeguard the urban environment, including: lighting and cutting vegetation in areas where there is little traffic and more visibility is needed. This was supported. It shows that measures can also be taken by the municipality and that a broad focus is also important from the Oslo City Council. But it is important to stress that this is not just a capital problem. Tromsø, Tynset and Ålesund — to name a few — have also experienced attacks recently, and these have been reported. Now we are approaching the Christmas table, and it is announced that next weekend will be a busy weekend for the outdoor industry – and then again for the police. We know that an increase in alcohol consumption also leads to an increase in violence. The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad was involved in this in his article. The Christian People's Party sits in the City Council of Oslo and can tighten the time of gift, if they want to. But they gave up the gift periods to gain power. So the Christian People's Party has to decide what they actually mean. In Stavanger, a systematic effort has reduced the incidence of seizures, which many have experienced here. Many non-governmental organisations have committed themselves here, and this has led to a change in the mood of the inhabitants of Stavanger, where everyone was involved in contributing to a safer city. We must all take responsibility for our common security. The police can do a lot, but the most important prevention effort is the one we can all do every day. In Stavanger, consciousness and information, among other things, more attentively through the media, which has also contributed to the dramatic decline in the number of assaults in Stavanger. Preventing assault violence must be our main focus. Among other things, it is about punishing assaults more severely, proving better, clarifying more and giving better help and follow-up to the victims. The government has increased the penalty level, the DNA reform has been implemented, and several thousand policemen have been trained in evidence protection. A separate investigation team has been established at Kripos, and rape facilities have been established across the country. I want to commend the Oslo police to take the rape wave seriously. It is important that biological material sent to the Institute of Public Health be treated promptly. In the very serious cases of assaults, DNA evidence is processed in a separate process, and there are examples of such analyses being carried out at about a point in time. One day. The capacity to carry out the studies is good, but the challenge is that in many of the cases there is no biological material or that the biological material is of insufficient quality. It is important that, in the future, the police give priority to securing the tracks quickly and forwarding any evidence to the Public Health Institute as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e673	Of course, when you get so far into the debate, many good points have come from many speakers. I would particularly like to refer to the article that my colleague Åse Michaelsen had earlier in the debate. The situation we have had in Oslo this fall is an entirely unsustainable situation, a situation that is not worthy of Oslo as a city or of Norway as a country. Something must be seriously wrong in a city when we have such a large amount of rapes. As several speakers here have said, assault is one of the most humiliating and unworthy ways in which we humans can act against other people. It's totally unacceptable, and I'm glad that there's consensus in the Storting about it. But the big debate is about how we are going to counteract this, and what action is going to be taken. Obviously, we have to do something wrong, and the measures that have been put in place must be inadequate. I wish you could be more open from the red-green side to discuss that side. Now that we have got a new Minister of Justice, I am therefore, having heard her comments, surprised that she does not have any more concrete measures that she wants to profile herself on and put into a situation like this. Abuse is about lack of attitudes toward women. It is a serious social problem and shows that we have challenges beyond the situation that has now been concrete. It gives us a long-term challenge that we need to put a clear and clear strategy to solve. It is about information to young people, it is about information to the general population, but we also need to be able to have a debate on the size of the foreign cultural population in a city like Oslo. In connection with this situation, the Oslo police have now deployed a stronger presence. We can do that as we travel in the city every day, notice. On Plata, in front of Oslo S, there's a significant number of cops. I walk by there twice a day, and I count five–six police cars every time I go by. You can see clear results from that. The senior patrol, who has been at Karl Johan for a while, is a very positive action that obviously produces good results. The Council of State stated in its statement that since 4 November, the number of patrol officers has doubled. But I have to say that in the debate we have had around the resources of the police, it is strange to me that the police can invest as much resources as they have obviously not had before. What is the point of investing large resources in a small period of time? You should have these resources – when you obviously have them available – out all the time, so that you can avoid these kinds of situations that we have had now. Then I want a clear answer as to whether the Oslo police have the resources they need, or not. The Courts have an important role to play in using the criminal framework that we have adopted. The size of this type of offence increased significantly in 2010, and there was a new practice in the fact that the Storting entered the pre-workers and clearly defined the level of penalties. There was the use of minimum penalties, as the Progress Party has pointed out for a long time should be an important measure, but the judges protested against it. What would have been the situation in terms of criminal prosecution if the judges had been able to get through so as not to use minimum penalties?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e697	I want to commend the interpellant for addressing a very important topic, and at the right time. First of all, let me also say that there is every reason to pay tribute and homage to the efforts the police make within the framework of the police. Then I notice – to the extent of a certain surprise – that the interpellant's posts are also interpreted in such a way that, on the part of the government parties, one goes into the defence position. It surprises me. I actually thought this topic was so important that here you had to be open to hear all the good recordings and views with an open mind, and be willing to look at all the opportunities to grasp this and to reduce the problem. The 2008 rape sample is mentioned by several. Unfortunately, we can see that many of the measures have not been put into practice and that a new action plan has recently been promoted by the Council of State, to which we should of course have great expectations and which is a positive action in itself. But it's also important to remember that when we're going to address a topic like this, we need to have a broader perspective. Stavanger's experience has taught us a lot. The Judicial Committee has visited the police there and has been well-informed in its experience. The broad mobilisation, the visible police, the good cooperation and dialogue with the immigrant communities, the use of new technology and, not least, a broad local commitment that in total has produced a good result, make women and men in Stavanger feel safer than they were in the past. But in order to do that, we rely on the authorities to take the necessary initiatives, facilitate the situation and make resources available. Taking advantage of the possibilities to a greater extent than we may have seen so far is one of the main messages of the Right – the fact that the police are present when the need is greater. It's going to be pretty difficult, and at least challenging for the police, when we see that in most police districts, 21 out of 27, the police coverage goes down. We from the Right have suggested several times on the use of police resources by making better use of police seniors, and by converting the use of civil servants in the police to release police force. We've been voted down. We also have to look at the investigation page. We need to open up to greater capacity and faster analytical results in the field of DNA – where one encounters dogmatic resistance to using private, good, validated services in that area. I would also like to mention in that context what the legal profession points to, that the law of the applicable criminal law may not be good enough to meet this – let's use the word – ‘adequate’ way of justice. So the theme is important. Oslo's hit hard. We all have a considerable responsibility to lift this up to secure the capital, and the capital's women in particular, better in such a situation. Again: Thanks to the interpellant. The issues that have been received by the majority parties as a possible criticism from the inter-pellant or from the Right-wing speakers in this pulpit, I really hope to be interpreted constructively from the fact that we want to solve a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e716	All the honors of Tetzschner who discuss this important theme in Stortinget, but I also have to say that I am a bit stunned by talking down the paperwork – where did it belong at home? It was probably just a depression. There has been a large increase in the number of rapes. It's worried us all, and it's made many people afraid to walk in Oslo's streets. Of course it can't be like that. The interpellant has challenged the Minister of Justice on what she will do to combat the rapes, especially in Oslo. I believe that the Council of State gave good, constructive and concrete answers to what has been done and what needs to be done in the future. There are more people who have shown up to Stavanger. It is natural that the Justice Committee was visiting there earlier this fall. The information we got there about how they got rid of the assaults is important to take it further. As many people have experienced, they succeeded because they recognized that the police alone could not solve these challenges. There was a combination of mobilising and mobilising the good forces to work together — from taxi industry, night trips, night work, night work, door security, rape services to migrant services have combined to address the problems. Of course, police work, such as investigation and investigation, has been of great importance, but also a targeted attitude-building work and awareness-raising among people most of the time to follow up on what is happening in the cityscape, has produced results. Something else was that the media also played an important role. They actually used the slot space to go deeper into the issues rather than just making tabloid headlines. So this work gave results that many people have shown. Fortunately, many in Oslo are also engaged, cf. what Jan Bøhler was into. That's good, and it shows that many people care. But I have to say that in all this commitment I was a little disappointed by the political leadership in Oslo when it stood on at worst earlier this fall. Fortunately, it has corrected itself a little, but when it stormed at the worst, the council was more concerned with criticising the government and calling for more police in the streets, rather than taking action itself. Of course, the police are important. Everyone agrees. But, as I said, they cannot solve all the problems alone. That is why I am very pleased that Tetzschner now says that Oslo must learn from Stavanger. Another aspect of the debate is the timing of donations. According to new research by SIRUS, 1 hour earlier closure of the alcohol taps will reduce the violence rate by 17 pst. Such a reduction in tipping times would mean that the police could spend less time on full-time people making trouble in the streets, and more time on, for example, the rape problem. I also hope that Tetzschner will pass this on to his party traps in Oslo. There's been a lot of talk about men with a non-Western background committing the rapes, and they're probably overrepresented in terms of the rapes in Oslo. I think we should look at specific measures in that context. However, it is important to have an overall picture when we talk about rapists, because in the rape statistics we find that the vast majority of those who rape are white men — often some who know the victims. Personally, I believe that awareness-raising is the most important thing to prevent rape. I myself have a great sense of the proposal that Gunhild Dahlberg, chronicler in Dagbladet, launched earlier this fall, and as she called «The Sexual School Bag». Her proposal was that sexual education in school should be much more than reproductive, contraception and gender diseases. Education must be more about sexual morality, what is acceptable behavior, and that a no is a no. Of course, people who come to Norway from other countries must receive the same education in the municipalities they live in. We have to admit that the main reason for the rape of girls and women is the view of some boys and men. That's what we only change with mind-creating work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e737	I'm also going to give the interpellant some brilliance because he's taken up this theme in the staging room. It's very important. But then I wonder – and he shouldn't have boasted about it – what really happened at the beginning of the article? Not only was the paperwork the reason we haven't done anything more with elective wave, but it was also one of the reasons why we still have electoral marches here in the country. And then I just have to remind the representative Tetzschner that the Right actually voted in favour of that proposal. Just so it's said. We have come a long way after several weeks of electoral debate. We've finally been given a broader understanding that selection is not about the victim. Elections are never about the victim's behaviour, dress, location or rush, and there was no indication that it was the climate of debate. It was also not the climate of debate a little over a month ago, when we started talking about this. Elections begin in the head of an attacker who seems to steal access to another human being is okay. As a politician, you can never right yourself: Like a girl, be careful not to go home alone, watch how full you are, watch what you have on you! Maybe you can call someone on the way home? Maybe you can take a cab? Such privatisation of security control is not a politician worth it. Advice for girls about dress code, where and when we're going, there's no place home in a election debate. We girls, we can think for ourselves. We don't need advice, we need action. Election is a tragedy for the victims, the family of theirs, and the closest. There's no doubt about it. Elections not only provide the safety of the victim, but the security of society as a whole. From that security an up our freedom, the freedom to stand and walk in the public space, when, what time and where it had to be. Unfree human beings are not safe. This frames not only those who are on their way home, but also those who are on their way to work before it gets bright in the morning. Assault warrants are overrepresented among those who are new in our country. Relationship selection tests are carried out in an obese manner by ethnic Norwegians. We cannot close anyone out or inside for that reason. The donation has come into the debate. To that I just have to say that I don't think beer makes someone a referee. That's the hold that's doing. For me, it is difficult to see that limiting the timing by 1 hour will get potential electors on better thoughts. We have to change people's postures. In schools, in workplaces, in asylum receptions, in bicycle clubs, in teams and associations, and in religious communities, we must have a thorough and ongoing discussion of what kind of attitudes we should have in our society. Intervention prevention must enter the school. In addition, much more so than today, we need to focus on it in the introduction programme. Together, we must demand space for the debate that we must always take another time, which we must always take later. There are people in this country who don't even know they picked someone. We need to be able to discuss actions for the next weekend and next generation at the same time. It's ours, society's responsibility to make the streets and homes safe. When I say society, I mean state, municipality, county municipality and individual people in all the different roles we have in life. We cannot accept that the inhabitants are becoming insecure, leaving each woman and man alone. Then the government has to do its job. What kind of measures have been put in place both in the short and long term, the Minister of Justice has done well in a brilliant way. Oslo Municipality has reacted, and people in Oslo have taken responsibility and walked in the streets. We should discuss why putting concrete acute measures in place locally so far. It is well inside Bergen, too, where the party of the representative Michaelsen, who called for urgent action, is in charge. After more than a month of debate, where we have the opportunity to prevent the election campaign, the City Council in Bergen has today said that they will have light on some of the dark cities. We need to create better local awareness of concrete prevention measures. The city space must review some changes to make selections unwelcome. We have to clean up the bush and the forest, we have to get some light where it's dark, and those who are already guests in the city room when it's dark – taxi drivers, nightlife, securita shifts and adding them to the daily kiosks – should have the opportunity to deliver responsibilities and get common meeting places where they can report on proposals for how we can solve the common challenge we have. Our common weapon in the fight against electoral rule is that everyone has to do what they can where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e758	Rape is one of the worst things that a human being can be exposed to. It's one of the absolutely worst flaws for a human being. Both men and women are subjected to this abuse, but there are, however, women who represent the absolute majority in the case of victims. A site between 8000 and 16000 is subject to rape each year. A rape can mean a ruined life. The vast majority of women are raped by their partner or one she knows well. These men have a woman's vision that goes back to the Stone Age. A civilised society has to take this seriously. We can't live with so many women being subjected to this downgrading. Rape, as many before me have described, is a very serious violation of the integrity of a human being. It gets worse when the woman is raped when she least expects it – the so-called assaults. Then comes the shock and fear, as well as all that belongs to a rape. These men are alien elements in our society and in our time. Mentally, they belong to a period of history in which man could not distinguish good from bad. Justice and morality are the greatest difference between animals and humans. Here, the framework for action needs to be extended. Men cannot take responsibility for other men's black deeds, but we men must engage more in the social debate. After all, there are men who rape. I've got three boys. Two of them are at the age when it's right to talk to them about this serious issue. I have. This conversation requires more people to bring their sons, their brothers, their comrades, etc. From the government and from the Storting, we have put in place many good and accurate measures to prevent, investigate and punish this crime. In short, I would like to mention a strengthened police budget, an increase in the penalties for rape, the establishment of family violence coordinators in 100 p.m. position in all police districts, police teams in major police districts working on prevention, excluding police districts from paying test costs for DNA, setting up special posts, etc. I'm a little surprised by the criticism that comes from some people. The level of precision must certainly be a little better than that if the representative has been involved in adopting these measures. However, when you say that there has been no focus on this, I am a little surprised. Stavanger has been mentioned several times. Good job, Stavanger! Then I cannot understand the logic if you believe that the government has succeeded in Stavanger and not in Oslo. Then there's something missing, and what's missing is in Oslo. Then my question is back to the representative Michael Tetzschner, who is actually the head of the Oslo Right, who has the head of the City Council: Is the Municipality of Oslo willing to enter the debate? Is Oslo municipality e.g. Will to limit the turnaround time by 1 hour, if not otherwise to get the police force that we can get out of 1 hour every day, not least on weekends, throughout the year, and use it to investigate just rapes in all kinds of contexts? What has the Municipality of Oslo done to expand and strengthen the bulwark control of excessive intoxication? How many checks have been carried out? Is the Municipality of Oslo willing to look at its raging policy regarding the taxi industry? One is very concerned about increasing the status of those who work in the police, but what about increasing the status of one of the most important industries in the city when it comes to preventing rape — taxi drivers and taxi owners? Now there are actually so many taxis in town that you don't get a good enough income, and so you find other jobs, the ones that can do it. We get others, who get no other job, into the taxi industry – so the status has dropped in the taxi industry. The best town councillor could tell the other day was that he could imagine expanding the taxi park in Oslo. Are these measures the best that can come from Oslo Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e773	To the previous speaker, I would like to say that Mr Chaudhry's representative must know about the division of labour between the state and the municipality and that it is the State of the Minister of Justice who is responsible for the fight against crime in the field of justice. That is what we are discussing today. Otherwise, I have also noticed that the police officer in Oslo is not actually that positive to the so-called Stavanger model. He says that the numbers are disturbed by the fact that in Stavanger a very limited number of perpetrators were caught, and thus the problem was solved. So implicitly, he was not interested in entering into that model, but he could probably have a dialogue with his employer and the sector's manager about it. I'm not going to go into that. I think it was a little disappointing to hear that the Council of State was so very happy when the number of reviews went up. If we stop at that statement a little bit: it has to be because all the increase would write from a transition from darkness. I have a feeling that it's not research or statistical. If there's only one extra review that's real, and all the others come from the darkness, there's nevertheless an increase that goes in the wrong direction, and that means we're in an upward trend, where other cities are able to bring down their crime trends in this area. Bohemian said that it was great with these shippers and mobilizing citizens in actions – and the Night Roads we are for all of us. But I have to say that such a serious area of society as combating crime cannot be dependent on citizens joining in actions. There will also be symbol politics. We also saw that the police joined the actionists' ranks, by suddenly having a very good police coverage. Then you can ask yourself, ‘Why can’t you maintain this good police coverage beyond these parties — so-called — when you show the press that you really do something? ’ Then my challenge to the Council of State – which comes after me – will be: Could it not be a beginning to say that it is excellent with all these strategies, evaluations and interministerial cooperation, it will certainly happen and add up a lot in the departments, but what matters to security, as it is perceived in the city, is that there are patrolling people out there – patrolling police, living people – to which you can turn, and with a clear address that you should not try if you have bad intentions. Furthermore, my challenge to the Council of State: Can it not just be a first step to say that we are going back to the 1987 level, that we are going to double the police force in the cities – in Oslo, where the population has risen by 130 000 in these years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e786	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. The interpellant has raised a very important question. All forces in this area need to work together to combat rape, to improve knowledge and quality and, if necessary, to increase capacity. A number of budgetary issues have been raised. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that in the budget debate tomorrow. But let me come back to a few questions that have been up. Among other things, several have mentioned DNA samples and our capacity for this. In priority cases, DNA samples can be answered within 24 hours, so it's not right that this takes weeks. And as I have explained, we now have good capacity for analysis. There are also more people who have come into contact with the attackers – and who they are. I have looked at the rape rates in Oslo and found the following: The perpetrators, suspects and convictions of rapes in Oslo on 1 November 2011 total 134 unique persons. Of these, 79 have Norwegian citizenship, 55 are foreign citizens. The 2010 rape report of the Oslo Police District states: ‘For all types of rape other than rape, European perpetrators are in majority, most of which are Norwegian. However, the attacks concern only 5 identified, unique individuals. These have foreign origins’ — however, the number is so low that there is no basis for drawing conclusions on land background — ‘but 2 were very young [[less than 18 years]] It is highlighted in the report that gross generalizations of the fact that Oslo's rapists are foreigners are wrong. I think it is right to clarify this in the light of the discussion that has gone on. Of course, in terms of prevention and awareness raising, the police will have a very central role and do a lot, but we also depend on good cooperation with school, around borderline setting, around what is acceptable behaviour, and cooperation with newly arrived immigrants and, of course, with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e806	With that, the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e820	The Judicial Committee has dealt with Prop. 125 L for 2010–2011 on amendments to the Public Health Act. The Government has submitted a proposal for changes to the Public Health Act to allow exemptions from the transparency of two new categories of information. It relates to birth numbers and similar identification numbers, and to payroll duties if the transparency of the gross payments is given by other means. This is justified by two factors. One is to take into account the increasing level of identity theft and, in the case of wage-earning tasks, that there has been a significant requirement for transparency in this type of information, which has led to a heavy burden on the administration and has also led to significant demarcation of what can be done publicly and not publicly. The Committee has unanimously agreed to the Government's proposal. The Committee points out the importance of identity thefts, of which we have seen a growing number, and it also supports the exemption from the transparency of pay duties as long as gross wage payments and other remuneration are transparent.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e831	It's a unanimous attitude from the committee, so I'm not going to spend much time. We have gathered on support for the government's proposals under the good management of the case rapporteur and through a good process. When I take the floor, it is short and good to highlight some important input the committee has received from the Norwegian Press Association and Norwegian Editors' Association respectively. On the right-hand side, we've read those recordings with considerable interest. However, when we choose to go ahead of the government's proposals as they exist, it is short and well on the grounds of limiting the increasing level of identity thefts we see in Norway. Recently, statistics have been published to show that there are as many as 124 000 Norwegians who have experienced identity thefts in the last two years, mainly due to personal identity numbers, and identity thefts have been used for criminal purposes. It's serious. It's serious for the people involved, of course, and it's a general social problem, and it's increasing. To the right, it has been important to use it when balancing what is a common, cross-political objective: to ensure both governance considerations and transparency, but at the same time to limit the development of crime. It's an explanation from the right-hand side of the story in relation to the recordings we've received in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e840	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted. [[See page 1039]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e869	The Committee has considered Prop. 137 LS for 2010–2011, which deals with a change in the arrest warrant law. The legislative proposal was sent out at a wide consultation of the Ministry on 22 December 2009. Those who have spoken are generally in favour of the amendments. The Advocate General states that both the Nordic Convention and the parallel agreement should be an important contribution to a more effective follow-up to cross-border crime. The police directorate is in the same direction, and the police districts that have expressed themselves are also consistently in favour of the amendments. That is why the Committee unanimously supports the proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e874	This is also a matter where the committee agrees, and not to pluck out today's meeting, but from the Right we find reason to stress just a few things. This is an important matter. Crime is becoming increasingly borderless, and we need to make the necessary cross-border adjustments in order to become more effective internationally in the fight against crime. This is further reinforced by the economic turmoil we are now experiencing in Europe, which is likely, or likely, to increase criminal activity across borders. That is why this is an important and good thing in that perspective. The second and last element on the Right, which was the background to my asking for the floor, was that in this case too, we must keep an eye on the development of legal certainty in Europe, so that, when we are to make these adjustments, and open up to move criminals across borders in the interest of the rule of law, we do not lose sight of the perspective of legal certainty. We must respect our principles and follow what is happening in Europe, so that this element is and will be maintained at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e883	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Votation, see pages 1040 and 1048]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e899	The first speaker is Anna Ljunggren, on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e902	I am delighted to have the case-rapporteur's speech in this debate, as the representative of Stine Renate Håheim, who was originally the case-rapporteur, has changed the committee. The proposal we are discussing today comes from representatives of the Progress Party and deals with changes to the Law of the Court of Justice on the prohibition of photo of insults and relatives. There is consensus in the Committee on the importance of transparency in criminal matters and that this needs to be balanced with regard to the protection of insults and relatives. The press has an important responsibility through the ethical regulations of the press, including: established: be careful with the use of names and images and other clear identification marks in criminal and judicial reports. Show particular consideration for matters under investigation and for cases involving young offenders. Refuse identification when not necessary to satisfy legitimate information requirements. The press thus has an internal ethical guide, and we can expect it to be followed. Changes to the photo prohibition in the courts have been dealt with several times, and the photo prohibition was extended both in terms of the situation and personality by decision of the criminal law § 390(c), but the provision did not come into force, nor was it passed in the Penal Code 2005. The criticism of Section 390(c) of the Penal Code was primarily directed towards the extension of the situations to which the photo prohibition was to apply and not the extension of that category of persons. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the SV and the Centre share the proposalers’ intention to protect offended and relatives in criminal matters, but believe that the proposal raises so fundamental a question that a more thorough process has been achieved. The issue of photo bans could be considered in the context of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection and Control of Violence against Women and Violence in Close Relations. Work on a complete revision of the Court Act will start in 2011 and the issue of a photo prohibition will be seen here in the context of other proposals affecting the public in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e913	This case has two important aspects. One is the transparency of the judicial system, and the other is the consideration of those involved in legal proceedings. We need great transparency in the judicial system – that is the way the public and the public can control the courts. We're going to have open courtrooms, and we're going to be able to get both radio and television transmissions from courtrooms over time. It sees the Progress Party as an important step forward in developing the transparency we are going to have in the Norwegian legal system. What this is also about is the consideration of those involved in legal proceedings. Now it is the case that the defendant and the convicted in a court case have a great protection, since it is not allowed to take pictures of them either in the courtroom or on the way to and from the courtroom. The Norwegian press has now been very good in most cases to take account of that part of what is legal, and they have also been good at taking into account the victims and possibly relatives. But we've seen some glitches in this. We saw it, among other things. in the Alvdal case, where the press went a long way in conveying news and a lot of information from the courtroom, which was a burden for both victims and relatives in that case. The reason why we are presenting this bill is simply that victims and relatives should be entitled to the same protection in legal proceedings as a court or tribunal. When it comes to protecting one's sight and judgment against exposure in the media, we believe that victims and relatives should have the same legal certainty, the same opportunity to be protected, and not get images lubricated in the media when involved in legal proceedings. We appreciate that an overall committee sees the need to protect the offended and the victims and the relatives, and that they then signal the need for a photo ban. When the majority say that it is not necessary to introduce it now, but that we should have a review of the court law on a later occasion, the Progress Party believes it is unsustainable. Most laws are constantly undergoing evaluations, and changes are being made in line with social developments. Now we have a social development that goes in the direction of getting a more tabloidized press, and then the Progress Party believes it is time for us to make such a small change in the court law so that we can safeguard the interests, legal certainty and security of offended, victims and relatives in legal proceedings. Of course, the Progress Party will maintain its proposal, and I also hope that the majority in the Chamber will take these signals and see the need for us now to make such a change, on behalf of victims and relatives. Then, on a later occasion, when we're going to have a greater review of the law, we can see whether it's going to be revised in any way, or whether the proposal, as it says now, can carry forward. So the Progress Party maintains its proposal, and we hope that the Storting will participate in and make that change, for the benefit of victims and relatives. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e928	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1048]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e946	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e955	The Judicial Committee has examined a proposal from a number of representatives from the Right to combat so-called one-percent MC clubs. Representatives have promoted a number of proposals relating to this issue. The proposers mention as justification for the proposal that the so-called one-percent MC clubs constitute significant crime and are part of so-called organised criminal groups. The Justice Committee has recently had a number of opportunities to discuss and debate this issue. Several issues related to this have been addressed. There has been an interpellation on the issue, and the Justice Committee examined the communication on organised crime before the summer, where this was a significant topic, and where the Stortinge was then united in its call for these environments to be combated by the instruments available. There is no doubt that these environments represent a significant crime related to drug trafficking, extortion, torpedoing, etc. – one of the most serious crimes we have in society. The work of the police also shows that about all the full members of these clubs are convicted of significant serious crime. It shows the seriousness of the situation, and that it is important to send out as a signal to young people who view these environments as attractive, to enter these environments, is the danger of entering into serious criminal activity at the same time. The Police Directorate has drawn up an action plan for these environments, which I personally believe is a good action plan, which provides a clear policy on how to deal with these environments. This has also been pointed out by the Committee in its position on the notification of organised crime. But as a party representative, I would like to point out the need for the police across the country to have an equal approach to these environments. We saw when Hells Angels recently had a European meeting in Oslo, that the police in Oslo had a different approach to this environment than the police in Stavanger, for example. has had earlier collections. I would also like to say that I reacted to the media's presentation of this meeting. The impression was that these people were Sunday schoolboys on their way to the church on Sunday morning. The press must be conscious of its responsibility, so that these environments are not presented in any other way than as they really are. The right, as I mentioned, has promoted a number of proposals, and the Progress Party has joined part of them. I am therefore addressing the proposals that the Progress Party shares with the Right in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e970	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has then addressed the proposals he referred to. Mr. Representative: I have to say that the representative is considerably younger than the president, and his image of Sunday school students on the way to church is slightly different than the President's image is. But it could be because of the age difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e975	It is true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that in this case of MC crime, we have had very good cooperation throughout the committee. We have had good initiatives, thanks to representatives who have a local background in their municipalities, where they have experienced a lot in terms of MC crime. I refer to the representative who will have the floor after me, Anders B. Werp from the Right, and Thor Lillehovde from the Workers' Party, who has been an alternate in the Committee for a long time. It also makes this case bear the mark of a lot of consensus. The government parties have gone in and supported the proposals on building an interaction with the municipalities, and we have gone into the proposal on informants, and that we need to discuss the issue in Stortinget next year. We were also together about this when we dealt with the big bang message on organized crime. There is something that is somewhat unclear about the proposals here, and I would like to point out, and ask the Progress Party about. On page two of the setting it says – and then you have joined with the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party on the note: ‘In order to present its work to the Ministry of Justice’ — i.e. the Committee on Arms Law — ‘by 1 December 2011, this majority considers it natural to await the examination of proposals IV to VI for the conclusion of the sample.’ When you look at the IV-VI proposals on the first page, the V and VI proposals on weapons that have been sealed are, of course, the V and VI proposals on weapons. But when you look at the overview of how the proposals are being promoted, the Progress Party is, together with the Right, on the proposals relating to this. We are in favour of the intention of the proposals, but we believe that we should have a proper investigation of them in the Armaments Committee and get them to the Stortinget. So I'm going to ask the Progress Party why there's no match between the comment they've gone into, and the way they've sorted the proposals. But, as I said, we are positive about the whole of the draft document. I just want to comment on something more that the committee is working on around MC crime, which was in the notification of organised crime. I think it's important, what we've seen in these criminal one percent MC environments, that they now have sub-groups – allied groups that do a lot of crime by themselves – and it's more difficult to take the main characters. They have set up something called the AK team – always a clear team – in some cities in Norway. They have something called Street Crew, which is something like that. They do have 32 other clubs that they protect, that serve them. That means that in order to take the principals – the heaviest criminals in these one percent environments – we have to persecute them in more ways than before. I believe then that the angle of ecocrime when it comes to money laundering, pursuing VAT fraud, tax evasion and property speculation – this type of crime in the one percent environment – is important in order to be able to go after the principals. Among other things, we saw: in the case of the ‘B’ gang in Oslo — which was not a MC gang but a heavy replication environment — that it was the approach that eventually gave a breakthrough. I would also like to say about the points we worked on in the communication on organised crime in these environments, that there are a few other points that are crucial and that are not mentioned in this draft document. This concerns the extension of the section on organised crime – §60a. Getting convicted in these environments after the paragraph on organised crime has proved to be complicated. For example, the police have tried it four times in the case of the former President of Hells Angels in Norway. Claims of organised crime have been made under Section 60(a) but have not been passed through the court. This is because certain demands have been made for the duration and structure and almost governing meetings in organised criminal environments in order to make use of this paragraph. We have pointed out in the discussion of the notification of organised crime that it should be made more flexible, and amendments to it should be promoted – as the government also suggested in the notification of organised crime. Then you'll be able to hit these organized criminal environments harder, as well as the backers. The same applies to the proposal to revise the measurement parameters of the police that we dealt with in the communication on organised crime, because complex cooperation between police districts to address these organised environments will not be so easily reflected in the actual number of drug cases, the number of traffic cases, etc. in the police districts. So we need measurement parameters that take into account that the police have to work long and concentrated, spend a lot of resources on these types of environments – continue that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e997	Let me just make it clear that we're talking about the one percent MC environment here, we're not talking about the 99 pst. other actors in the MC environment who are positive operators of an interest in motorcycles. Here we are talking about the one percent that Kripos refers to as the best organized and fastest growing organized criminal networks in Norway. It's serious. In the opinion of the undersigned, we are talking here about a shadow society, about the emergence of a shadow society that sits above democracy. They have their own legislative, judicial and executive bodies in one percent clubs. They have a view of women that is represented by the fact that the highest status a woman can have in, for example: The Outlaws MC Club, which is a one-percent club, is like the property of the club, not as a member. The paper on the fight against organised crime and the Police Directorate's action plan against the one-percent environment is a very good basis for debate on this issue. It has done a good job politically and politically. However, when the Right chooses to promote a proposal for a representative on this topic, it is because we are taking developments, what we see in all of Norway now, seriously. This environment is growing, and there are very many municipalities that now see these environments in different ways in their neighbourhoods. We have to take that seriously. It underlines precisely what we debated in depth in the context of the Single European Act on the fight against organised crime, namely the broad effort and good cooperation between public bodies, governmental bodies, municipalities and business. By focusing on the role of municipalities in proposal I, we have made that perspective visible. Earlier this year, the Justice Committee visited The Hague, Europol. Then it was nice, as representatives from Norway, to hear the good report and the rose that Europol gave to the work of the police in Norway, represented by Kripos at home, doing in the fight against one percent of the environments. Therefore, it is also surprising to see that no greater use is made of the capacity and resource of Kripos to combat the one percent environment. It surprised the representatives from the Right when we heard at the hearing in the case that Kripos was assigned 10,000 hours of surveillance from the Oslo Police District to conduct his own investigation against organized crime, but only spent 100 of the 10,000 hours. From this pulpit, I'm not going to contribute to any speculation as to why it is, but when we propose to give Kripos increased operational capacity, it's just to emphasise that we want to use the capacity, knowledge and competence that Kripos possess to combat these environments. We also propose that we strengthen the information and witness protection, and this is based on thought-provoking examples from the national lawyer on serious drug issues withdrawn from the Norwegian courts of the national lawyer, for the sake of the safety of the witnesses. We also propose changes to the Arms Act, both on the introduction and registration of explosives, and we propose action to limit arms cards for members of the one percent environment. We do that to signal that once you have made a choice to support the one percent environment, it has a social impact, among other things. know that you are not allowed to have weapons. Right-wing thanks for the support we have experienced in the committee by now getting a unanimous vote on two of our proposals. We think it's important, and it's positive. It's going to lead to good results, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1020	A lot of the crime we have in our country is so-called petty crime and everyday crime – if one can use this kind of crime – a type of crime that creates insecurity, irritation, and that costs society a lot in total, but perhaps cannot be defined as serious. What is troubling about crime is the so-called percentage of the MC club, that he spreads around, happens more frequently and more often, and that it becomes a more serious and serious form of crime that occurs on ‘quarters’ as well. We named the police in Stavanger in the interpellation debate we had in place, and commended them for their good efforts against assault warrants. In this case, too, we can look at Rogaland Police District. There they have implemented targeted actions with good results. They have not seen the role of the police in detecting and clarifying MC crime, but they have cooperated with other important actors as well. They point to the management track, as one can use as part of a larger and collect effort against MC bands. Foreign law, alcohol laws, planning and building laws, police laws, police regulations, arms laws, road traffic laws, etc. They consider how important it is that municipalities have a strategy against this environment, and I must say that it is particularly positive that KS has addressed this issue. This brings me to one of many good arguments to maintain a strong neighbourhood police force in our long-range country. There is an important need for good convergence between the policies pursued at government level and those undertaken at local level. Cooperation between different local actors against MC crime needs to be improved in some places, but there is a local police force. Although one of the leading signs of organized crime is that it is cross-border, it is carried out in local communities. And then I'll go a little bit closer to one of the suggestions that the Committee is about, about better the protection of witnesses and informants. It goes without saying that witnesses and informers have to be confident that, as far as possible, they can be anonymous. If they can't, they must be well protected. More needs to be provided with tips and information if more of this crime is to be detected. Unfortunately, many people who have information are insecure and afraid of reactions. Finally, I would like to point out that if you don't have that much time, the arms commission will be submitting an adjustment. There we will have an assessment of the need to possibly change the current law. I would like to stress that just weapons legislation is important as part of what we need to be aware of when we are going to prevent serious events, both from the environments we are talking about now and from individuals. But I think it's right to wait to conclude until we get this setting and get the opportunity to debate it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1033	I am pleased with this initiative from the Right. It is important to have good discussions on this topic both closely and frequently, and it is important to combat this type of crime. Therefore, it is fun for someone who is outside the committee and has been waiting for the vote, and when it comes, sees that there has been such thorough work in the committee. That is why I would like to congratulate those who have worked with it in particular, as well as the rapporteur-in-Office. It is important that this fight against organised crime is given priority, that crime be taken to heart before it gets stuck in the municipalities. That is why the proposals that the whole committee has accepted are very important. The proposal to provide better information and witnesses is important in order to ensure the safety of the individual who chooses to stand up. Hopefully that means that more people can stand up. I am also pleased with the Right clarification in the representative's posts, that this concerns 1 pst, not the 99 pst. other members. But really we should be able to talk about organized crime, not necessarily criminal MC gangs, because what the gangs do has very little to do with motorcycles. They don't have time to drive around on Harleyen or skim on their bikes. They're doing criminal activity. It's a little sad that the rumors of MC clubs are getting so bad, because everyone is easily put in a booth. That's why I think it's important to discuss such issues and to clarify them clearly. When Kripos sees them as the best organized and most growing criminal network in Norway, it requires active action. Extensive criminal activity that includes everything from drugs, gross violence and ransacks to threats, etc. is one of the many members convicted of. This is why, as I said, action is important; The Christian People's Party wishes to support the Committee in the unanimous proposals and also support the proposals No. 1-3 from the Progress Party and the Right. But we do not want to support the proposal No. 4 and 5, from the right. It is quite simple because we believe that, even if many measures are to be taken, it is wrong to take measures aimed at punishing everyone, on the basis of membership. We believe that such group thinking is wrong. We believe that each individual should have individual treatment, then there should also be a good basis for those involved in criminal activities to be denied a weapon request. I wonder how to control who is a member. Although of course there is good monitoring of these environments, there is still a scepticism about it. I see that there will be a review of the entire Arms Act later this year, and that is why I think that in that context one could possibly go into it. But our view is that it is not right to impose a penalty on the basis of membership, because everyone deserves individual treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1050	I have previously worked as a lawyer for six years and have seen this organized crime in close proximity. It's an extreme, brutal reality that's inside the organized criminal groups. It's extremely difficult things to get an overview of, not just for the defenders, but also for the police and the investigators. Even experienced investigators are struggling with this. It's resource-intensive, it's complex, there's a lot of threats, there's a lot of closed environments, and it's hard to go into this. There is no doubt about what has emerged here in the hall, that Kripos has a lot of combined competence in this field, both in terms of different methods developed, and in terms of crew, systematics and their experience in this field. They must be able to use much more than what is being done today. We know that there are some groups that stand for a lot of crime. They're not so many in numbers, but yet, even with the number they represent, they're able to carry out a lot of crime. This concerns everything from serious drug crime, threats, extortion, illegal weapons, fraud and, ultimately, killing. Only to mention a few examples of drugs: these are extremely difficult issues to solve, because they require long-term investigation, including, among other things, the use of amphetamines as a drug. telephone interception. There may be several thousand conversations that are being intercepted, and that need to be put into a system strategy in order to be able to do something about this. Then I was a little surprised when the representative from the Workers' Party, Jan Bøhler, said that they really agree with the proposals here, but they still do not choose to be so offensive. Then you move the power from this hall to the government offices at the same time. It is actually the government party representatives who are responsible for undermining the role of the Storting. I wish you could be as offensive as the members of the Progress Party and the Right in their proposals here. We are going to vote in favour of the three proposals promoted by the Progress Party and the Right. The first is to strengthen the operational capacity of Kripos, among others. by having their own testing department. Proposal No. 2 more stringent regulation of imports and transfers of explosive weapons, and the third is the joint registration of all firearms. With regard to proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the right, I agree with the latter speakers. We're going to vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1065	Initially, I would like to point out that organised crime occurs in different forms and represents major and, in part, new challenges for the Norwegian police. Crime trends in recent years show that the organised part of crime is growing, stressing the need to intensify efforts. For the government, an overall effort against organised crime is an important field of criminal policy. This was underlined in the Communication on organised crime from December 2010. The Communication represented an overall strategy for meeting the challenges of organised crime through guidance on priorities and follow-up areas. The subsequent examination, both through a separate hearing in the Committee on Justice and the plenary session, gave the Storting broad support to the main lines of government criminal policy. The survey concluded on the proposals for action and strategies against organised crime mentioned in the Communication. This also applies to the fight against crime linked to members of the so-called one-percent MC clubs. In this context, it is important to reduce recruitment and prevent the creation of new threads. The implementation of the measures is under way. Many of the proposals presented in the proposal for a representative are therefore being implemented or evaluated, either as part of the follow-up to the communication or as part of other ongoing work. This has not least been followed up by the Police Directorate's Action Plan against MC crime, which forms the norm for police operational activities in this area. To I in the proposal: the Communication stresses the importance of initiating and developing close cooperation with other relevant actors. This applies, inter alia, to: cooperation with other official control establishments responsible for detecting different types of offences. The Ministry of Justice has therefore instructed the Police Directorate to instruct the police districts to strengthen their cooperation with regional and local control agencies, customs, tax authorities and Nav. Municipalities are a central player in the prevention and detection of crime committed by members of the MC clubs in question. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has pointed out in this regard that there is a need to develop a municipal counsellor to make an effort in this area. The Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Justice, has therefore set up a working group with a mandate to investigate such a guide. The Directorate of Police is also involved. To II of the proposal: Crime is committed by the criminal MC gangs in large parts of the country, and it is the police districts concerned that have the primary responsibility to prevent and combat this crime. In complex cases where crime is committed across police districts, cooperation is organised between the police districts concerned, and between police districts and Kripos. Kripos is the national focal point of MC and police liaison with the rest of the world. Kripos also has acute competence in criminal MC gangs. And as part of its professional responsibility and intelligence function, Kripo's police districts keep constantly informed about the evolution of crime related to criminal MC gangs. As regards III of the proposal, on the protection of sources and witnesses, it is an important measure to succeed in the fight against organised crime. As part of the follow-up to NOU 2009:15, Hidden Information — Open Control, the Ministry will propose legislative changes providing better protection to sources and informants, while respecting the need for effective defence. The committee’s comprehensive proposal has been consulted and the Ministry will promote a proposal by the end of 2012/2013. As this review has shown, work is already under way on the measures promoted in the proposal for a representative. I can also point out that the next Monday I receive the proposal from the Committee on the Law of Arms, which has also had the mandate to address the issues raised in the IV of the proposal up to and including VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1086	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1090	As I mentioned in my post, the Police Directorate has developed a very good plan, the police's fight against criminal MC gangs in the period 2011 to 2015, which I have here. For a normal man, it may seem that the police around the country have a different kind of approach to how to combat these environments. I think that is worrying, precisely because you have this common plan, which all the districts should follow. Does the Council share my concern, and how will the Council of State ensure that all police districts have the same approach to these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1099	As I explained, it is the police districts concerned that have the primary responsibility to prevent and combat this crime. But we know that a lot of things can be very complex, and that is why Kripos will have a natural role – as the national environment of competence they are, but also because they can, of course, help to strengthen efforts locally. Some things are also of such a nature that Kripos himself investigates these.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1104	Earlier this year there was a large international MC hit directed by a one-percent club in Rogaland. There the police, the police district, chose to be very active and stop many of the participants on the border. Then, later, after the summer vacation, it was a European match for Hells Angels here in Oslo. Here, Oslo's police district was standing next to and saw that the party was going on. So there was a significant difference in the police's treatment of this, which gives a different impression when you see it from the outside. It's not safe it's lucky. So my question is as far in the same street as the question to the previous replicant: how does the Minister of Justice assess the need to better coordinate the use of instruments in relation to the police's efforts? I take up at the same time proposal No. 4 and Nos 5 from the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1113	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1116	There can be no doubt that I consider this crime to be very serious, that the fight against organised crime must be strong, and must be reinforced, that Kripos has a very central role in this, and that their cooperation with the police districts is also central. I do not know the background to why the various events have triggered different approaches from the respective policy areas. But when we've both called for a job with a supervisor to the municipalities and we've given Kripos this central role in ensuring information about what crime we're facing, and what means we have to combat it, I hope we've contributed to an increasingly effective fight against this serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1121	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1124	It is frightening that the number of MC threads in Norway has doubled in a few years. We see – as many have been in the past – that the phenomenon is no longer just a big-city phenomenon, but is spreading to smaller cities and towns. When the Justice Committee was traveling in the West, I was actually surprised to hear that MC bands have tried to take control of some city streets to control the businesses there. We have not been used to this in Norway. Drug trafficking, torpedoing and money laundering are examples of the serious crime committed in these well-organised and criminal MC environments. I am very pleased that the government takes organized crime seriously in general, but that the focus is also on the MC crime, as the Council of State has explained. The action plan for combating criminal MC gangs appears to be a good tool, and the impression is that both Kripos and the police districts take this work seriously. I am also pleased with the inter-political consensus, and will take the opportunity to commend the High Representative of the Judicial Committee, Anders Werp, for his commitment. There are many who have much to learn from his false efforts and concrete experiences as former rapporteur in a municipality that has felt this with the MC crime on the body, literally. Hell Angels, Bandidos, Outlaws and other MC clubs related to crime are what we call one percent clubs. They recruit members and MC clubs around the country as support clubs, and get such gradual access to people who are willing to commit criminal acts for them. In this picture, it is important to stress that the vast majority of MC clubs are legal clubs, with law-abiding MC enthusiasts who only intend to cultivate their passion – motorcycle and friendship. We have to bring that with us. But we don't have to be naive either, and I encourage local authorities to keep a close eye on the development of their municipalities. That's all there's to it. I also believe that the law-abiding MC people must have their eyes and ears open to possible irregularities within the environment. They are often the first to suspect that something illegal is going on. If this is switched on in the environments, hopefully it will prevent recruitment itself into the criminal MC environments. KS has taken developments seriously, and with this, together with the supervisor who has taken the initiative of former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget for the municipalities, I believe that much better can also be done in the future to take important steps to combat MC crime throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1135	The representative, Werp, has said quite clearly what kind of environments it is about. We're talking about environments that are raw, cynical, vulgar and sophisticated. The representative Asmyhr took up the fact that parts of the media have acted as mic stands for some of these. If the people there seemed like typical Sunday school people, I know very little about – I may not have frequented Sunday school as much as the president and some others in the hall here – but at least it seemed as if they were relatively innocent in their business, where they were standing. The husband of kose in one of the country's television channels I have never seen in relation to any of the most brutal environments we find. We can't exactly instruct the media, but if there's any media that could follow up on this debate, one might want them to do a little better source search, research, to make that kind of entries. But it says a little about what conscious strategies these environments have. They have top expertise in media strategy, in economics, in law. That's what the municipalities meet – so I'm glad you're working out a supervisor, because here's the small municipalities that will be played against each other in relation to their establishment. Anders Werp, together with his municipality, has fought against these environments. It's been a year-long fight. If we're going to have any idea of zero tolerance against anything, at least we don't have to be naive. If we're not going to race them, at least we're going to use every conceivable democratic opportunity to prevent them from getting their footholds. The question is, as the representative Werp was about: why do you deliberately choose to become a member of a club and an environment that focuses on crime? It's not crime that's the main purpose of most motorcycle clubs, but in those we're talking about, it's the crime that binds and not the motorcycle. At the same time, we see growth in Norway, we see growth in Europe, we see growth in the world – which is worrying. Now, when we are in the midst of a financial crisis, the bloom of extreme and nationalistic attitudes we see, the ground and the basis for recruitment of some of these environments in the future is by making it easier for young, frustrated, angry men who want to gain a strength that feels alienated from society to be recruited to criminal acts within these environments. It's a paradox that Kripos emphasizes the seriousness. Some municipalities do everything they can, while here in Oslo, the police, because of the resource situation, did not – in terms of breaking the spectres. It gives a signal from the community that only one can run enough society, gives society after. That is why we are totally dependent on our being united on the strategy we agreed on when we dealt with the big message, that here we must fight these environments, the anti-democratic forces, with all possible methods and resources within the framework of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1151	There was just one comment that concerns that this is a broad consensus that we should be offensive and stand together if possible. I pointed out that there was a ambiguity between the fact that the Progress Party had agreed in the comment to await the proposals that concerned the Arms Law Committee, while they are in their favour in the proposals. I myself said that we are positive for the intention in them, and the Council of State said that the proposals of the Arms Commission are coming on Monday. It has addressed the questions contained in the two proposals, and we will be able to get more detailed, precise proposals here to the Stortinget. So I would ask – and I have consulted with the proposers about this – to convert the proposals No. 2 and No 3 for transmission proposals. Then we'll support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1158	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1174	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1183	Following a good, long, careful and qualified process within the Committee, we are today considering the representative proposal of the Olemic Thommessen and Svein Fleet on the investigation of the grounds for the clearance of copyright from other countries, cross-territorial clearance. As can be seen from the proposal, the proposers point out that the clearance of cross-border rights represents a major challenge for the making available of already produced content. The rights clearance is today the largest plug in the system to create a forward-looking joint offer for the whole Nordic region. It is also the case that a unanimous committee sees clear consumer and cultural benefits by setting up such a clearing-up, and is therefore in favour of an investigation, as proposed by the proposers. The Committee has also agreed to point out that copyright is also to be regarded as property, and that it is therefore important that such an investigation does not in any way infringe rightholders, so that they may risk becoming financially harmed by such a scheme. The Committee considers it reasonable to limit such a proposal to Sweden and Denmark, with which it is natural to have a common media market. That's all right. So it's a little bit amazing that when we get to the setting itself, the red-green parts jump off the load, while the minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, pick up the proposal that's referenced in the setting. The red-green parties have not written with a single word and a single comma a reason why they want to attach the matter to the protocol and do not agree with the proposal, when they fully agree with everything that is of note in the matter. But I suppose that, as far as possible, they will explain themselves in the further debate. On that basis, I take up the minority's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1198	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1201	As the rapporteur said, this case follows a good tradition for what has been here in the past today, that there is a great deal of consensus in the Chamber. We agree with what is presented in the case proposal, but the case rapporteur asked why we separate layers when we come to what recommendation we should give to Stortinget. I will try to answer the challenge I received from the case rapporteur. The Council of State points out in its letter to the Committee that in the Nordic Council of Ministers she has raised the issue of mutual recognition of the Nordic country's agreement licensing arrangements for the clearing of copyright works. The question is also referred to the departments responsible for copyright in the Nordic countries. As part of a whole, a mutual recognition system must also be assessed in relation to EU law. But the work on the matter has started, and that's why we, who represent the majority, don't see that there's any sense in giving the work order again. Work is in progress, and it will be well-managed in the processes already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1208	It is nice to note that this is something of which there is a broad consensus. I would have expected it to be, because it is not a matter that – what to say – one should have some reason to be against. Getting a better clearing system across borders, whether in the Nordic region or in Europe, has been a topic for a long time both in the professional environments working on it and in the media area. In the EU, this has been the subject of processes, but I believe that we in the Nordic region will be able to point out a course for how this can be handled. Legally, it is not that easy, and within the EU, good models are sought for how to do so. In the Nordic region, we've already established the contract licensing arrangements, and that's a starting point for further work. In fact, if we could find good models, in cooperation with the rights organisations, I think that up here in the north, we could show way in the EU context, which would be very important. It may also be that if you do not reach a country within the framework of traditional Nordic cooperation, this will be a topic that you should seek to find a solution bilaterally, perhaps with Denmark and Sweden. I wish that would be a big profit. It is clear that within the media area, the film area – and the book area, for that matter – we are in a related linguistic impact field that provides a useful starting point for thinking of this as a single market and a common look-up area. An important theme in this picture is the availability of public service channels, i.e. public broadcasting channels, archives. This may be the main concrete example, as the digitisation and making available of these to a general public demands that solutions be found that go beyond the national border. But even if you look at the movement within the media market, you can see that there is quite a lot of ownership that is now establishing itself Scandinavian or Nordic. Within the newspaper area and within the TV area, there are cross-border calls. A common system of rights clearance would pave the way for us to strengthen the opportunities to create more common public spaces in the Nordic region. It's from a larger political perspective in Nordic cooperation, incredibly important. We have the North Vision as a joint program producer unit, which creates fine programs. It's very important and useful and economically correct, but the weakness is that the common public space is not many. The scene on Friday night is the good example of a well-functioning common public space and probably a program that represents in its surface some of the best we can see in getting into integration in the Nordic region. If we had a better basis for rights clearance, the whole process around creating that kind of program would have improved dramatically. And if you do this, you want to create a better starting point for the achievement of artists, just by making the market bigger. From dealing with markets beyond 5 million in Norway, one could relate to a market of maybe 22 million, or at least 20 million. It provides a starting point for incomes that are very lovable in the light of the statistics we have that tell something about artists' incomes. I appreciate the initiative that the government is signaling to have taken. Our proposal should be seen as an expression of impatience, and we are going to pursue this in the future. But impatience is important, because technological progress is going enormously fast, and we are looking for what else this development should give us the opportunity to do. With that background, I look forward to hearing the statements of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1223	I appreciate the impatience that Olemic Thommes has shown in his article. It was in so far as a common Norwegian impatience took effect at the previous meeting of the Nordic Council. This is probably because there is a great deal of interest in this in all Nordic countries, but the interest is perhaps highest in Norway. This is because we have the Book Shelf under the National Library, and it's the idea that we should be able to take advantage of this on a common Nordic level, where we can approve each other's agreement licenses. So I fully agree with the proposers that there is an important need for copyright clearance across borders in order for the citizens of the Nordic region to have access to our common cultural heritage. I have, as the representative knows, worked on this over a number of years. Firstly, I have addressed it in the Nordic Council of Ministers on two occasions, and if we have moved on to work, it will also be the subject of discussion at the next meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers, which will be here in Oslo. Then we also have the opportunity to show the other Nordic countries what we have done in Norway, although, of course, there is also an improvement potential in Norway linked to the Bokhylla. But we've come quite far, so we can read books online. What my proposal in the Nordic Council of Ministers dealt with was in the first series of libraries, based on the Book Shelf, on which the National Library is based in cooperation with Norwegian rightholders. However, digitisation of cultural heritage is available, as the representative was involved, both in libraries, in archives and museums, and in public broadcasting archives. There is also a high priority in many of the Nordic countries. It's just this digitalization that opens up our cultural arenas. Now the Riksarchive is suddenly one of our most visited cultural arenas, precisely because you can look in old church books and in old censuses online. They have as many visitors as our theaters do, and it was basically an institution that had very few visitors. Digitalization makes us open our cultural institutions. In this regard, I raised the question of how to build a Nordic agreement with mutual recognition of the contract licences of different countries, so that this cultural heritage can be made available across the Nordic borders. This is an important issue affecting not only the Nordic countries but also the relationship with EEA law. The issue directly concerns the EU's proposal for a so-called "hitting plant" directive. The aim of this proposal for a directive is to find a solution to the question of how best to clarify works where there is no known author, even cross-border. I believe that the Nordic contract model fits very well with such clearance. Work is still under way in the EU's own bodies, and in cooperation with the other EFTA countries we are in the process of drawing up our comments on this proposal for a directive. Other EU proposals may also have an impact on the issue, for example: the Green Paper on the distribution of audiovisual works over the Internet. Proposals ask for an examination of the issue of cross-border clearance. I can delight them in answering that the work is already on the Nordic level. In the field of copyright, there is good cooperation at the level of office between the different Nordic departments. This informal expert group has been commissioned by the Nordic Council Committee on Culture to review my proposal in relation to EU law and to return with answers during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1243	I would like to thank you for a very promising article. So now these problems go beyond what we're dealing with cultural heritage. It's a natural first step to start there, but in the case of the big movements, for example. in the media area, thinking about common TV rooms, or common clearances, requires further progress, and there we have a good starting point for collective agreements and licensing arrangements. Important actors – or assumptions – to get this done are how we have organised the collective arrangements with regard to the rights in Norway for Copino, TONO, Gramo and all these large ones, which deal with the licensing arrangements. I wonder if the Council of State could imagine, or have thought of, involving these in the work ahead, because we depend on their goodwill for the further development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1250	It is absolutely actors that we must involve if we are to reach agreements in this area. There is also a question of this with digital communication in the next representative proposal being presented. We have just had such agreements negotiated with the employees of the Opera and in the Philharmonic Orchestras. It's clear that we need to have agreements with the authors and the rightholders in order to obtain an impact on a greater degree of distribution of this type of rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1255	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1049]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1273	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1282	Also in this case, technological development has its place. The proposal to use new technologies to disseminate cultural events is both exciting and interesting. The government has contributed greatly to the transnational coverage of digital motorways and, in combination with the opportunities offered by cinema digitisation, is much of the basis on which to communicate cultural events digitally to the people. On such a basis, a unanimous committee supports the intention of the proposal. Public spending a lot of money for different cultural purposes, and more so. The objective of 1 pst. the State budget shall be used for cultural purposes by 2014, as established by the draft budget of the year. There's no doubt that we who live in this country get a lot of back on what public spending on money, on a variety of different forms of art and culture, which we're so lucky to have here in the country. The wish to make it as widely available to the public as possible is that we are all involved. Digital dissemination of concerts and other types of performance from the major cultural arenas is a very interesting measure, which is also supported by the Committee as a whole. It is also interesting to note that the Committee is clear that institutions and actions receiving grants from the Ministry of Culture must work actively to reach as broad and diverse a audience as possible. Digital communication here is a keynote. Digital dissemination of e.g. Opera from abroad is already a large shop in the big world, which also benefits us here in the country. Whether we meet at the Gimle or the Ring Cinema here in Oslo on Saturday night. 18.30, we can attend the opera Rodelinda live from The Metropolitan in New York. With these possibilities it is not difficult to understand that the proposers are impatient and that strong arguments are argued for speeding up the process, Norway wants more, not just to the population of Oslo, but to the population of the whole of Norway. Whether it's a representative of the government parties or a representative of District Norway – there's nothing that would please me more than that the inhabitants of my home state could put on the money and the money and the money and go to their local cinema in order to attend a ballet or opera performance from our magnificent opera building in Bjørvika, or see the theatre performance Wildanden from National Theatre. The government takes the proposal seriously, but wants to see measures in a context. The Ministry is currently working on a major communication on culture, inclusion and participation. Digital dissemination of performing art will have its natural place in the message, along with many other good suggestions. We look forward to the message being completed soon, because this is an important matter. It is also this that separates the Committee in terms of consensus – we want to wait until work on the notification is completed, while I record that the minority is a little more impatient than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1297	The majority decided a few years ago to implement the digitisation of Norwegian cinemas, and this work is now almost complete. As I see it and as the rest of the country sees it, it has been a great success. How do you measure that success? Well, often you can measure it in visitor numbers. Many cinemas can report that they have almost doubled the number of visitors at their cinema. This with digitisation has been positive. This arrangement includes, for example: that it is possible to transfer performances and concerts from large cultural arenas to cinemas throughout the country. It is believed that it is not problematic for Norwegian theatres, Opera or orchestras to produce for digital communication to the general public today. It offers great opportunities, not only for dissemination to new audiences – it must be very desirable for everyone to start work on digital dissemination, including for performing arts. Institutions and actions awarded grants from the Ministry of Culture must work actively and be active in order to reach as broad and diverse a audience as possible. That's why it's urgent to get started, in my opinion. Within the field of music and stage art there are great opportunities to achieve such a goal. There is a strong development in the digital transmission of live performance, both directly and in edited production. In other words, the digital has come to stay. You also see that the Internet and the mobile phone have come to stay. I just want to remind the government parties, so there's nothing to hesitate about. It is important that Norwegian institutions, cinemas, are involved in this development. What progress does the government have for its said big message on culture and this theme? There's one thing more and more waiting for. The government should already give clear signals about the action it intends to take. There are some very good words from the rapporteur on how great this is, but now give the signals that should be given to the major cultural institutions. They work very long-term with regard to the investment of technical equipment, so they want to get these signals now. It is important to get started, so that some people build on experience and competence in this digital field as well. In this context, pilot projects will be useful. There are already large organisations that have reported their interest, such as the United Kingdom. National Theatre. Digital communication is also a topic of Nordic cooperation, some of which have been involved in a previous case. That is why we should get started. I would like to underline the positive effect it could have if productions from Nordic countries would also be available to a common Nordic audience. The institutions would be good for us to get started, and not least for most people around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1314	The next speaker is the representative of Olemic Thommess. Before Olemic Thommessen gets the floor, does the President think that the representative Ib Thomsen should make a proposal? – It is nodded, and then the representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he has at least nodded to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1317	If I can't take it up. Once again, we are dealing with a proposal that I believe is linked to impatience. It's related to the technology we're talking about – this is about conveying performances to cinema in the first place, but it can also be about broadcasting to TV – is going on. We can go to Gimle Cinema and see the Metropolitan performances. We see examples of the NRK2s Main scene on Sundays, where there have been fine examples of transfers of important cultural events from elsewhere in the country, for example. The opening of the dice arena at Elverum, which was an important event at Elverum, an expensive event with a lot of public funds, but which was made available to a general public. What's one of the great things is that it builds up a knowledge that makes this kind of communication interesting. There's been a problem in the past. Television productions, or digital productions that we might call this, have in the past led to a completely different inertia, and reality has been difficult to combine with what we associate with direct transmission. Therefore, it would have been very important to create a ‘ship of battle’ that could break a little road in Norway. Then it's the National Theatre, as the representative Thomsen said, or the Opera that lies so that it would be natural to think in that direction. If we had a pilot who could have done these experiments and built up a more systematic approach to it, we could have a competence that should, of course, be available for a much broader impact field of events and performances. Not every performance and not every event is suitable for it, but very many are. There are also interesting debates about the development of the cinema, because the cinema suddenly becomes the arena for a new type of broadcast or a new type of display. Today, Metropolitan sends its views to only a very limited number of cinemas, and it pays extra for that rightfully. Not many weeks ago, there was a large transfer from Royal Albert Hall of the 25th anniversary marking for The Phantom of the Opera. It was also transferred — I think — to six cinemas in Norway, where there was a special economy related to this. I don't know what's good, and what's not so lucky about how to organize such things. But Norwegian cinemas are well organized, and it would be very interesting to have a debate on the issue of availability and the cinema's development potential, seen in the light of these kinds of transformations. Another perspective around this is also in a type of transmission that would lie somewhere between what we connect with the cinema and what we connect with the TV. We have had debates on a Nordic cultural channel on TV. Developments in this area have not gone very well, simply because the public broadcasters in the Nordic region have not exactly been the most cooperative in this regard. But with the development of a good fiber optic network, with great capabilities in image transformation, one could actually imagine a more systematic and program-driven dissemination of major events and performances in the Nordic region, i.e. a kind of network type of the main stage, and by creating a possibility of dissemination alongside the public service companies, which could actually also contribute to a very good impact field for production. If we think about how much resources are spent on the Nordic – let's say – the main scenes of music, that is, the Philharmonic, we would say, or the major national scenes or the operas, there is a huge amount of money spent. They'd be able to benefit a bigger audience. But first of all, this is about building up technical expertise, experience in engineering and experience with the type of cutting and editing that must occur almost spontaneously in this type of transmission. We have good access, and it would be exciting if we in Norway could get a more systematic processing of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1332	‘In Norway, we need not only something to live with, but also something to live for.’ Culture is a welfare asset in Norway to which everyone should be entitled. It is a heart issue for Sv that everyone in Norway should be able to participate in the Cultural Promise, regardless of geography, physical disability, etc., and this is a matter of the utmost importance. As many people have been into before me, digital technology offers unparalleled new opportunities for more people to experience culture, and not least it gives opportunities to communicate singers to audiences who may not have thought that the singer was something for them. Several have mentioned what is the most famous example, the Metropolitan Opera in New York, which has convinced many an opera skeptic around the country. At the same time, I think it's a little important to remember in this context that interaction between scene and audience cannot always be transferred to a screen, and that digital distribution is not a substitute for the experience it actually is. To go to the theater, but that gives opportunities. In particular, it provides opportunities for both subtitles and interpretation to deaf and visually impaired persons. This is a topic that will be addressed in the big message about culture, social inclusion and participation, which I think will be the right framework for the discussion on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1343	It is an overall goal for the government to gain more access to cultural experiences, but the new technology allows us to also get inspiration to visit new cultural arenas that we may not have visited before. What we're thinking about when it comes to digital distribution is just the ability to send big performances out to the country's cinemas, so that more people can take part in a performance than those who sit in the hall. It's not the same thing as sitting in a hall, but it gives a completely different experience sitting in a cinema than sitting and watching a similar show at home, on TV. That's exactly why we've gone in for, for example. digitizing the cinemas, which makes this much easier. We have also gone in and bought up rights for some artist groups, among others. the staff of the Opera and the Philharmonic Orchestras, in order to be able to digitally distribute what they produce. So far, we don't have similar rights for them at stage art institutions, but we might have to look in the direction of the years that are coming. This is also a problem related to a lot of TV drama. There's a lot of great TV drama on the NRK. I wish there were several reprisals on a good part of the best series, but due to the rights of the artists, who have not been bought out, it is simply too expensive to send reprices. This is an area we have to bet on in the time that comes. There is also one reason why digitalisation will be seen as an important tool in this work in the key social inclusion and participation messages. It is important for us that the institutions themselves also give priority to digital communication within their budgetary frameworks, and it must also be assumed that a possible digital dissemination plan of performing art needs to be developed and proposed by the institutions themselves, and not by the government. But I'm aware that more people have these kinds of plans, including: The National Theatre and the Norwegian Opera, and we're going to assess whether there might be an opportunity to support some of these actions. One thing is to want it, but it takes a lot of money to communicate it digitally in a good way. Among other things, at the best performances in the Opera, there are many cameras. There's a big production device going on to distribute this digitally, so it'll be a good experience for those sitting at the movies in Trondheim or elsewhere in the country and looking at it. That is why it requires some money, and we will assess that in the context of the social inclusion notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1355	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the signal that I saw she gave in assessing pilots, supporting initiatives – let's call it – at the Opera or at the National Theatre, for example, which have quite concrete plans on this. That signal saves me to ask for exactly that. The second thing I could imagine asking is how far the Council of State is going to involve the municipal cinematographers and the NRK, because the NRK is in some competence here. The NRK has made transfers to the Main Scene, which is a different format in inches, but which technically is much the same. The municipal cinematographers are sitting on a large apparatus, and there are also some rights issues related to who is going to be sent, rights issues related to the scope – short and well: How do you think you're going to involve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1362	It's like 50 cinemas have already said they are willing to participate in this trial project I've previously informed about, so there's a great deal of interest among the municipal cinematographers in participating in this digitization work. You already have good results to point out when it comes to the transfer of what's happening in New York to a movie theater in Oslo, so many are interested in getting similar arrangements. When we're going to set up big performances in the future, whether it's opening up cultural institutions, or there's other big events, it's now -- without me being able to go into the individual agreements that are now being made -- a lot of people who are interested and ask, can we set this up at the cinema here? Can we set up this entry here? I know that there are many such plans, I know that it requires some investments, but what plans for which projects can eventually come to cinema, I have no opportunity to go into this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1372	There are many positive words, both from the Council of State, from the case rapporteur and from the government parties, about reaching out to the whole country and helping to develop culture – very good signals, touching signals. A little scepticism that I heard from the government parties was that you kind of don't get the same feeling of sitting in the hall by transferring digitally. It can all agree, but nevertheless it is a positive measure to reach the whole country – if you mean anything by it. My question to the Council of State is about to start a trial project. You wait for a message. But do you need to wait for a message to get the trial project started, to show if this is going at all, if it's worth spending money on, if it's worth spending time on? How long do we have to wait to get this test project started? And why aren't you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1379	I thank the representative for thinking that I am touching – I will take that with me in the further work. So we'll evaluate the application from these stage art institutions in a couple of months.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1386	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1404	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1413	The Committee has examined a relatively comprehensive proposal, promoted by a number of representatives of the Christian People's Party, dealing with volunteering and civil society. It is very positive that we have a debate on proposals for action to strengthen volunteering and generally strengthen the non-profit sector's place in the welfare community. There is, of course, a debate that concerns many people, because a very large part of the Norwegian population participates in voluntary work, and it also contributes significantly to society, both economically and humanly. It is a unanimous committee that supports the idea that a strong voluntary commitment has an important intrinsic value and that it also contributes to other important areas, such as inclusion, social cohesion, public health and the development of local communities. But as you can see from the comments in the matter, not all of the proposals you want to vote in favour. I'll come back to that later. It is usually the case that the majority of the government that my party is part of gets criticism that you go too far in wanting to control the volunteer, or you get criticism from the opposition because you have suggestions and thoughts that you think families or individuals themselves should take responsibility for. Therefore, it is quite surprising that the Christian People's Party in its proposal comes up with several things that the majority parties think are something that the state and the public should not take responsibility for. The majority refer, inter alia, to: voluntary community service for 16-year-olds is an idea that should come from voluntary activity itself and not as a state initiative. I am personally skeptical of the thought anyway. There's a lot of reasons for that. One is the cost-benefit perspective, the other is that social conditions in Norway and the United Kingdom are quite different and cannot be compared in a simple way. With regard to the question of eligibility, the majority refers to previous reviews of the higher education legislation and considers that the result of higher education is essentially the result of a ranking of candidates for higher education. So the question of volunteering on the agenda. The majority point out that the school and the individual teacher themselves need to figure out how to involve it, but one may notice that the majority underlines the importance of involving the voluntary sector as an important complement to ordinary education. As regards relations with non-profit actors, a unanimous committee points out that the government is reviewing the situation of the non-profit actors. The whole committee is also quite impatient in this work and says that one looks forward to clarifying that issue. So, to the question of what the proposers call a replacement parent scheme. There the majority point out that the arrangements we have today are very much fulfilling this very need, and that it is not considered a good solution that the government should enter into and establish new arrangements, as a competitor of what the volunteers already have. Rather, you want to strengthen the volunteer organisations in the job they do. Much of the same is pointed out in the question of home-school cooperation. The Committee believes that this is a very important issue, while pointing to many of the schemes that we already have today. The same applies to the proposal on groups of friends, where the majority point out that there is confidence in finding good cooperation between parents and schools for this. Then it's hard not to get into all that the government has done when discussing volunteering. The government has been very active in the voluntary sector. Both the creation of voluntary centres, the focus on red tape and VAT compensation schemes are important contributions that build on voluntary efforts and involvement. Although we are very happy to have this debate in Stortinget, the majority believe that many of the proposals that have been put forward here are proposals that are not agreed on, even if the basic idea that the proposers are trying to come forward with is supported. As a centre party, it is good to conclude that a single committee will stress that opportunities for growth and development should be the same throughout the country also in the non-profit sector, and that a majority further points to the importance of the decentralisation of power and institutions to strengthen confidence in the democratic institutions and the desire and ability of peoples to engage. It is also pointed out that a robust rural policy is needed to ensure viable rural and community communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1445	Unfortunately, the introduction of VAT compensation has not been in line with the guarantees given by the government – too little, too late. This, of course, affects volunteering across the country. It is such that unfortunately this is not the only guarantee from which the government has run. For this reason, I have taken the liberty of writing a little poem about the government's opportune use of the term "guarantee". I have called the poem «Guarantee Government»: ‘Guaranteed guarantees Guaranteed Cancer – Hospital Guaranteed Momskutt - Volunteering - Compensation Guaranteed Choices – Voices – Power The guarantee was not guaranteed guaranteed It is clearly the only guarantee that: has ever been a guarantee’» Strong voluntary involvement has an important intrinsic value. In addition, it also makes important contributions to the inclusion, social cohesion and development of local society. Voluntary engagement stems from the individual's desire to participate in a common relationship with which one has a personal relationship. There are a number of overall policy objectives from several parties on this topic, where volunteering is sought in various ways as a participant – in fact strongly desired. The welfare debate is largely characterised by a simplified view of society, with the right-hand side facing the left, the private sector facing the public sector, market and competition confidence against public monopolies. I call for more perspectives and wider scope in the debate and will stress that all three sectors of society need to participate in the major welfare debate. The welfare society consists not only of public and commercial actors but also of a large civil sector, where actors and non-governmental organisations play a crucial role. Another perspective that also needs to be lifted is the importance of volunteering in civil society. Volunteering and participation in formal and informal social networks are key qualities of a well-functioning society. Voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households build trust between people. The state sector has grown significantly in the post-war period. Now is the time for a new start for volunteering. Norway was at the forefront of the development of the welfare state, based on volunteering. There may sometimes be a need for government initiatives in specific areas to give a boost to volunteering, such as: VAT compensation, which I have had in the past. In this context, I refer to the proposal by KS and Freedom Norway on a cooperation platform between the voluntary sector and the municipalities. Participation in voluntary teams and organisations brings valuable experience, building democracy and creating equivalent citizens. A large proportion of the Norwegian population have carried out voluntary work — in their mouths also called hard work. We have traditions of hard work, it works in our society. This contributes significantly to society, both economically and humanly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1487	Perhaps the representative will address proposals in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1490	I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1495	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1498	It's interesting to note that while we can discuss increasing levels of social capital in this room and in Norway, we see that the rest of Europe is seeing increasing levels of social unrest. I want to start my post by praising the Christian People's Party to address a very important topic. Voluntary Norway, in my opinion, is one of our greatest jewels and one of our country's foremost characteristics. Voluntary Norway is a significant part of what Norway we are all so proud of. Nor is there any doubt that there are many wise thoughts in the Christian People's Party about the importance of volunteering for cohesion and social capital in society. First, I want to reject a myth that the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying hard to spread, that it is at the intersection of the Christian People's Party and the Right Party that voluntary Norway has its foremost political support. Such a claim can be compared to sitting at the desk and making models that show that it rains out, while by looking out the window you see that the sun shines from the blue sky. For what do we see if we look out of this hall and out towards the Norwegian society in 2011? Well, we see a Norway where volunteering flourishes like never before. The large increase in the number of festivals of different types, market days and other local events in recent years is perhaps the most striking example. Impressive events are being conducted. The entire community of volunteers is mobilised to the full. People get good cultural experiences. In addition, local identity, pride and belief in their own ability to accomplish something great in common are strengthened. New meeting places between different people are being created, and links between people are being strengthened. This is, of course, about initiatives from local fires, but it is also about policies and the values of society on which we, as politicians, focus their efforts to build on. For the Workers' Party, the Cultural Promise was and is a thoughtful and ambitious choice of value. It comes from a basic perception of what we relate to the concept of 'good society'. I read a similar search for good society in the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party. I read an analysis that I essentially share. The ideal actors and volunteering in their various forms must have a significant place in the society we want. At the same time, we must never forget that basic well-being cannot be left to volunteer alone. In this respect, it is striking, but not surprising, that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the position reserve themselves for the section where it is pointed out that a strong public sector is not opposed to the voluntary and non-profit-making activities. The government parties, on the other hand, stand together with the Christian People's Party at this obvious point. In the document, the proposers explain how the Church and the labour movement were early examples of voluntary social actors and movements. That's absolutely right. But as we all know, it was only when these movements succeeded in making their health offerings and social security schemes into general national schemes that our society was changing to a new era of security and dignity for the broad community of the people. Those who want to weaken this peculiarity of Norway, and in this respect point to volunteering as an alternative, do not belong in this proud tradition. The Right Party and the Advance Party want a society with greater differences. Then they jump over the fact that increasing differences will lead to less trust and weakening social capital. In Norway, we have a tradition of finding common policies across party boundaries in the major cases. I would like to invite you to a process in Stortinget, especially with regard to the Christian People's Party's first proposal, but also with regard to the whole of the document. I think everyone is curious about how social capital and volunteering can really be social policy objectives. To that end, we need better time and more thorough processes than the proposed document 8. I will come back to how we want to deal with some of the proposals in a later article, but I would remind you that this is a debate that must not end today, but must continue for a long time, because we share some common values here, at the intersection of the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party, and we hope for good cooperation on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1521	I take note of the warm and warm invitation from the representative of Stokkan-Grandes to the Christian People's Party, but note that the party of Stokkan-Grandes and the other government parties cannot support one of the 17 proposals that have been submitted. I think that's a little poorly prepared friar. You should have more in the box if you're going to think you're going to get a yes. I agree with the representative Stokkan-Grande that in the first proposal the interesting perspective here is drawn up, although it may be a little difficult to fully understand the scope of what that proposal is all about – that is, whether it is possible to implement it. It's about the place of civil society in the overall picture of our social structure, that is, the perception of civil society's community, the community of volunteering – all the communities that live through – as a field, a value, different from the state and the public sector, and in and of itself also slightly different from business and private value creation. Although I think that there is some fuss in the machinery with regard to some of the proposals that have been put forward here, I experience the Christian People's Party's long-term policy, the long-term policy lines, as a policy that is based on the independence and integrity of civil society, to recognise civil society as something other than state and public authorities. In this is, I think, the strength of the total proposal that has been presented. That's also the right starting point. We want a strong civil society. This means that in a society that has a strong state, which has grant schemes, and which has instruments up to nearly all areas, we need to be careful about how we adapt these instruments to the independence of civil society. This means that rather than making concrete proposals, input and impositions on given wishes of a political nature, we want solutions for a good VAT system and a good overall policy for framework conditions of a practical nature, i.e. things that do not act as a guide and influence for the development of voluntary activity. This does not mean that one should not be able to cooperate with the voluntary nature of specific conditions in health, church or other areas. However, this means that the initiative should remain as close as possible to voluntary activity. It also means having a certain level of caution in the use of leadership in the field of government grants and public objectives. The reason why we do not go into many of these proposals, which are equally good proposals, is precisely that we find them too concrete. We think it seems a bit instructive to volunteer if we put on that kind of proposal. Otherwise, we are concerned that the public has a good interface with the voluntary sector. We are occupied with the resources that volunteering represents, not least in the area of health and care, are recognised as important and fundamental resources in our society, and that they should go beyond what we have seen under this government. When this government took over six years ago, voluntary organisations were viewed as part of the private sector in health and care. There has been a steady development, which has gone in one clear direction, and where it is about the slowing down of the institutions that are just owned by volunteers, while the public has been built up. It's probably not a line I think Christian People's Party will share with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1536	As others have been before me, it is quite a large and comprehensive proposal that we have to deal with today. It ranges from the very large, overall and general to the very specific and local, like for example. Kristiansand public high school. Although in SV we don't have the habit of going on free-trade, which we don't do in this context either, I will commend the proposalers' commitment to volunteering, which is a genuine commitment. I know that. The representative Ramsøy has explained well the views of the government parties in this regard. I would therefore just like to add a few general comments to the proposal. Unlike some later to believe, there is no contradiction between a large country and a large voluntary sector. It's Norway's living proof of that. In international contexts, Norway tops the list of volunteers. We organize a lot of work, and we have a lot of work to do, which others have been involved in. We're at the top of the world when it comes to participation. I would say that it is precisely the great welfare state that is involved and that contributes to volunteering. It contributes to more equality in society, and thus more trust. I would recommend everyone to read Richard Wilkinson’s book ‘Why Equality is Better for Everyone’, which explains why a society of small differences contributes to more trust between people. What provides a good basis for the voluntary sector is trust and everyone can participate. Some of the proposals also have poor reflections on the relationship between the state and civil society. Even though we in SV, as I have just explained, are supporters of the welfare state, we are also advocating that the voluntary sector itself should have a hand on the steering wheel of development. Some initiatives must come from voluntary activity itself. That's when I'm aiming, for example. to the proposal for voluntary community service for 16-year-olds, which is a good and interesting idea. But I think it must be a driving force in the will itself to make such a proposal. We can discuss that with the volunteer, of course. Otherwise, I would like to add that I believe that, in the light of the events of the summer, we have all received a great reminder of the importance of democracy as a volunteer, and that there is nothing we can take for granted, nor in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1549	When you listen to the debate on the development of Norwegian society, you often get the impression that it is the state that fits with society, and that we in Norway disagree a little about the size of this market. In addition, we have a third sector, which is voluntary, which is kind of messed up. Voluntaryness is not a third sector. Voluntaryness is the first sector. Voluntaryness is the arena where people live their lives. It's where communities pulsate, and that's where communities and communities evolve. We have 100,000 voluntary teams and associations in Norway. The municipality and the state on the one hand and the market on the other are important arenas, which together with volunteering constitute three pillars upon which our society rests. The welfare services, as we know them today, have been started by ideal, voluntary actors who built up services, where the state and the municipalities gradually came in and supplemented. Since then, these actors have sidetracked us, until, over the last few years, we have had more aggressive tendering and market thinking that is in the process of pushing out the ideal actors. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly addressed this, and we now hear that more and more people understand the problem. We are eagerly waiting for the concrete results. Christian democratic human vision is not based on the collective. Christian-democratic human vision is based on the individual – not on the individual as an individual who lives alone, but on the individual as a community-seeking being who has his natural place and lives in natural communities such as family, community, voluntary organisations, etc. It is therefore not unnatural that it is precisely the Christian People's Party that is raising this debate – and unfortunately we are all alone on many of the proposals – by proposing a new gift for volunteering and raising society's efforts for social capital, which is so important to individuals and communities. Yes, we are inspired by David Cameron in the United Kingdom, and, yes, we are inspired by many initiatives taken in the United States. We're not going to govern volunteering as an authority. Nor should we take over the work or initiative of volunteering in areas in which volunteering is strongly involved. But after listening to the speeches before today, I have to ask: Do you – the previous speakers – think that the authorities should almost abdicate or not engage in social issues in which volunteering is involved? Does it mean that we should not, as authority, take initiatives for solutions that both strengthen social capital, strengthen community and strengthen quality of life because it also affects the voluntary sector, which is, of course, engaged in almost all areas of our welfare society? It falls on its own unreasonableness. It is fully possible to respect the autonomy of the voluntary sector while being active, committed politicians who want good community. There's no contradiction. That is why we have also promoted these proposals. I would otherwise like to thank you for the commendable mention of much of the intention in the proposals, although most of the proposals are not supported. I also thank you for the invitation to cooperation on social capital and volunteering as social policy objectives. Now I have to say that there are Document 8 proposals that are the arena for dealing with issues in the Stortinget. There doesn't seem to be a majority for this today, but the Christian People's Party never says no to a cooperation in which we are given the opportunity to get an impact on the good politics of the Christian People's Party. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1573	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1576	I actually believe in everyone here in the hall when they say that they think that volunteering is important. I actually think all parties believe that volunteering is important. But that doesn't mean that we have a similar principle view of how we're going to deal with volunteering, and what role volunteering has in society. There are differences. There is a big difference in principle when I in this room ask Rigmor Aasrud about the view of voluntary home drivers, and she says that it is clear that non-governmental organisations have a competitive advantage as service providers. It's a view of volunteering and it's very clear how you relate to volunteering in principle. It doesn't mean that I think the Council of State is opposed to volunteering or against volunteering, but it says something about how she views them, when she chooses to express herself just like that. What is generally frustrating about the debate is all those who stand here from the government parties and say that they like to take the debate – but then they won't answer. It's hard to discuss with someone who won't answer what you really mean. In fact, I believe that this is an obstacle to the debate in this Chamber. I would like to raise some points regarding a very good initiative by the Christian People's Party, sail if I do not entirely agree with everything contained in the proposals. The left will vote in favour of the proposal No. One, two, three. That's why we think they're wise and important. In particular, I would like to stress the need for less bureaucracy for voluntary organisations. There the government had very good wording in Soria Moria I – for which I have always chosen to give the Center Party credit – on how to achieve the goal of less bureaucracy for the organizations. But it's gotten a lot, a lot worse. The way you choose to implement the volunteer register and all the parts of it have made things go the wrong way. So it's absolutely right that Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to participation in non-governmental organisations, but that's because Nordic volunteering is very different from the volunteering of other countries. Norwegian volunteering is a lot of marine aid, marine organisation and participation, while volunteering elsewhere in Europe are old ladies with blue hair that helps anyone else. In Norway, volunteering is largely organised by sea, while in other countries it is necessary to help someone else because you have a little extra money or extra time. Therefore, Norwegian voluntarism is completely different. It is based on participation – broad participation and mass participation. But volunteering is also a big change. Not long ago, when you had two or three festivals, you thought that now it was enough with festivals, now people couldn't cope with going to more festivals. It reminds me of the time we discussed the art hall in Oslo's cultural administration, where one of the old Right-Women said no, now we can't have more art exhibitions, because I can't go on anymore, I, the leader! It's a little bit like that with festivals, too. Ten years ago, when I was a city councillor, I was contacted by people who thought that the festivals they had in Oslo were too many, so they had to be put together for one Oslo festival. I said no to that, and I'm very happy about that. I think Oslo might have 10-20 times more festivals now than you had at the time. So there's a change in volunteering. The question is whether, as politicians, we are able to change the grant systems and support systems in line with the change in volunteering, so that we are able to support the measures that are. I think it's very nice that the public supports systems, seas with reserve parents, but I don't see the point that the public should initiate proposals for reserve parents. This is where I am a little bit of the Christian People's Party proposal. Our political role is to provide opportunities for growth for all the good ideas that come, to enable those who actually take an initiative, to take that initiative and make it grow further. But having the government that orders to the volunteer is going to be a completely wrong angle. Then I believe that we are back to Rigmor Aasrud's point of view, that non-governmental organisations have a competitive advantage as service providers to the public. I think that is a wrong approach to volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1595	I record that most parties propose to the Christian People's Party, but that the Christian People's Party is not so pleased with any of the freemen. This is something we all have experience with from our local environments when we were very young. The Christian People's Party is not known for having the kids who are the easiest on the thread, nor is it in politics. The Christian People's Party must have a lot of proposal before they bite. And then we get to continue the debate along that path. As many people have experienced, our welfare state is often based on the initiative of the volunteer. The church started hospitals, and now it has become a public offer. The labour movement started pension funds and started prevention guidance, and it later gave us a situation where we got a public pension, and we received prevention guidance at public offices. – Or the sanitary women, who started health wards locally based on volunteering, kindergartens the same thing, which later became a public offer. I think it's very positive that we have a welfare society based on volunteering. But I think there is a need to discuss whether it is such that the challenges we see in our society, with solitude and lack of inclusion, can really be solved today by the welfare community. I think that the really difficult tasks in our society are better done by volunteers than they are done by a welfare society. Loneliness among the elderly can help us by giving home help better time to talk to the individual, but it is through visiting schemes, such as through the Red Cross, that we can solve the challenges of solitude. Of course, when it comes to the inclusion of asylum seekers, we can do something through refugee consultants in the municipalities, but that is among other things. through support schemes from the Red Cross, the Red Cross, the Red Child and others that we can get real inclusion of new countrymen. I believe that we have come to a point in Norwegian welfare development where we should be careful to say that all kinds of tasks that volunteer today takes care of should be publicised and communicated. We can't hire people in any of those tasks. Therefore, it is important to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. Then I feel that the Christian People's Party does not quite agree that this goes fast enough, but at least it goes in the right direction. We're betting more on volunteering now than we did a few years ago. We have improved VAT compensation schemes. We've had grassroots percentage in Norwegian Typing. I record that many parties believe that this is not going fast enough, but at least it is so that the authorities have never spent more money just to support actions in the voluntary sector. I do not fully agree with all the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted, which have been discussed by others. This applies, for example: what was said about best-in- reserve parents, which are organised voluntarily in part of the organisations. I believe that it is the task of the municipality and the state to facilitate it through generally good framework conditions, but not to order concrete assignments to be done by the voluntary sector. Then I think we're getting a too instrumental view of volunteering. Then it's like I'm going to say as Minister of Culture that I expect it and that and that from volunteering. I want to warn very much against such an attitude, because I think that voluntary action must spring from what you want to contribute with, it must spring from those who themselves want to set up as grandparents for children because they may not have grandchildren themselves, or have grandchildren who live far away from them. This is what our view of volunteering must be. Then I'm also a little bit opposed to the kind of arrangements that say we should give extra credit to those who participate in voluntary work. It's also going to be quite instrumental. Those countries with extra points related to volunteering do not necessarily have a larger voluntary sector. And if you make a lot of points around it, I'm not sure you get what you really want. What's the advantage of voluntary engagement is that it's unselfish, because it comes from the heart, and you have the pleasure of helping others. As many people have experienced, social capital, trust among people, is increasing in Norway. We believe in each other more now than a few years ago. It's a different situation than you can see in a lot of other countries, and we're going to be happy about that. So we're talking about simplification. It is clear that when we have a voluntary sector, we have certain control needs. Several people sitting here have been through rounds asking the political youth organisations to improve reporting to the authorities on how to obtain public funds. However, there may be — and this is also the basis for the simplification project — that control measures have gone too far and that there is too much control. Therefore, LNU is also pleased with the work we do in cooperation with them to improve the simplification of work with youth organisations. That's why we want to keep doing that work, because we're working with more organisations to simplify their business. Then we also work with volunteer centres, and there has never been a greater stake in it than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1621	There was a lot of rhetorical positivity here from both the government councils and the government parties. It was about cooperation, about facilitating, you see the need for volunteering, we wouldn't have done without it, and volunteering also builds democracy. Yes, the rhetoric is nothing to say on. In conclusion, the Council of State was in its intervention in voluntary centres. I myself believe that this is a good solution as a hub in the municipalities. Do the Councils see the need for volunteering centres in all municipalities around the country? What will the Council of State do — now she has said that she has spent more money on it — to develop the local volunteer centres to become what they should become, namely a hub of volunteering in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1628	It's not just the rhetoric of volunteering that's good. It's just looking around in the Norwegian community. Volunteering flourishes – there are a lot of people who spend a lot of time on volunteering. So to describe this as a kind of hay valley where everything is gray and sad is not a real description of what we see around us. It thrives on volunteering, but there's a lot we can do to make it even better. Volunteer centres are then one of several instruments. Since 2005, grants have been granted for the creation of 118 new volunteer centres, with a total of over 370 volunteer centres receiving state funding in 2011. It's a significant investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1633	The signals of state councils on welfare development, I must say, were almost a party to hear, that there is a limit to politics, that there is a limit to how much government can actually rule, and that volunteering has a very important role to play in raising up, for example. issues such as solitude and integration, as mentioned by the Council of State. It is about giving responsibility, taking responsibility and feeling responsibility and about overall framework conditions. There are interesting perspectives, which get a little too big to get into a line, for example. in relation to the announcement made by the government itself. However, I have a specific question in relation to the Register of Freedoms and Departments, i.e. the various support schemes of the government, among others. Ministry of Equal Opportunities. It was thought that the Voluntary Register would be a sort of Altinn scheme, i.e. one place to pick up numbers and information for public applications. How's work going?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1640	This was opened on 1 January 2008, and there are now 24 000 organisations registered. Freedom Norway has recently implemented a pre-project related to the possible integration of its membership registers with the Voluntary Register. The project has been funded by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry is now working to assess solutions related to the implementation of such an integration solution in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Brønnøsund Registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1645	I agree with the compliments of the previous replicants, to put it that way, in terms of the principal reasonings of the Minister of Culture's speeches. Now the Council of State is right to note that the Christian People's Party is not so light on the thread. I don't know if that's the problem, but now the Minister of Culture's own NRK has enriched the nation's spirit life with the Triangle program during the fall, and then it probably has also led to us all adding a little bit more to the list for what kind of activities we allow ourselves to be on. Quality requirements have increased considerably, and creativity as well. In extending the good reasoning of the Council of State, I want to follow up what the Council of State said about red tape, because there is now a process going on. But the Christian People's Party is impatient and wants results. Will there be a reporting to Stortinget and will there be concrete results from the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1652	Yes, there will be concrete results from this project, and we will also present that to the Stortinget. As for the program Triangle, I might take the Christian People's Party's points here, that Christian People's Party is as they've always been, but the others may have been a little bit too inspired by the program Triangle and become a little bit too ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1657	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1663	If there's some kind of voluntary sector that's used to, that's a nice word. It's not lacking in goodwill and party speeches. But now is the time for action – now the measures need to be put in place. That is what the Christian People's Party has now invited. We are promoting proposals for 17 concrete measures. If the proposals had been implemented, it would contribute to the vitalisation of voluntary Norway and would have strengthened civil society. We need to put in place a new awareness of the civil sector, a new idea of volunteering – a new understanding of civil society. We're talking about something completely different than the market, and we're talking about something completely different than the state. We must establish the truth about civil society. It's independent. It's on its own. When the Workers' Party talks about the community, it's usually the state they're talking about. But the community is more. The Community goes far beyond the State. When the right-hand side is talking about individual freedom, it's usually the market it's talking about. But individual freedom goes far beyond the market. The Christian People's Party will point a third way. Civil society and the voluntary sector are something else, something independent, which is neither state nor market alone. There is not necessarily any contradiction between an active country and a large voluntary sector. It's a misunderstanding. Northern American states, such as Minnesota, which has a relatively large public sector, have higher social capital and a more active voluntary sector than southern countries with a small public sector. The Scandinavian countries combine the world's highest social capital with large public sectors. Therefore, the advice of the researchers to stimulate volunteering and social capital is not necessarily to withdraw the country as much as possible. But the state must be aware of the nature and importance of volunteering. We must support it and give the sector good framework conditions. Without an active civil society, we become a poor nation. The State shall not govern the level of voluntary activity or the civil sector in detail, far from it. Therefore, our proposals on how to stimulate the sector positively and facilitate growth are in line with what is underlying the proposal of KS and Freedom Norway on a cooperation platform between the voluntary sector and the municipalities. Finally, I fully agree with the Council of State when she talks about integration and about investing in the voluntary sector. I also do not believe that a Nav procedural decision integrates them. It happens best in civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1682	In the Norwegian welfare debate, which is often about having either lower taxes or more states, the Christian People's Party believes that there is an important perspective missing, namely the voluntary sector. It's often with and creates a wedge between state and market, and creates a third way, how many people spend their time and commitment to get to things they want to solve. Civil society provided the basis for Norway’s prosperity and well-being, as the Council of State also said in its intervention. It was through the Church's confirmation education that our people learned to read. It was perhaps the most important single factor for economic and social development, according to several economic historians. The country's first hospital was created by the Church in Trondheim and Oslo some 700 years ago. From the late 1700s on, preacher Hans Nielsen Hauge created a mass movement of Haugians with an emphasis on the individual's freedom and responsibility, which was crucial to industrialization and the modern development of Norway. The labour movement contributed to the creation of the welfare state and many of our good employee rights. Freedom is not just about community building and the place it has in society. There are several people who now call for health promotion to be allowed to engage in voluntary work. If you're lonely and you quit smoking, it's uncertain what's best for hell: that you stop smoking, or that you join a club or a club, according to the government's Robert D. Putnam at Harvard. But how are we going to make this flourish all over the country? How are we going to be stimulated by the self-drift that exists in people who see social challenges around them, and who may have expected either to come in and solve it for us, or there are some private people who find out that here they can take responsibility? How are we gonna figure this out? Well, the new volunteering depends on the presence of some instruments that put resources and human competence in place, so that they can be involved in what you really want. One of the very interesting proposals, I think, is our proposal to set up a start-up fund for social innovation, inspired by the Centre for Economic Opportunity, which was set up in New York by Mayor Michael Bloomberg. This is a fund where you can actually seek support to solve the challenges that individuals see in their society. We're just starting to think of civil society as the third road society. We in the Christian People's Party are going to build this further, and we're not going to give up until it's become a truth that next time we're talking about increased welfare, more state and more market, but also about more volunteering. [[(President clubs):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1697	The President will recall the speaking time, which is actually not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1700	Like those who have spoken before me, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for bringing up such an important topic as what we are discussing now. The Christian People's Party has many interesting suggestions. One of the proposals calls on the government to ensure that social capital and volunteering are taken into account as social policy objectives in line with value creation and sustainability. What's this about? You could have a lot of different approaches to that topic, but I want to pick my approach angle with the background that I represent the social-democratic movement. We often use the slogan 'everybody is going to join', and we mean it, because in strong social networks between people all have their place. We want, like the Christian People's Party, a society where everyone feels that you belong, we want to create a sense that everyone can contribute with theirs, and we want a society based on trust. Social capital, according to my definition and my understanding, is a collective property of a society, while trust can only be measured on an individual level. That's why it's important to have a transparent society and a system that mirrors society around it. Here the press has an important task to do. The newspapers take the pulse of Norwegian local democracy, strengthen local identity and mirror associations and businesses in Norwegian communities. Press support is very important to maintain the diversity of newspapers, and diversity is important for democracy, even when it comes to discussing volunteering. The Norwegian newspapers have a strong position, thanks to political will. In 1952, there were 227 newspapers in Norway at 123 publishers. In comparison, there were 226 newspapers last year in 186 publishers. This is what the bourgeois parties want to end. They believe that society should not provide financial support to Norwegian newspapers, but that the market should decide which newspapers to manage. Individually, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left Dramatic Cut in the Press Support – cut that will cause many Norwegian newspapers to drop. The working party would like to review the press stand system, but our aim is to ensure a media diversity, small local viewers and quality in the media. Removing the democratic and socially critical voices of newspapers in order to give more tax cuts is not our policy. So far I have recorded that fortunately we have a Christian People's Party with us in this vision. In my opinion, it is important to draw this topic into this debate as well. Social capital, trust and volunteering contribute strongly to social policy objectives. A press diversity contributes to the content of these important themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1717	I record that many have used this debate – wisely enough – to talk a lot about social capital. In proposal No 4 in the setting I hear behind the lines of the text really a cry for more social democratic policy. For what has ensured that Norway is today one of the countries with the highest level of confidence in the population, with high capital and a volunteer flourishing? That's precisely the community's commitment to volunteering and to the social-democratic solutions we've seen. I have asked for the floor to say something about the concrete proposals – give an explanation as to why we are not dealing with them today. Proposal No. 1, from the minority in the position, is about entrepreneurship — it should also include social entrepreneurship. The right address is the Church, Education and Research Committee. They now have the school report for treatment, where they have strengthened young entrepreneurship, and where they also want to look at social entrepreneurship. Proposal No. 2 is about the simplification and red tape programme. There I believe that the State Council Anniken Huitfeldt has given clear and clear answers to what has been ordered by the minority. Proposal No. 4, on social capital and volunteering as social policy objectives, is, first of all, somewhat vaguely formulated. I would have liked to have thought that the Christian People's Party had put into practice how such a comprehensive goal can be operated, because as it is here, it is relatively unmanageable. But I imagine that on a number of these points, instead of voting for it today, there can be a longer process of ensuring in the future what many in this Chamber have been concerned about, namely the continuing high level of social capital in Norway, the continued high level of participation in voluntary activity and the continued high level of trust in society. Then we have a lot to talk about, across the party boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1732	Never have so many people spoken so hotly for so much and voted for so little. But we're going to have to bring along the goodwill we can get, and we're going to think that hopefully, based on the last post, the arenas can come later, where some of it can be realized. [[Laughter]] First of all, I should like to say to Mrs Stokkan-Grande's comment on proposal No. 1, and that the right address is the Education Committee: I understand that there is a process and a willingness to look at that issue there. Then, on the basis of that, I am willing to convert proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal. I hope the other two parties that are behind the proposal can join in. As regards proposal No: 2, I'm going to challenge Huitfeldt a little bit, because she gave me a positive answer in the reply. She wanted to get back to Stortinget in terms of simplification and bureaucracy, in the light of the process now taking place, among others. with LNU, and want to come back with results there. If we could confirm that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget during 2012, I feel that we have solid enough fish to turn it into a transmission proposal. So at the end of the debate I would also like to point out that the concept of social capital has not been spent too much time in this room. I think it deserves more attention. There is an enormous amount of time and political processes, and we have an abundance of regulations to contribute to society's economic value creation and capital. It would not be unreasonable for us to invest even more time and resources in the work of social capital, which is essential for human health and quality of life and meaning in life. In this context, I do not think that part of the criticism that has come up against the concrete proposals we have made is particularly reasonable. I believe that we should be very committed to taking concrete initiatives in such important areas that we cannot fail to engage in areas in which the volunteer has a commitment. There's going to be an interaction, and that's where I think our proposal is good. I would also like to thank you for an interesting debate, a debate with a great deal of goodwill that we will continue to work on and translate into political results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1749	In my back for the next year, 2012, I will have a simplification project for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1754	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1757	In line with what I said earlier, I want to turn proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1762	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1779	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1788	The Committee examined document 8:169 for 2010–2011 from the representatives Horne, Thomsen and Korsberg on the transfer of the tasks of the county council for the protection of children and social affairs to the ordinary courts. As the rapporteur, I give a brief overview of the Committee's position and also expect the parties to explain their views, insofar as they feel they need it. The proposalers are concerned that the cases and decisions they deal with are very serious and have a major impact on the lives of the different clients. Proposalers believe that the legal certainty of children and parents can be enhanced by bringing child protection cases and social matters before the ordinary judicial system, including: because it will raise the status of the whole process, and cases will be treated in a more non-discriminatory manner. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that these matters are serious and important. They deal with coercive cases under the Child Protection Act and the Social Services Act. So it's about things that involve children and adults in very demanding situations. The Committee also shares the views of the proposers on legal certainty of children and parents as a crucial factor in this context. The Committee stresses in its opinion that it is essential that all parties should be respected and that the principles of legal certainty should be respected in child protection cases. When the county councils were established in 1993, the intention was to strengthen legal certainty for children and parents by establishing a body that was independent and independent. It was also important that the students combine legal and professional insight and playfulness. The Council of State points out in its opinion to the proposal that the county councils have existed for nearly 19 years and that the Council of State believes that the experience and evaluations of the scheme have been and are good. In its letter of reply, the Council of State also presents a number of arguments for the continuation of the county councils. Subjects have gained wide experience and specific competence in the field of child protection. The learning system has been shown to be flexible and well adapted to these very special issues. The ordinary courts do not possess the special knowledge of the growth and needs of children, as well as knowledge of the conflicts of values that often arise in difficult child-restraint cases, which the county councils have developed. Furthermore, the time limits laid down in the Child Protection Act are short and it would be difficult for ordinary courts to deal with these matters in such a short time. The Committee points out in its recommendation that, from time to time, there should also be criticism of the county council members, and a single committee stresses the need for an ongoing debate on legal certainty and quality in dealing with matters of such importance to individuals and families. I would like to stress that the kind of discussion we should never really finish, and I think there is good reason to continue the discussions on how the system we have today – even if we want to keep it – can be further developed and improved in order to ensure the legal certainty of the parties both formally and effectively. The Committee points out that the Council of State in its letter also admits that the length of the procedure in many of the cases is longer than would be desirable, and that at present the waiting time in the Chamber is too long in many cases. The majority of the Committee considers that it is unsustainable that shortages of capacity or other problems prolong difficult situations and thus create additional challenges for vulnerable people. This is one of too many bottlenecks in child protection. It is serious once we have identified a potential care failure and the cases are to be dealt with, that one waits for weeks over the deadline, simply because we do not have the capacity to deal with the cases. The government has to do something about that. The Committee proposes that the proposal for a representative be rejected. The majority believe that there is little evidence to suggest that the transfer of child protection cases to the courts will shorten the treatment period. It follows from this that the assessments made by the Council of State to the Committee do not appear to constitute a basis for transferring these cases to the ordinary courts. Then I hope that we will still have a good discussion – a continuous discussion – about how we improve the processes and legal certainty of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1820	I'd like to start by giving the case-speaker credit for a brilliant way of doing good for the Committee's view. Here it is really not so much to add, but I would also like to stress what the representative, Håbreek, says, that it is important to have discussions around the system and around the board, and that we continue, with a critical look, to debate how we can both take care of the legal security of children and increase the pressure when it comes to treatment. The case-handling time in the counties is too long today. Governments also respond to this in their reply letter, which is too long. In my county, Telemark, we could see here in the daytime that the leader of the county that expressed the need for increased capacity. There is something like the government both with the draft budget last year, where we strengthened the budget by 10 million. kr, and this year it is also important to give a clear signal. The Committee also stresses the importance of continuing this strengthening. I want to ask a question to the Progress Party. I assume they're going to do something for their point of view, but one of the arguments they're having in the matter is that we're going to put the participants down because the waiting time is too long. None of the other parties in the committee believe that this is a well-founded argument. I would like the Progress Party to provide some examples or experiences to suggest that such a transfer would make it better when it is due to waiting time. At the same time, a professional question can also be asked. We know that today's students are in prison with a very special knowledge, eating knowledge, in the field. How does the Progress Party feel that the courts will be able to take better care of it? In addition to that, I am pleased that the rest of the committee believes it is important to keep the subjects, while at the same time it is important that we strengthen them for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1833	The representative of Lene Vågslid shall receive an answer to his questions. Nothing is a greater intervention in parents' lives than being deprived of their child. Unfortunately, we often see that this is necessary. Often we can also see that it should have been done much earlier than it has been done. Child protection has great power. Often, an enquiry from grandparents, parents, aunts and uncles who want to know more about child protection has violated human rights. The Progress Party believes that if the extended family can find good and safe solutions for the child himself, the weighty reasons for intervention in the family's circumstances by the protection of children should be the case. One should not forget that children also have rights, and one must be willing to see how the legal security of children in child protection can be strengthened without going completely into the shooting. By taking the step taken by child protection in taking care of the child, putting a case before the county council, we see that it is important that all measures have been tried and that one is sure that child protection is making the right decisions. The subjects of child protection and social affairs today take decisions under the law of 17 July 1992 No. 100 on child protection services, the acquisition of care for a child and the waiver of parental responsibility. The aim of the establishment of the county councils was to strengthen legal certainty for children and parents by establishing a decision-making body that was independent and independent. The county council is a kind of court-like administrative body which can only be reviewed by the courts. As I started with, it's important decisions that the county council members make in the lives of individuals. However, it is also important to ensure that legal certainty for all parties is ensured. These are important arguments for bringing the members into the ordinary judicial system, so that we are sure that legal certainty is respected. For the Progress Party, legal certainty is important and there may be grounds for asking questions about the legal certainty of just a child in having a judicial body outside the ordinary legal system. I have recently been informed that a large part of the cases that are decided in the county councils are being appealed to the District Court today. In such cases, we also see that child protection appeals to law enforcement. Pending the outcome of the law, the decision of the county council shall become applicable. I once had a mother in my office who experienced this. Child protection appealed the case after Mother had won the District Court. Under the appeal from the Child Protection Service to the Lawyers' Court, the county council decision entered into force and the mother lost the child. When the case came up to the law, the mother was told that the matter had been in her favor, but since it had taken so long, the court said that the child, who was then a baby, had been attached to the foster parents. It may have been a correct decision. However, I will still ask questions about the legal certainty of all parties in such cases has been well cared for. Then we can probably say today that the ordinary courts do not have special knowledge of children's growth and needs, as well as knowledge of the value conflicts that often arise in difficult child protection cases. There are important counter-arguments, but this can be solved by providing judges with special training in such cases. Yeah, maybe we should go so far that we set up our own family courts. In any case, such training is important to get in place already today, as one knows that most of the cases that are decided in the council are, in any case, appealed to the courts. The Progress Party believes that it is also important that all parties to a case be heard and put forward their arguments, and that they are maintained in a completely different and better way in the ordinary judicial system than in the districts. In addition, the composition of the county councils as it is today is unfortunate in terms of legal certainty. Today’s practice shows that the county councillors themselves, regardless of child protection, nominate experts. Thus, the child protection service is given a different position from that of the private party in care-taking cases. At least such examples cause me to doubt the independence of experts, and it is worrying that psychologists can be both investigators for the municipality and expert members of the county council. In order to ensure legal certainty, to which the Council of State is also concerned, it is important for all parties that appointed experts are objective and neutral in their assessments. I must say that I am disappointed with the majority position of the Committee on this matter. Not once does the majority mention the word ‘security of law’. There is not one comment on which one asks whether one is sure that the legal certainty of the children is adequately safeguarded. When one today knows that prominent human rights lawyers are asking questions and wondering what's going on, it's naive of the majority to trust so blindly that the decisions being made are the right ones. The Progress Party is aware of and pleased that a commission to look at the form of work has now been set up, but we believe that we must also look at the content and decisions of the counties. With that, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1879	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1882	We all agree that we have a special responsibility to ensure that children are surrounded by legal certainty and good, functioning systems – be it in one context or another. The right has not gone in the direction of changing the situation with the members, i.e. following the proposal of the Progress Party to move to a legal system. This is a matter we've dealt with many times, and we're stuck to our starting point. But that doesn't mean everything's right. Unfortunately, what we experience as a recurring phenomenon is the fact – even from the Riksaudition – that the county council has problems getting the case out. It's waiting lists. Unfortunately, the Riksrevision could now demonstrate that the four-week treatment period is broken by 90 pst. of the cases. It is clear that it is a serious signal, and it does not make the matter any better that this has been pointed out at least since 2008. Rapid and effective treatment is essential, mainly because it signals that the county authorities would get it – let's say – workplace that requires thorough treatment. In other words, waiting lists are also a signal about stress, a signal about time pressure, which does not mean quality of service. The second is that the target population – the children and the families we are talking about – is already a vulnerable group that should have been exempted from additional burdens due to poorly organised public assistance. We see that the number of things is increasing. There might be some explanation for this. An increase of 18 pst. from last year is not a particularly pleasant number. We see that some counties are behind us. My own county, Uppland, and the South-Trundellag are examples of counties that now have 16 weeks' average delay in treatment. It's not good, and it requires its own, especially the government's efforts to do something about it. A short time ago, I had a written question to the Council of State, where the Council of State in its response signalled increased funds. There is some increase in funding, but the question is whether there is sufficient investment. That's relatively modest means we're talking about. Although the figures are not as bad for the rest of the country as for the two countries mentioned above, it is clear that this is significantly backwards to be desired. The population is such a central part of the structure of child protection – we are talking about a separate institution in the field of child protection – that this should have been done better and better. It's as simple and as difficult as that. This is simply too bad. I attend the Council of State posts, which will come a little later in this debate, and hope that he there will not only talk about county law versus court, but that he will also explain to us what he is going to do, and how to fix the system we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1902	The proposal we are discussing today is a proposal that deals with very serious matters – coercive cases under the Children's Protection Act and the Social Services Act. Not much imagination is needed to realize that these are some of the most difficult situations that both children and adults can experience. This is precisely why there is a great demand for the public, for the state and for the courts, for legal certainty and for these families to be met with respect in that system. Otherwise, I have counted the number of times the word ‘security of justice’ appears in the comments of the majority – that is four times. So I don't fully understand the statements by the representative Horne that this has not been dealt with by the government parties. On the contrary, government parties, as part of a larger majority, underline as an important part of these issues. SV does not support the proposals of the Progress Party. It's been 19 years since the names were created, and the experiences we have from there are pretty much good. One of the reasons for this is that the students combine the legal and professional insights with the layman's appearance. Ordinary courts do not have the special knowledge of children’s growth and of children’s needs. Not least, there are very short deadlines in the Child Protection Act, and it is very difficult to imagine that the ordinary courts should have the opportunity, the capacity, to deal with matters as quickly as the councillors. This might be especially worth mentioning now that we are in December. To put it that way: December was for me in 1990 a much longer month than December is now in 2011 – a child year goes a lot slower than an adult year. And this is about children's legal certainty: rapid treatment is essential for children's legal certainty in these issues. The students do an extremely important job. Therefore, the government has given priority to strengthening the procedural capacity of the 2011 budget. It also does so in the 2012 budget, precisely in view of what I was talking about; children's legal certainty and that children who are exposed to violence, or are in their homes where they are not well, will get help as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1913	Issues about children’s rights and legal certainty are very important issues. In particular, they are important for children who are particularly vulnerable and who, for some reason, do not have parents who have the option of primarily exercising the rights of their children. It's especially difficult when what's best for the child doesn't necessarily match what your parents think is perhaps both their best and the best for the child. There are problems that are generally difficult when a worker with rights for children and young people — the definition of what is best for the child — is very difficult. That is why the legal system in general, but especially the authorities that are going to deal with these matters, has a very great responsibility: to participate and look at what you think is best for the child – perhaps especially because it is a tough decision to say that being with your own family is not for the best for the child, but also to tell your parents that you have to find another solution. It goes without saying, therefore, that these are issues that have major consequences, regardless of their outcome. In many cases, respondents are also required to take decisions concerning young people who themselves are not able to express their opinion. Then it is extremely important that you have both a high level of competence and that those who make the decisions know the case complex well. Time to deal with matters is a topic that has been discussed by many. It's a very important factor, and today it might be a little too long waiting time. However, there is little to suggest that a transfer of these child protection cases to the courts should shorten the procedure because the deadlines in the Children's Act are also very short. You know that in the courts you have a rather long waiting time in some cases, while at the same time dealing with a much larger case complex. It will then be important to strengthen the procedural capacity with more resources, which this government has contributed to. However, it is also important that the authorities themselves constantly focus on quality in handling the case, as well as ensuring that you have good competence in children and in the field of child protection, that you are up-to-date on the signals that are coming, and are very aware of how you even talk about both children and parents, and what you choose to focus on in your proceedings. Both the authorities and the judicial system depend entirely on trust — among people in general and especially among those involved in these matters. It is important to take these signals seriously and, above all, to follow developments, because everyone wants to find solutions that can as far as possible take care of what is best for the child. Then you have to see if there is any improvement, and if so, consider whether there is any other grip that can be done – which is not just about money, but also about other things you can do to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1922	Child protection is about one of the most important things that exists, namely the relationship between children and their parents. Therefore, the legal certainty of children and families is crucial. The intention of setting up the county councils was precisely to strengthen legal certainty by establishing a decision-making body that was independent and independent. It was also important to combine a layman’s relationship with legal and child protection insights. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees that the county councils are best placed to decide on these very special child protection issues. Before the formation of the county councils, it was the health and social services of a municipality, or a sub-committee of the health and social services, which decided the enforcement cases under the Children's Protection Act on the initiative of the child protection administration of the municipalities. This scheme was strongly criticised, including: as a result of an unfortunate combination of case preparation and decision-making skills and a difficult role of child protection as both a helper and a coercive. Since its inception in 1993, the population has gained a wide range of experience and expertise in the field of child protection. The filling system has been shown to be suitable for dealing with these specific matters. The evaluation of the evaluation of legal certainty in the treatment of child protection cases in the county, carried out in 2000 and 2001, shows that legal certainty is well respected. On 1 January 2008, new rules of procedure entered into force for the county councils, which were specifically adapted to child protection issues. The new rules shall ensure uniform and appropriate procedure in line with the rules of procedure of the ordinary courts. The modernisation process in the courts has thus also had an impact on the proceedings of the county council. A member of a child-restraint case is headed by a head of state with specific legal competence. The head of the county usually has a member from a selection of experts and a member from a selection of doctors. If an expert investigation is submitted in a case, of course, the person who made it should not sit in the denominator. I believe it is a strength that there are professionals in both the investigation of the case and as part of the decision. In addition, all expert investigations have been reviewed by the Children’s Expert Commission before they can be used in plenary sessions. The decisions of the county council may also be referred to the ordinary courts, and this may be done in a number of cases. In particular, all emergencies and complaints are dealt with within the short deadlines set by the law, but at the same time we know that the waiting time in the counties is too long in many cases. It shouldn't be like that. So a number of things have been done to do something about that challenge. New heads of state have been added, the budget for the counties has been strengthened and not least the counties have recently been reorganised. I expect this to reduce the procedure time. In 2008 and 2009, the National Audit Office mapped out the reasons for the processing time in the counties. The national audit then pointed both to the lack of capacity and to weaknesses in the administrative activity, as a major reason for this. Those challenges are exactly what the government has addressed. In the current year, the budget has been increased by 10 million. kr for the addition of new county heads and, after the reorganisation, the former regional branch has been wound up. The Director has given the Executive Director of each title a clearer and more direct responsibility, and it has also become easier to cooperate across the denominators. I can also tell you that we see a positive development, although it's still a long way to go where we want to be. As of 1 September, there were a total of 722 pending cases, while this figure was reduced to 626 cases on 1 November. We have seen in the last few years that the number of cases has been higher than we expected, and that has contributed to the issues, but the number of cases has stabilised at the 2010 level by the second quarter of 2011. I hope that the grips we have now taken will bring us closer to a state that we may be familiar with. Finally, I would like to say that in the coming years too, the county councils should play an important role as administrative bodies responsible for some of the most difficult, but also important, tasks of our welfare system. It therefore appears that there are currently no good reasons for a transfer to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1940	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1943	In order to ensure legal certainty, for which the Council of State is now very concerned, it is important that all experts are objective and neutral in their assessments. Today's practice shows that in many cases this does not happen, and Article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights states that everyone has a right to a fair trial. Several studies have also shown a significant lack of control of sources of error with regard to the use of observations, tests and assessments. The Progress Party believes that a fair trial requires watertight shots between the psychologists who take the job of child protection and those who undertake to be experts with the courts and the county councillors. My question will then be: Does the Council of State believe that legal certainty is being adequately ensured in the counties, as they work today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1950	Yes, I think we have a system that works well. The main problem with the system is that we can't deal with matters quickly enough. I explained in my article the measures we have put in place to do something about it. With regard to the opinion of the proposers, that psychologists can be both an investigator for municipalities and an expert member of the council members, I have no reason to believe that this poses any significant problem as stability is always to be assessed in each case. Watertight shots are difficult because we must never reduce what we had to do if we were to follow the proposals of the Progress Party, namely the requirements for the competence of those who are to be involved in these matters. The number of people in this group who meet those requirements is limited. That is why we must trust that good and thorough assessments of the state of play are carried out in each case. I have no reason to believe anything but that it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1957	I take note of the signals given by the Council of State, also in relation to the questions I raised in my post. Now it's not 10 million. kr to new management of all the world’s resources in relation to the capacity challenge that appears to be in the vicinity. It is the case handler team that may need to be strengthened several times in order to get matters out of hand. As we see it, at least it's our clear signal that this is an area that needs to be further strengthened, without us having detailed insight into this now. My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees that there is a total capacity that needs to be increased, and what kind of time perspective he sees in relation to solving the delay that we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1966	As I've been about, I believe there have been two main weaknesses. One is exactly what the representative Thommes points to, lack of capacity, but the other is weaknesses in the way this has been organised also in the administrative management of the denominators. We've tried to do something with both of them. The reorganisation we have now carried out, I think, has also helped us to see this positive development, as I mentioned in my article, and which, if it continues, hopefully will bring us to where we are going. But we also have to have a capacity that is in line with the great growth that has been in the number of cases in recent years. Now we'll see the results of the increased allocation we've had in the current year. In addition, we have put a lot of money on top for next year. I will follow this very closely, including in the forthcoming rounds of the budget, in order, if necessary, to allocate more resources if needed to further expand capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1973	I note with interest the wording of the Council of State that he hopes that these measures will bring us closer to a situation we may be familiar with. I have two questions. One is whether the Council of State is certain that the measures it refers to for the structure of the county councils actually increase the treatment capacity or whether it is merely a structural clean-up and not in capacity. The second question is the quality of treatment. We get, as mentioned here, constant impressions and views that, if it's not the same, it's at least the same people who investigate for the municipality and who the municipality meets again as experts in the area – that there's a small environment of experts that commutes between these roles, and that it weakens the quality of the system. Does the Council of State feel that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1980	First of all, I mean, of the numbers that we now have, we can see that the grips that we've inserted are starting to work. For some subjects, the lead time has been significantly reduced compared to the first tertiary, as well as the number of untreated cases from September to November. In addition to the changes I mentioned, we have also made it possible for denominators from the denominators with greater capacity to help with matters in the denominators where the waiting time is long. It has also contributed positively. The case-handling time we see varies widely between the subjects. This indicates, I believe, that it is still a potential for improvement and that it is not only investment in capacity but also smart organisation that needs to be done. So they said this with the expertise. The short answer to that is that it can definitely always get better. I don't think the answer here is watertight shots, but it's clear that more competence will also make it easier to be sure that we don't mix roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1989	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e1994	For two years I've been a member of the family committee, and sometimes I wonder if it's just a signed person who gets all of these phones from desperate aunts, uncles, grandparents and parents. So I know that all the way when I get those phones and I hear adults sit and laugh on the phone in frustration about decisions in the county, always have to think that there are two sides to a case. That's what I'm always trying to bring with me. Nevertheless, I had hoped that this debate would not be a debate on the fact that there is too long a procedure and that there are too many issues in the House. We all agree that we have to do something about it. But we could have had a debate on legal certainty, so that we could be absolutely sure that in the decisions taken in the councils, the legal certainty of the children and the family has been ensured. There are too many examples, and I have to say that when there are also outstanding human rights lawyers asking questions about what is going on, it is our duty as politicians to be able to raise their eyes, ask a critical question, and see if we are sure that legal certainty is being ensured. The council says we can always get better. Yeah, it's great that he can say that we can always get better, but what kind of action should we take to make sure things get better? I believe that an important question in this debate is whether we are sure that the legal certainty of child protection works in the right way. Then I want to thank you for the signals that come both from the Center Party and from the Right, and at the end of the Christian People's Party, that it is important to have a debate about the states working. Now the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to shut down the counties. Yes, it may be that it is too early to promote that proposal, but we know that the Progress Party is often ahead of its time. What is important is at least that we have a body in place to ensure legal certainty. Then we're just going to be sorry that we don't get a majority for that proposal today, but I hope that the Council of State will still take into account the serious concerns that we have raised in the matter that there is a small pool of experts and psychologists, which is a small environment, that he will take with him the issues raised, and that he will be able to assure us in the further work on child protection that the legal certainty of the children will be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2005	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2021	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Thommess, who has the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2032	When the cash support was introduced, three out of four one- and two-year-olds received such support. The right view of cash support as an important contribution to family choice and the ability to sew together a day-to-day suitable for the individual's family. Right will work to maintain the freedom of choice of families because we believe it is for the benefit of children and families. We know that security is important in order to ensure good growth conditions for children, and the Right assumes that the freedom of choice of families should be ensured, not least in the light of the respect we owe to the unique framework represented by the individual family. It also applies to families who have their origins in other cultures. I think there is reason to stress that, because both in connection with this proposal and in some other contexts, the cash support is discussed in the light of the desire to regulate precisely the behaviour of these families. The number of cash support recipients has fallen sharply as the large number of kindergartens we have had in recent years. It does not detract from the importance of the scheme. The number in itself is not decisive for this. The proposers justify their proposal to limit the right to receive cash support on the basis of citizenship for reasons of integration. A small part of the cash beneficiaries is poorly integrated. About 1⁄4 of the cash beneficiaries have an immigration background, and among these again there are many well integrated. Some of the families receiving cash support may be found to have a poor degree of integration, but from the Right's point of view and from the majority's point of view, it is not the cash support that should regulate this. More importantly, there are other and more targeted mechanisms to address these. In the 2012 Right Alternative Budget, we are committed to improving language training, work training and reducing parental pay in kindergarten, as measures to strengthen integration. Free kindergarten for all participating in the introduction programme, increased support for Norwegian training and lower parental pay in the kindergarten for low-income families will provide children and parents from minority families with better Norwegian knowledge and thus better opportunities to master the school and participate in society. These are targeted actions that will integrate more people with a minority background into society. This is good integration policy. Cash support is based on residence. Everyone who lives in Norway is a compulsory member of the population, regardless of citizenship. The right to cash support depends on the child’s residence in Norway. The right, like the majority of the Committee, does not consider that the clear general rule of the Norwegian social security system should be waived, and believes that we need to promote other types of proposals in order to address the challenges posed by the proposers in their proposal. The right is pleased that the proposers also believe that cash support is an important mechanism to ensure the freedom of choice of families and to choose care solutions for their own children. The issues they address with regard to children and integration are also relevant. On the other hand, the proposal for a solution to these challenges disagrees with the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2047	The Labour Party fully agrees with the proposers that cash support inhibits integration, but we fundamentally disagree with the proposers in the conclusion of the proposal, namely that we should discriminate against Norwegian citizens based on skin colour. It cannot be that a mother with a Somali background should not be able to receive cash support, whereas a mother with an ethnic Norwegian background should have the opportunity to do so. For there are also families in Norway with an ethnic Norwegian background who have definitely problems with language development and who have children who have better access to kindergarten than being at home with the family. There's no reason to discriminate here. We agree that the best solution in terms of integration, but also in terms of solving problems that we see in some poor families – children who have problems with language development, social training and such things – is to liquidate the cash support and provide these children with a good childcare facility. There is also a lot of research that is now documenting this. We have mother-child studies that show that three-year-olds from deprived families have a worse language development than three-year-olds who have gone to kindergarten. We have results from research carried out for the first time in 1976–1979, which was followed up a few years ago, which shows that kindergarten contributes to a positive development, not least for children from very poor families. There is also one side of the case that I hope the Progress Party will look at. But we agree with the Progress Party on all the public investigations that have come in recent years on integration. We have four public selections: the Østberg Committee, the Kaldheim Committee, the Brochmann Committee and, for that matter, the Distribution Committee. All four sample sizes conclude that either the cash support should be cut or cut, precisely for the sake of integration. So that's the question of freedom of choice. The most important freedom of choice for Norwegian women, whether from Somalia, Norway or other countries, who live in Norway, is the possibility of having children while working. If you look at this from a perspective beyond Norway's borders, women in both Germany and Italy are envious of us because we have opportunities to do so. This is the greatest freedom of choice. That is why we believe that we should continue to have an offensive extension of kindergartens. We also see that when small children's parents get the option to choose, they do not choose cash support. Then they actually choose kindergarten. Just look at the developments that have occurred since 2000 and up to today, there is only one-third who are receiving cash support today compared to just ten years ago. This means that when a massive expansion of kindergartens is started, families prefer kindergarten rather than cash support. Therefore, I hope that the Progress Party instead of making proposals that are discriminatory and that actually help discriminate against Norwegian citizens, does what the government parties now propose in their budget: to wind up the cash support for the 2-year-olds. It is the best integration action taken in Norway for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2058	First of all, I would like to thank Gunn Karin Gjul from the Workers' Party for its support for integration policy. It just shows that the Progress Party and the Labour Party stand together very much and have equal opinions on integration policy. So to the matter: for the Progress Party, cash support has always been an important scheme, which is intended primarily to make all young children's parents equal in terms of transfers of public funds to childcare. In addition, the Progress Party believes that the cash support is and has been an important arrangement for the freedom of choice of families. It is a good thing that parents who want to spend time with their children in their first years of life are given the opportunity to do so. Although we see that the results of the kindergarten agreement have led to an increase in the number of children in kindergartens, we believe that the freedom of choice of parents is important, and that therefore the cash support must be maintained, as it is today. It's up to parents to choose childcare, but we see that focusing on children's play, learning and socialisation may have been an important explanation that someone in their second year of life chooses to take advantage of the right to babysitting, and for some parents kindergarten is the best thing for their child and family. There are probably some in this room who are going to say that this proposal will not matter after the government is now changing the cash support for next year to only one-year-olds. There is probably also someone who would say that the Progress Party, with the proposal under consideration, has made a proposal in which we are talking to ourselves by promoting a proposal to deprive some families of that freedom of choice. I will not argue against that, but try to explain why the Progress Party is promoting this proposal. Today, we have a challenge with the EEA Agreement in relation to the social benefits and social benefits we have today. And then we see that it's important to look at the bounds of this. Although the opponents argue that there are not so many parents with a minority background who receive cash support, there is still an excessive proportion, as the Progress Party sees it. Many of the parents receiving cash support today are parents with a minority background, with a background from outside Europe, and the reason for choosing cash support over kindergarten has been that in some minority settings they should learn their own culture first. The Progress Party believes, and it also shows a number of studies, that adaptation to and participation in Norwegian society is a challenge for many involved people, and it is particularly challenging for women from countries with patriarchal structures – they can experience the integration process difficult. It is in such a perspective that cash support can appear as an obstacle to promoting integration and thus have the opposite effect. That is what has been the main purpose of the Progress Party in promoting this matter. Although families should have freedom of choice to choose what is best for the family, we all know that it is important that children are given the opportunity to participate in activities outside the four walls of the house as early as possible and are interacting with other children. We have seen that kindergartens for children in this group appear to be effective integration through play, learning, socialisation, language training and interaction – as opposed to cash support, which makes mother usually choose to be at home with children. The Progress Party notes that the majority believes that the Progress Party addresses relevant issues for children and integrates them into the proposal without making concrete proposals for solutions themselves. It's often easy just to close your eyes and think that everything goes by itself, but for these kids and these families that apply, it doesn't go by. The current limitation of the right to cash support does not safeguard the interests of children and women from some minority communities. Against this background, the Progress Party promotes this case to reserve the right to cash support for Norwegian citizens and citizens from the EEA territory. The Progress Party is used to getting criticism of such proposals, but often we get right after a while. For the Progress Party, the most important thing has been to strengthen the possibility of optimum integration, and not least to strengthen the ability of children to function well in Norwegian society. So I'm going to deal with the minority proposal that's in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2088	The representative of Solvency Horne has thus taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2091	This proposal is probably an example of the party's hollow rhetoric in freedom of choice. In any context where I've been in the last few years at least, the Progress Party chooses to claim that it's a sunshine right to choose to be home with the children. Yes, in fact, they run roughly with sticks and shells after the government when it promotes equality policies, for example. Paperpaper: The state dominates, says the usual shelf choir from the Party of Advancement. Today they reveal that the freedom of choice they normally preach is not for everyone. It shows them in questions relating to social security, and it shows them in other debates in the Grand Duchy, as well as in this proposal. The Progress Party is known to be a feminist if it means they can argue for restrictive immigration policies. They later appear to be a problem for the others. By ‘the others’ they often mean Muslims or immigrants. At the same time, the Progress Party is fighting against all the good gender equality policies that have been introduced historically in Norway and are being implemented now. This is a double morale I'm responding to. My question to the Progress Party is this: Is it only women with minority backgrounds who are equalised by working, or is it also Norwegian women? In this context, it may be useful to point out the Fafo report, which shows that Norwegian minority women are more active than Italian majority women. There is no secret that SV is opposed to the cash support. We are because it prevents female professional participation, it hinders equality in Norway, it keeps children who need it outside the kindergarten – and then we not only talk about minority children, then we also talk about children who come from their homes with little resources – and that was the bourgeois government's way of buying out the baby hail in their time. But we in SV are going to be clear that as long as there is a right to cash support in Norway, it will apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2108	Cash support is an important matter for the Central Party. The government has strengthened the cash support for the one-year-olds, and it is a very important matter for many. It helps to strengthen freedom of choice and is particularly important for many in the transition between parental leave and work. That's especially what we get a lot of feedback about, that after the first year when you're going to get back to work, there's a lot of people who want a more flexible system. The government has now agreed to that. It is a well-known case that the government parties have a slightly different approach to the question of cash support, and after the contributions from the representatives from both the Workers' Party and SV, I feel that the room is a little far to promote the primary position in the case. Firstly, I must say that I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is choosing to promote this proposal, because I feel that both the Centre Party and the Advance Party are very concerned about the importance of the cash support. What surprises me is that so much is chosen to promote the integration perspective and not to see that there is actually a very small proportion of immigrants receiving cash support. I agree very much with much of what the right sketches in this matter. Then it is that the argument about language development becomes a little less relevant now after the grip the government has taken, where it is said that the cash support will only apply to the one-year-olds. So that's how many people in any case will choose to be at home. There's also something about having to respect that some families actually choose it, because they sincerely believe that it's best for their family and their kids, that it's necessarily not best for kindergarten in any case. The representative, Gjul, was also interested in the issue of kindergarten and cash support, and said that a majority chose kindergarten. But that's an economic question. I believe that the government in this case has been increasing the freedom of choice for families, precisely by increasing the amount of support, so that even more families have the opportunity to make a real choice if you want to be at home or not. The second thing that surprised me is that the Progress Party with this proposal is helping to reduce the value of the cash support. It is, like, not lifted as a general system that should be equally important to everyone, but begins with a debate that is about delimiting it, rather than saying that it should be a universal system similar to other arrangements. That one chooses to do so, I believe that I agree to weaken the cash support as a scheme, and I think that is a little special. Then the representative took Horne up talking to himself. I really didn't mean to say anything about it, but as she herself mentioned it, two things struck me. Usually we're on each side here. When discussing freedom of choice, it is the government that is accused of reducing freedom of choice, while the Progress Party wants more freedom of choice. There are two things: First of all, it seems like there are some things where the Progress Party knows what's best for the family. We often get to throw it at us that the government parties as well as know what's best for the family. That's why we have such and such arrangements, and we choose to set some limits. But here it seems as if the Progress Party in some things knows what's best for the family. Not when we talk about parental leave, but when it comes to cash support, you know that. The second is that the price of freedom of choice is that people don't always choose what you think is right. That's the way it is in all things. What you might put in some leads or attach some demands to different benefits, because you think it's right from a lot of perspectives. This is clearly also the case for the Progress Party when it comes to cash support, even if it is believed that it is not right to talk about parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2125	Here was a lot you could have commented on in five measured minutes. Based on the last post, I have to say that it would have been festive to be a fly on the wall when the red-greens discuss cash support internally in their meetings. The Christian People's Party is for freedom of choice, because we believe that the parents are simply able to make good and wise choices, and that they know best what is good for their family and children. The Progress Party is in favour of freedom of choice because it is considered that parents know best for their children if they have citizenship of the EEA territory. So a small comment on SV, which is still challenging the Progress Party in different areas. Not least in integration policy, we have repeated — many — examples of SV using cash support statistics to stigmatise immigrants. The statistics are simply referred to: because the x number of immigrants use the cash support, it is by definition an integration issue, i.e., an immigrant who uses the cash support is poorly integrated. It's stigmatization. The removal of the cash support is the answer. What was the question? It could well be a headline on many of the posts that I have heard today – and otherwise – from the red-green about the cash support. The representative Gjul indicates that when parents are given the opportunity to choose, they choose kindergarten. And what does she justify it with? Well, the statistics show that the majority of parents choose kindergarten. Well, I'm waiting with excitement for the red-greens now to remove the optional part of parental leave, because in the majority of families, it's mother who uses it. Dad's just using his assigned father's quota. The majority do it, ergo is what families want. If that's how the red-green think, I'm waiting excitedly for the continuation. Then to the integration argument. There is a constant reference to various NOUs and reports that have arrived. I challenge those representatives who are constantly referring to those reports to read them. In fact, none of the NOUs submitted demonstrate that cash support is a problem for integration. What the reports refer to – they largely address what they have been told to investigate – is that the cash support is an incentive that makes it relatively more profitable to be at home instead of using kindergarten for one-year-olds and two-year-olds. Because it is an incentive to do so, it is proposed to remove it — from a narrow perspective and from the mandate given to it. There is no evidence that this is a problem for integration. On the contrary, as statistics show, most people who use the cash support are Norwegian parents. Those who use the cash support are from completely different parts of the world. If there are anyone who dares to claim that most immigrants who use the cash support are poorly integrated, I would like to see that claim documented. I'll say the opposite. Most immigrants using the cash support are well-integrated families. So the question is, when it comes to the proportion of immigrants who are poorly integrated and who use cash support – because there is certainly also a share of them – do you really think that when you take from them NOK 3,300 a month, the answer is that they get better integrated? If there's a mother who doesn't speak Norwegian and who doesn't get permission from her husband to go out to work, is it that if you remove the cash support, all of a sudden the jar spreads off, the iPad comes out, and you run straight to PricewaterhouseCoopers and become a partner in the agency? This is not the case, and it illustrates that there are entirely other measures that need to be taken to integrate those who have challenges with this. Reference is made to the fact that there are poor families. Well, most of the samples you are still relying on have actually said that if you remove the cash support, you have to introduce compensatory measures. The government has only removed the cash support because it is believed that the children have to go to kindergarten. Then the state budget comes, and then you don't even build kindergartens for these kids. The removal of cash support is the answer – what was the question? If you think that these families are actually resource-responsive, or that poor families are overrepresented, $300 less a month is the only thing red-greens have to offer those families. It's double unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2140	First of all, the representative, Håbräk, mentioned something about SV stigmatizing immigrants. I think SV can be able to answer this by itself, but I'm pretty sure that at least it's not their intention to do so. At least it is not the intention of the Council of State Lighthouses to do so. But that's not why I took the word. I do not know if it is parliamentary language, but I was very slightly annoyed by the representative of the Progress Party. Now at least I'm here, and I'm a little bit less annoyed now, because I've been out for a while. I just want to say that maybe that's how democracy is, that you might want to create parallel rules for different social groups in Norway. We just have to figure out that some parties want to do that. We in the Left don't want that; we don't want parallel societies. Nor do we want different types of set of rules for different citizens. We do not want double standards, which the Progress Party is calling for. However, this comes in several batches. I remember an earlier debate in which the Labour Party was involved. They'd ban sibling childhood. I was involved in that debate and could be involved in banning marriage between siblings for medical reasons. There is a somewhat strange idea in Norway, in any case, to prohibit marriage, except for the marriages we have already banned. The Workers' Party would then impose that prohibition in the Foreign Affairs Act. It was a little strange for me. You wanted it in the Foreign Affairs Act, so those who went abroad and married their cousin or cousin couldn't get to Norway. This would stop sibling childhood across borders. But if there was a cousin or a cousin in Norway, that was okay. I accepted that, because I believe that we cannot create two different types of rules, one that will apply to – what to say – the North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-North-South. This is exactly what the Progress Party is now calling for. They want one rule for citizens who are completely Norwegian, and even if you have lived in Norway for many, many years, you will not be entitled to a welfare benefit. We would like to have a debate on the cash support, but I believe that there must be equal rules for all citizens. And we politicians in this room are at least going to try to go ahead as a good example for other people in society, who are going to try to catch up with us. I believe that the proposal of the Progress Party is an example of something else – at least when they want to raise double standards. The left will, of course, vote against the proposals of the Progress Party. I agree very much with the other things that emerge in the setting, especially what has been said by the representatives who say that you would like to have language mapping of children, and that you want to make sure that all children will have children's playground from the age of 3 if they don't get enough language training – this is what was taken out of Left's program. I also agree that you should have free core time etc. The rest of what's standing there, I think is very good. But we're going to vote against making two sets of rules in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2155	The majority today has a proposal to address which will limit the rights of some of its citizens, solely on the grounds that they lack Norwegian citizenship. I am pleased that the majority of the committee does not support that proposal. Norwegian social security is based on the principle of residence. This means that everyone living in Norway has the same social security rights. It also means that if you move from Norway, you are no longer a member of the population, even if you are a Norwegian citizen. All children living in Norway are entitled to cash support if the other conditions are met. I would strongly warn against imposing an additional condition that the child must be a Norwegian citizen. Such a rule would discriminate against its citizens. I think this is a revealing proposal. The Progress Party tends to present the political contradictions of family policy so that they stand for freedom and we others stand for guardianship. Now we see that what they really think is that they want freedom from the representative Raja so aptly called 'northmen-northmen', and guardianship for the others. I think that is an unacceptable approach. This shows that the Progress Party does not stand for liberalism but a highly selective form of liberalism. It only applies to someone. Then I have to be allowed to comment very briefly on the post of the representative, Håbrupkes. I think it's a little presumptuous to claim that SV has driven stigmatisation of immigrants because we have thought – and believe – that cash support has unfortunate integrational consequences. I also believe that Hope reads the various investigations in a slightly special way. I believe that the sum of what has been presented to us in the investigations is convincing in terms of the negative integrational consequences of the cash support. Cash support is higher among families with a background in other countries, while the participation of women in the same groups is lower and the participation of children in the same groups is lower. All in all, it's a real integration problem, and I think it's easy for the Christian People's Party to pretend that it doesn't exist. So, of course, we can discuss what we're doing with that. I have great respect for the fact that we have different solutions, but just hitting a line over it and saying that it's not a problem, I think it's too simple. In addition, we have a number of integration policy measures that are aimed at addressing these issues. The New Chance programme, for example, of which I am a hot follower, has just women in this situation as a target group. Women who are not caught by the qualification programme because they have not been home for a long time with social welfare or social security, but for example. has been at home with cash support, is given an opportunity to enter into the professional life. We have a very good response to that. Free core time for children in areas where we have a combination of living conditions challenges and a high minority share also proves to be very successful. It shows that it is fully possible to build up offers that enable these families to do well without the cash support. In conclusion, I would say that unlike the Progress Party, I am of the opinion that the cash support does not only have adverse consequences for them without a Norwegian passport. I have never thought that the cash support debate should be just a debate on integration, it is also a debate on gender equality and on good family policies. Therefore, the changes that come into the cash support from next year cover all children and non-disparity treatment according to nationality. We should be happy for that, regardless of the view of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2186	Let me first of all say that the Progress Party does not have to become a feminist in order to argue for a stricter immigration policy. But when said, the term ‘resourceless families’ has been used several times in the debate. That's an expression I like very badly, and it stigmatizes a lot of families. I want to hear what the Council of State puts in the term ‘resourceless families’?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2191	I don't remember using that term. If I have that, I would say that I agree that this debate is not about families that are poor in general, but often about families that, for various reasons, have worse assumptions than others for example. the success of employment in Norway. This could be done, for example, by: is about families with a refugee background coming to Norway from countries with damaged education systems. We have a labour market in Norway that requires a high level of competence and specialisation. It is a challenge in integration policy. But it is a challenge that can be solved, and which I am far more optimistic about than the Progress Party tends to be, among other things. because today we have an introduction programme that works, we have a programme of the type New Chance, as I mentioned, offering qualifications, language training and the basic prerequisites for success in Norway. But it's also important to avoid that we have incentives that go in the opposite direction, for example. to pay people not to use the opportunities we try to give to get into the world of work. I do not suspect the Progress Party to be feminist in any context. I can assure the questioner, but I still think it's a bit striking that the party uses the equality arguments a little selectively. They come with a density in the integration debate that we are not used to seeing from that party in all other debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2198	I'm not going to use the line's one minute to correct all the inaccuracies in the state council posts, but I have a couple of questions. As far as I remember, there are 8 000 two-year-olds who receive full cash support who lose it. The government is planning to build 1,160 new kindergartens because of that change, so there's a very small proportion of two-year-olds going to have new kindergartens. What families among those who use the cash support do the council think it's going to be looking for kindergarten, and where the parent who's at home is going to look for work? Is it the well-integrated families, who speak Norwegian well and have education and opportunities to get to work quickly, or is it the poorly integrated families, who may even have a mother or a father who speaks poor Norwegian and does not have good opportunities to enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2205	Very familiar there was no inaccuracies in my post. On the other hand, the representative said earlier that the families who are receiving cash support were well integrated. Now, when the representative asks me what we will do for those who are poorly integrated, it is a recognition that they also exist. We have no clues to believe that families with immigrant backgrounds, families like this. are outside the labour market and will not make use of nursery services. On the contrary, in those areas where we have introduced free core time, it turns out that we are getting far from full participation in kindergarten from everyone. It is fully possible to get participation from those children who are most in need of kindergarten, and who often come from those families where it is most important to get mother into work, both for integration and for gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2212	Just let me say that freedom of choice for families is incredibly important for the Progress Party, and is one of the things we fight for. But precisely in this particular case, integration is ahead of freedom of choice because it is so important to have these families integrated into Norwegian society. The representative Gunn Karin Gjul of the Workers' Party agreed with the Advance Party that cash support in such cases should be removed in order to ensure integration. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul from the Workers' Party that cash support can prevent the integration of individual families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2219	I usually agree with the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul. I am also in this debate. Let me make one point: the Progress Party tends to turn all integration debates into a debate on asylum seekers, about people with a refugee background or about people who have migrated from Asia, Africa and Latin America. The vast majority of immigrants coming to Norway today come from the EEA territory, including most cash beneficiaries. The Progress Party has now taken on board the consequences of – as opposed to earlier this year’s debates – and has recognised that such a change in the rules will also have to provide cash support to EEA citizens. However, it reveals the rhetoric of the Progress Party in the integration debate, because it acts as if the integration challenges are only linked to the refugee background group, while we know that perhaps the most important thing for integration policy in the next few years is to succeed in integrating the Eastern European workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2231	I have to point out to the Council of State's comment on core time that there is still, I am aware, no offer of free core time in cash support age. On the contrary, there are children aged four to five and some places children aged three to five. It is also wrong that I stated in my post that no cash beneficiaries are poorly integrated. On the contrary, I said that there is probably a small proportion of those that are poorly integrated. How many there are, I don't know, but there are other measures that need to be taken. That is exactly why I asked my question to the Council of State, to which the Council of State gave a very unsatisfactory answer. When the government adds up to 1,160 new kindergartens for 8 000 kids who lose the cash support, which of the 8,000 families is the one who is looking for kindergarten, and where you go to work? Are there those families that are poorly integrated, who have a long way into the labour market, and who may speak poor Norwegian, etc., who will then seek out the kindergartens, or are the well integrated families who accept cash support, who may have leave from a job, and who speak Norwegian well? I'm just asking. I'm still waiting for an answer. Then I'm still waiting for evidence of the claim that cash support is an integration problem. When you read the NOUs that you always refer to, it's actually the incentive in the cash support they disagree with. Nor do they prove that the cash support itself is the problem, or that the removal of the cash support solves the problem. But they want to remove that incentive, and that's the rationale. At least one of the samples points out that here it is clear that cultural conditions are as important as economics. Documentation for claims is always welcome. When it comes to the question of how to use statistics, and what seems stigmatizing, I refer again to the recent submissions, and where it is found that because there are a good number of immigrant groups using the cash support, we have an integration problem. That is the argument that is being promoted. Then you can judge for yourself whether it is stigmatizing or not. The simple conclusion is that the removal of cash support for two-year-olds is about one thing, about ideology. It's that you don't like to let your parents choose for themselves, and then it's a lot more honest to admit it than to try to make a system of reasoning that doesn't hold true.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2244	We would like to discuss whether or not we should have the cash support, but from this debate it seems that cash support is the decisive pillar of integration, that it is crucial whether or not we succeed in integration. It's not! The integration question is much more. It's about language, it's about education, it's about work, it's about law enforcement. As a rule, where it stops for most politicians here in Norway, because there are the four parameters it is possible to measure things on: How much language training have you gone on? How many hours have you taken? Has higher education been taken or not? How many are at work, how many are unemployed? To what extent is crime committed? So you forget that the main part of the integration debate is also about value issues: what do new citizens think about human rights? What do you think about equality? What do you think about democracy? Those things we don't dare, many don't dare, to a large extent to take hold of. One of the perhaps biggest challenges today – we have some integration challenges and will have them in the years to come – is about child poverty. The statistics that came from NOVA some years ago show that every third non-Western immigrant child in Norway is growing up below the poverty line – and that is why we are failing to achieve integration in the future. It is not the cash support that is the determining cause. It doesn't decide anything. We can have that debate too – we have had it before. We have had it in this room, and most of the government parties voted off the proposals when we put them forward, but when you come back again and later as if the cash support is the decisive pillar in whether we succeed in integration or not, I get a little provoked. That's other stuff. But we would like to discuss cash support, and we would like to discuss whether the state should pay for the individual's ability to have the child at home, etc. We can have a lot of opinions on that. You know how I feel about it, but I do not think it is crucial that we succeed in integrating it. If we are to discuss integration challenges, we must start in the right place, and this is about poverty among immigrant children in Norway. When every three non-Western children grow up below the poverty line in Norway, there are major, major challenges to this. Then we're talking about densely populated struts, we're not least talking about domestic violence. I'm not generalising now, but I'm talking about the risk factors that many immigrant children grow up with, that is, densely populated strokes, poverty, domestic violence. Not least, there may be a social rhetoric in the debate in Norway where the Progress Party is in the driving seat, which contributes not least to creating a we-dem relationship. Nor does it contribute to building the loyal, good citizen in Norway. I think we all have a responsibility here if we are to succeed in integrating. I don't think we alone should blame the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2256	I would warn the representative Hope not to use the stigmatisation stamp on those who believe anything other than him about the cash support. Then I don't think the representative will recognize proper stigmatisation when he sees it – he would at least be empty of terms to cover it. It must be possible to discuss integration policy challenges without falling to such a rhetorical level. I mentioned free core time. Although free core time is an offer to some older child, it shows that it is not a foreign idea to use kindergarten for families with a minority background, nor for those who are at least integrated into working and social life in Norway. This means that it is also possible to get the younger children in this group into the nursery. It'll be a positive development. Then we have to discuss measures that make us get to it. Nor have I and other representatives of the government parties ever said that building down the cash support solves the integration problems – of course not. It's one contribution, because it removes an incentive to keep women out of work and children out of kindergarten. After all, the five investigations mentioned all conclude that the cash support should be eliminated. It's a pretty heavy piece of advice, precisely because you want us to have incentives that go in a different direction instead. So I would say that for precisely these families, the cash support has not been a tool to choose for yourself, but a poverty trap that has kept many women away from using the offers that exist in the Norwegian community, to get practice in language training and work. Then it's an important challenge for us to make sure that those who are no longer going to have cash support get other opportunities. We already have a broad instrument available, but of course we should also look at the possibility of strengthening it when these changes occur, from the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2269	Øyvind Håbreck has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2272	I've said most of what I have to say in the debate, and I'm not going to supplement so much more, except to say that when the Council of State uses the word 'poverty trap', I would just point out that since there are no children's playgrounds for all these kids, the consequence for many of the families it is about is NOK 3,303 less paid every month. Then you can reflect on the concept of 'poverty trap' in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2277	I'm not going to spend a lot of time, but I was going to say that the debate might have been a test of the discussion we're going to get when the cash support proposal is going to be dealt with, as well as the budget. I think it is particularly important that the Christian People's Party, which is associated with the government parties in the vote on this proposal, chooses to use its debate time to promote opinions that SV is a stigmatizing party, when the proposal on the table of the Progress Party means to discriminate against the country's citizens on the basis of citizenship. If I were in the Christian People's Party, I might spend time on it. Then we're going to have plenty of time to discuss the cash support further in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1051]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2304	“Children are the hands with which we grasp the heavens.” This saying from the 1800s is both striking and relevant in our time. If society and social development are to move in the right direction, our children are the most important tools. There are children the future is created from time to time. It is therefore essential that we, as society and legislative power, put the best framework conditions for our children. This is an intention I know this whole hall supports. Nevertheless, there are some challenges, which is why I'm trying to raise a bit of a visionary and forward-looking interpellation on the child's framework for the Storting. The vast majority of children in Norway are doing well. However, there are those who need a safety net for various reasons. It has therefore been important for the Progress Party to debate the role and function of child protection as the safety net it should be for children outside. Let's first of all say that the most important task of child protection is to preserve the best of children and children's rights at all times, anyway. In 2010, there was a record growth in child protection services. It is important that we look at the reasons for this. There have also been many media redundancies in recent years, which, overall, have given the impression of child protection in crisis. We've seen an increasing state bureaucracy, and that evolution has moved towards a state colossal, which is not at all playing on the sidelines of municipal child protection. This is a development not supported by the undersigned. Closeness and security are essential factors for the success of child protection. This development must therefore be reversed rapidly. Although we know that the last budgets have been given an increase in municipal child protection, and I'm glad that we have put a ring mark in place, we've seen in recent years that it's been moving towards deprioritising the first line service and municipal child protection. The majority has had many debates on opposition proposals, but nothing from the government except the increase in the budget. The Council of State came – in January, it was well – to the Stortinget with a separate statement. Multiple selections and a child protection panel have been added, which is now completed. I do not doubt for a second that the board of directors Lightbakken is concerned about child protection, and that is something I am very pleased about, but I still believe that it is not done enough. This applies to both municipal child protection and the necessary structural changes that may be possible to make without decisions in the Stortinget, and not least to the unfortunate development of building well-functioning institutions before a foster home has been put in place. These are big challenges that we have to deal with. The government has said it's going to make a proposition. That is well and good, because then we can get concrete action. The Progress Party has been waiting for this, and we are looking forward to the coming of the Proposition. However, it is important that we have a thorough debate ahead of what the government is working on. In that context, I would encourage the Council of State to listen to these recordings, so that the final result from the government can be as good as possible. It could be, as the opposition has said many times before, that you can get good input from this pulpit. I think it's definitely time to go from word to action. I hope, therefore, that this debate will help us to put in this will some framework conditions that will give all our children the best prospects for the future. The future child policy must be based on some basic values, values that ensure safe growth conditions. It has to be based on the flexibility of the society we live in. Future policies must facilitate the freedom of choice of families, but also the accountability of parents to children. There must be a massive effort to prevent both at home, in school and in kindergarten, and not least at the work of health-care providers and health-care centres. Future policies must also provide the necessary financial framework, whether in the area of child protection, health care or measures to combat child poverty. We never get away from the economic discussion. A key challenge for the future is how we can achieve a far closer and better cooperation with the various levels. In too many cases, we make children and families turn into swing-door residents, who are thrown from office to office without an overall approach. The goal of future child policy must be to prevent families from having problems and being deprived of children as far as possible. With the increase we see in child protection services, one sometimes has to ask the question: Where will this end, and what can we politicians do to change that development? Some say that when we see an increase in child protection issues, it may be because child protection has now begun to do its job. I think it's a little too simple to analyse. If more and more parents are being deprived of their children, child protection may not necessarily have done a good job — society may have failed and done a bad job in advance. The protection of children in the future is a policy area in which this room should spend much more time and should be more concerned with this in other fractions or committees. The government will lay down well-functioning institutions – I've been in for that – and have more children in foster homes. It's been a wild policy of this government. The council has several times told the undersigned that he wants more people to be placed with close relatives and relatives, and believes that there must be more stress. Those are beautiful words and words that the Progress Party likes to hear, but we still see that unfortunately the reality is different. In any case, child protection has not received these signals to a large extent. Child protection makes its judgements, and then it's not useful if we don't give any instructions from this room to child protection. We have also seen that child protection workers have grown online – people who sell services to desperate parents who fight against child protection. They advertise that they facilitate escape to the rest of the world. That's not the kind of child protection we want, is it? When we have a child protection that is seen as the enemy, there is something fundamentally wrong. We therefore need to change child protection in a number of areas, so that in the future it will be seen as a supporter for parents, families and children who need some help, rather than being the enemy, as many see child protection as it is today. An important element that needs to be highlighted is the legal certainty of the child. We have had this debate earlier today. The practice of child protection and the exercise of power is, in many respects, the goat that fits the oat sack, which is a poor legal principle for children. Child protection has too much power. Families are defenceless in the face of municipal child protection, say several human rights experts. It seems that child protection is more involved in a police role towards adults than in a care role around the child. In many cases, individuals in municipal child protection have too much power, and in many situations parents and grandparents are similarly powerless. Families often feel defenceless in the face of child protection. There's not much that you can do if you disagree, because the subjective opinion of child protection is stressed heavily in all instances. As the system is set up today, it is said that child protection never does wrong. It's a creepy attitude. Therefore, the undersigned considers that a comprehensive review of the existing structures of power, as well as the need to ensure the legal security of children and families, should be priority areas for the state councils in due course. Research shows that children who lose contact with the family, such as aunts, uncles or grandparents, have more problems than other children — children who lose contact with the community, school and friends, as well. It is therefore important that we facilitate the observance of both the principle of subsidiarity and the biological principle when we further develop policy. With this, I close the main post and look forward to hearing what the Council of State thinks about the challenges we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2353	The main objective of the government’s policy on growth is to ensure that all children and young people are safe and equal growing conditions. A good growing-up environment depends on us letting children and young people be part of the decision-making process. By giving children and young people influence and ownership to their own local environments, we create security and belonging. In order to assess young people’s power and participation in a broad perspective, the government has set down a public body, what we have called the ‘youth power investigation’. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess measures that can help to increase the influence of young people and the ability of young people to master their own lives. I look forward to receiving the vote in December this year, and I am also looking forward to important political debates about that position. The Child Protection Act shall be a safety net for the most vulnerable children in society. Today, about 50,000 children and young people receive help from child protection. Child protection reaches more than before and has confidence in the population. We expect that the number of children in need of help will continue to increase. There is also a need for more people to help. That's why one of the most important tasks for the government is to strengthen child protection. We'll do that through the Children's Protection Lift of the Red-Green Government. The child-restraint lift is divided into three: Firstly, there is a resource promise for the second, there is a reorganization measure for the third, what we have called ‘New Priorities’, a review of different principles of child protection and a discussion related to changes, or new orientations, of them. To concentrate on the resource promise first, the government earmarked 240 million. kr to municipal child protection in 2011. The funds have given 400 new jobs and an increase in the number of annual jobs of over 12 p.m. from 2010 to 2011. The government proposes to step up further efforts in municipal child protection in 2012. There will be 70 new jobs in addition to the 400 created in 2011. These means will be a major priority for the small child protection services, those with less than five employees. This is the largest child-restraint lift of 20 years and strengthens the first line of our child-restraint, the municipal child-restraint. Child protection deals with some of the most challenging issues facing the public. In order to assess the best possible care situation of a child, the employees of child protection must have up-to-date knowledge in order to detect care failures, violence and abuse. This year, therefore, the government has granted 52 million. to increase the competence of child protection. Better capacity and more knowledge enhance the quality of the work of child protection, and it strengthens the legal certainty of children. Most of the expenditure on municipal child protection is financed by general transfers to municipalities. The earmarked posts are an important contribution to providing child protection with good help to vulnerable children, but they are not alone enough. Long-term strengthening of child protection will also depend on the future efforts of municipalities. In addition to devoting sufficient resources to child protection, municipalities should also look for other tools to strengthen services. Intermunicipal cooperation can be one such act. Other interventions include strengthening cooperation on vulnerable children and young people, increasing the competence of child protection and improving the quality of services and actions. The second part of the child protection promise is about reorganization. In order to provide timely and timely assistance to vulnerable children and young people, it is essential that municipal and state child protection cooperate well. In 2004, the country took over the former municipal tasks. One of the main objectives of the reform was to provide good and equivalent child protection services across the country. The reform has been going on for some years and it is time to assess whether there is a need for change to ensure that the objectives are achieved. We have a lot of debate about this in Children's Protection Norway. Many people believe that the distribution of responsibilities between the municipality and the state should be different. Many people believe that today we do not organise ourselves in a way that leads to optimal use of resources. And many believe that there are too many conflicts between the different parts of child protection. At the same time, there are dilemmas in this, including: because small municipalities and large municipalities say they have different views on, for example: the State Children’s Protection Offer. To provide the best possible basis for discussing new organisation, I have launched a major evaluation of the reform. The task and responsibilities between the State and the municipality have been given considerable space in the evaluation, and I will use the knowledge that the evaluation gives me to assess the need for changes. The aim is to find the most appropriate way to organise future child protection – for the benefit of children. As I have previously briefed the Storting, the next time in this work will be that we send proposals for any legislative changes and future organisation to be consulted for next year, and then aim to promote a proposition with proposals for reorganization in time for the Storing to deal with it before this process is over. We also need to discuss the fundamental principles of child protection – and that is the third part of the child protection promise, what we have called ‘New priority’. Many have raised the question of whether the threshold for taking care of children is too high. At the same time, it is quite right, as the representative Horne points out, that many dubious parents have expressed that children have been unjustly placed outside the family and that the family has not received the help they wanted. The representative Horne is not alone in getting that kind of enquiry. Therefore, the government has reduced a public sample that is now investigating the biological principle of child protection. The selection is led by Magne Raundalen. The principle is to help the family while the child is living at home or whether it is best for the child to stay away from home for a shorter or longer period of time. The committee shall elucidate that principle from different perspectives and background to up-to-date knowledge and shall deliver its mandate on 1 February 2012. I expect that the investigation will include, among other things: identify the complex issues and dilemmas faced by child protection when assessing the best actions of the child. It will also provide the basis for a further discussion on how to balance the biological principle against the other principles underlying child protection in the future, not least the most important and most fundamental principle of child protection, namely the principle of the best of the child and the obligations we have in relation to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. An important guide in all child protection work must be to involve the children concerned. Therefore, another important part of the discussion on ‘New priority’ is the question of whether the rights of participation of children are adequately respected in the current protection of children. I believe that we still have a long way to go, and therefore that question will be at the heart of the rest of this big period. In order for children under the care of child protection to have the best possible offer, we need to listen to what the children themselves say and what they think. For example: to get recordings from children and parents with experience in child protection, I put down the Children's Protection Panel last autumn. The Children’s Protection Panel delivered its report earlier this autumn, with proposals for improving child protection. The influence and involvement of children is a horizontal theme in the report. I see the child protection panel recordings as important in my work to strengthen and further develop child protection. The Child Protection Panel's report, together with the evaluations and the second investigation we have made in the period, will be a crucial part of the knowledge base of the legislative proposals that we will be sending to consultation, and the proposition that the Storting will have on the protection of children in the future. We're going to have a welfare state that provides safe and healthy growth conditions for all children and young people. We need to pay special attention to vulnerable and vulnerable children. Through new knowledge from, among others: research, expert selection, and not least from children and young people themselves, we have a good basis for developing future child policy and child protection for the future. In 2013, the government will present a legislative proposal to the Storting on adaptations to the organisation of child protection. In 2012, we will submit proposals for consultation, which will form the basis for that proposition. It also means that we have a good basis for future political debate and, hopefully, a good basis for finding broad solutions and broad agreement on what will be the future child protection. We will also present other proposals aimed at strengthening children's rights in the future, and through the proposition that comes, the Storting will have the opportunity to debate widely the protection of children in the future and how vulnerable children and young people are best cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2391	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State and look forward to the proposition to come. It is now the case that it is the opposition's privilege to be allowed to stress such a case, because there have been four councillors – and this government has now been sitting for six years – without one having managed to get a specific case concerning child protection. But that's not what I thought I was going to say right now, because what's important is that we can have a debate where we can listen to each other and accept good input. Because the intention of all the parties in this room is to do the best for the children. Therefore, I would like to make some input to the Council of State related to both the presentation of the proposal and other measures to ensure the future framework conditions for our children. I also hope that some of the elements may be affected during the debate we are going to have. Although the matter of the county councils, which we discussed before today, is going to be voted down, I still think it is important – and this also demonstrated the debate – to get a discussion on the form of the county councils in order to improve legal certainty for children and families. Then I want to bring up something called family council. I spoke to a person who was going to use the family council, he had heard about family councils – that's something that's been in New Zealand for over 20 years – but it's very difficult to find information about family councils. Therefore, I hope that at some point you may be able to discuss whether it is necessary to legislate on the right to family councils, at least make it much more accessible, and to disclose access to family councils for those who need it. So I think it's important to establish a sample so that we can look at the legal certainty of child protection. The requirement that close family and relatives be tested first must be clarified and underlined. Children must be heard much more than is the case today, and parents must be given the right to a support person. I would also like to say that there is an incredible amount of good work being done by child protection out there around the country. But I think it's important that we also have a level of competence for child-restraint workers. Measures must also be more adapted to the needs of children and not to the system. More efforts need to be stimulated at an early stage in many establishments, but especially in the field of child protection, and after-shave protection needs to be upgraded. The biological principle must be strongly emphasised. If a mother is taken away from her child, it is often not checked whether a father is in the picture that is up, or whether there is a family. It is strong to read a comment in VG from Ingunn Saltbones on "Children's protection against the genus". [[at]] We also need to think of inter-municipal cooperation, larger units and in a way that makes competence in place. I hope we can have a good debate, so that together we can contribute to facilitating better child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2410	I'm taking those recordings with me – I think the representative Horne has provided a constructive interplay and constructive input. There is one thing that is quite striking in the debate on child protection, and that is how much it has changed in a ten-year period. Before, the debate on child protection was largely about child protection intervention. Today, the criticism of child protection is very often that child protection is too small. We see that the confidence of the children's protection population has increased considerably, and I also believe that the acceptance and willingness to say that everything within the family is not a private matter is greater than before. Society has a responsibility for the children who suffer. But at the same time, child protection can still do wrong, and therefore it is also important to listen to the biological parents who feel that they are ill-treated by child protection. I also think that the changes in the rhetoric of the Advance Party in this field are a clear sign that the times are changing, and that what Horne here says is much more nuanced than the position the party had a few years ago. I would like to welcome it and would like to acknowledge that it is important that we also see the dimension of caring for the rights of biological parents. I was concerned that they should be represented at the Children's Protection Panel, and I am concerned that that piece should be a clear part of the investigation that is now coming from Magne Raundalen's selection. It is a clear part of the mandate given to the sample. So, I guess that sample is also an answer to the sample that the representative called for Horne to look at the legal certainty of biological families, how it is taken care of. These issues are also intended to be addressed and discussed in the context of the biological principle. The interpellant mentioned competence, and I am also very concerned about that. We now have a significant challenge through all the new, young employees entering municipal child protection. It goes without saying that when we get 500 new employees in a short time, there are many who come out and have to make important decisions, who have little experience. This is why one of the measures we have now taken is that we will establish our own continuing training for experienced child protection workers, where they can learn to pass on knowledge so that they can take responsibility for providing guidance when they start. Another competence challenge is linked to multicultural competences in child protection, because we see that more families than before have a minority background. There we also have our own continuing training scheme in place, as well as measures to recruit more child-restraint workers with a minority background. That representative mentions family council and information about it, I take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2425	I want to start by commending the interpellant to address a broad and important question of future child protection. In order to improve the quality of child protection in the future, it is an important factor to talk to young people and ask them how they experience child protection. The way they experience their offer is decisive in order to get the best possible help. In winter, the first user survey of children and young people over nine years of age was carried out in state and private child protection measures. The results are, and will be, important for further raising the quality of child protection. The investigation is also important for those who are going to work in the field of child protection, and for us as the populace. It is important to continue this way of examining the service. The interpellant also addresses the question of the biological principle. I myself have asked questions about the use of this principle in previous debates in the Grand Duchy, and I look forward to the assessments as, among other things. The expert selection should do around this. It is the best thing for the child to be the superior, governing principle of child protection, and for it to be followed, I think it is right in several respects that the biological principle has to give up. The Child Protection Panel’s view of time-limiting and the right to appeal are interesting, and these points of view become important in future discussions on the protection of children. For some children it's not always the best way to get back to their biological parents, but for others it's best that they have close contact with them throughout the course. Kids are different, and parents are different. Our task must be to facilitate the provision of child protection, which at any time works according to guidelines that are best for the child, and which, if we are to take action, fit the need for exactly that child, for the principle is called ‘for the best’ and not ‘for the best for the child’. I would also say, as the representative Horne, that the methods around the use of family councils are very interesting. Here I think we have the potential to develop additional new methods. I also think, like the interpellant, that the use of relatives and family in the first instance is a strength. The committee has been in Bergen and looked at the work on the methodology used there. I also don't see this as a contradiction to the points of view I have otherwise when it relates to the use of the biological principle. This has been a significant increase in the number of children who receive child - protection services. According to the KS key figures report for 2011, we see that the child protection services in municipalities have been better organised, they have become better driven and better identified the need for child protection services. One can also see that child - protection services and other services such as police, kindergarten, and school cooperate better. That's very good. It also means that child protection now receives more messages than before. But we can also read that there is an increasing trend in society with the need for services, resulting from changes in social, social and living conditions. I also mean that the old neighboring ring has to go back. Yes, we just have to care more. In spite of the fact that the number of messages has increased, the darkness is still there. We know that more people still do not report when there is a suspicion that children or young people may be suffering from care failure. For the future of young people, we need a strong and high-quality child protection service, but we also need a society that looks and protects young people. We have to keep reminding each other that we have an obligation to report. I think it's important for future child protection that the government has taken initiatives to evaluate the whole child protection reform. What should child protection be in the future? If it's supposed to be today, it's going to be organized in another way, it's going to have the same tasks, right? In addition to this evaluation, as the Council of State said, there has been a decrease in the number of selections that will give us an idea of what future child protection will be. I look forward to those recordings, and I look forward to the further debates and the big messages that will come in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2448	Let me first say that it's an important topic that the interpellant addresses, or rather, it's an important field, because there's a lot of possible input into this debate. But the interpellant himself has put emphasis on child protection in his post. Let me just start by saying that from the Right we are also concerned with the influence of children, and we look forward to it being the subject of a debate and a process in connection with the announcement of a matter. Unfortunately, as far as child protection is concerned, there has been a repetition of the six years we have, I kept saying, driven by this government. Let me start by saying that there have also been many positive things, even though we have had many debates that have been triggered by alarming feedback, where the opposition, and certainly also the government parties, has over the years received many messages that have not been particularly pleasant and that have made this a recurring topic. Then we see that there have been increased appropriations, and things go on. However, there is still good reason to raise the question of the interface between the municipalities and the state organisation. The Council of State was even inside of it in its post and announced a matter of this about approx. one year. In view of the fact that we have now been doing this for six years, I must say that one year is quite a long time. We know a lot of the issues that arise, and I'm a little surprised that we're going to have to wait that long. But when this is the case, it is important that you promote a case in a long time, not be able to cost things under the carpet and let yourself be passive about waiting for an investigation. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the question of the need for practical pilots – simply practical work that will provide us with experience and input into the work that is now being done in this investigation. We have mentioned many times from the opposition's side the pilot project that went to Trondheim. It's an example from a big city. But another interesting move these years is that we see that very many small municipalities have made interesting attempts. They have organized their work together – in networks to say – where we see examples of both three, four, five, and perhaps more, municipalities, for everything I know. It is both about cooperation in isolation between small municipalities and about cooperation between small municipalities and large municipalities. This could perhaps be better taken into account: perhaps one could systematize it in terms of greater public attention by running some of these also as pilot projects and through it actually reaping some of the experience that has now been gained over the six years that have passed. A perspective I would like to address, in addition to this, is child poverty. Unfortunately, according to the Evening Post, we can see an increase of 6,500 poor children this year. It is not particularly pleasant, and there is a need for targeted action. In the right-hand alternative budget, we're proposing to spend $249 million. kr more than the government of such measures. This is about strengthening municipal child protection by 110 million. NOK 30 million. DKK to ensure schoolless child-restraint education, 20 million. kr to strengthen the follow-up of foster homes and 24 mill. to ensure the participation of children and young people in leisure activities, to mention something. It is important to be able to continue working with good targeted actions in a comprehensive growth policy. This suggests strengthening the municipalities, and it is also an argument for adding child protection to the municipalities, simply because the municipalities have a better starting point for looking at the growing-up conditions of the children. Then we get back to the many other perspectives that we could have discussed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2467	I also want to give praise to the interpellant for taking up a broad and very important issue. I would have liked to see even more of the parties in the house represented in the debate. I am also pleased that the problem is highlighted even wider than with child protection, but that we see that this is largely about growing-up conditions. Democracy is a great invention, but one of the challenges is that it's the strongest voices heard best. As we know, there is rarely a torch for child protection. That's why it's a challenge for us politicians to listen behind the high calls and ask not only about who calls the highest, but about who needs us the most. We have had national projects and objectives for full health care coverage; we have had a broad national policy project for full child care coverage. It's time for child protection! The Christian People's Party is still waiting for an obliging escalation plan for full coverage also in child protection, and we are continuing that fight. Many important processes have been set in motion, and we have great expectations of the proposition and the message that the Council of State has notified. But I have to say that I am also afraid that we will get a structural issue from the government that will put child protection in motion with demanding changes, without the binding ambitions of the government that one will actually enable them to do the job in the new structure. I don't doubt that there will be great goals, but committed ambitions with deadlines are what we need for child protection to get the commitment and political promise we need. Sometimes the investigations that the Council of State has initiated are described as negative values in this house. Now I probably haven't been the exponent for it. But at least it should be said that the Child Protection Panel's report is very good, and I hope the Council of State uses it. I hope he listens to the advice that has come, saying that offers and market thinking in child protection harm the interests of young people. I hope the Council of State listens to the fact that the trend towards reducing institutional use has gone too far — that is, that development has gone too far for foster homes. I hope the Council of State listens to what they say about foster home conditions. It cannot be that foster homes are a half-way institutional location, where foster parents have vacations, etc. We have to clean up the concept and clarify what is foster home, and what is institution. Cultural sensitivity is another important keyword. I hope the Council of State listens to the Council for closer cooperation with family protection, where family protection must also be able to follow up the challenges at the intersection of child protection. Then I hope the Council of State does not listen to the advice of the Child Protection Panel that families adopting should be able to receive support after adoption. It's a fundamental breach with the whole core of the adoption institute. The panel has not made any significant contributions regarding perhaps one of the main bottlenecks in child protection, namely the lack of foster homes. But it requires increased political attention, and I've said a lot about that before, so I'm not going to repeat it. It's a huge challenge how we meet the growth we expect in child protection. I just want to say that there is one key point there that is important if we are to meet the enormous growth, and that is mobilizing the resources that are close to the child, through the family council, through the big family, through neighborhoods, communities and municipalities. It also indicates that it is in that direction that the reorganisation should go, with more responsibility for the municipalities. Overall, this debate is primarily a debate on growing-up conditions and how we build safe, warm societies to grow up in, preventing care failure, and preventing children from suffering from childhood. We have had several interesting debates today on social capital, on volunteering and community, and that debate must go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2490	I would like to thank you for the debate, and end with regard to what the representative Håbrek was about, and as Olemic Thommess said, that I had focused on the issue of child protection. It is equally important to focus on children’s growing-up conditions, on child poverty and on providing children with safe, good growing-up conditions. Not least in my time in the Justice Committee, I saw how important it was that there was a focus on prevention and good growth conditions to perhaps avoid these children getting into crime. Nevertheless, we see that there is a large increase in the need for child protection, and we also see a large increase in the need for child psychiatry. That's kind of the question that we're all asking ourselves: what's going on? And what can we do to change this? That's something that all the parties have to take over, and see if we can manage to find a solution to the challenge that we have there. The Progress Party has had the family as one of its core policy issues, but also the focus on child welfare, cash support and strengthening of health centres and school health services, which are important contributions for families. The council said there's going to be a proposition. It comes before this accumulation period is over. There is a long time left, and unfortunately I cannot promise the Council of State that this debate on child protection will not come up again in this Chamber. As long as the opposition can't stay, because we see challenges. I believe that it must be possible to give some signals while waiting for the proposal and the proposals – such as for example. the proposal made by the Council of State a few days ago that child protection should be given a little more power and could have more control over children, or that child protection institutions could have more use of power. These are signals, and signs of connection with relatives and close family are also signals that must be given while we wait for a proposition. Then the biological principle is important for the Progress Party. It's always been, and it's going to be. Nevertheless, the biological principle is more than the adoption and appeal of parents. Because the biological principle is that you use grandparents, aunts and uncles, who are well-functioning and have children from before, and manage to take care of a new child, so that the child can be allowed to be in the community and be with his or her own family. There are important signals that I believe this room must be able to give to the child protection out there. But I will again be allowed to thank you for the debate and look forward to further debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2507	I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the other participants for a good debate. I don't think there's any kind of chance that the debate on child protection is going to stop waiting for the proposition, and that's going to be a great deal of a contribution from the government. There are now changes in child protection all the time. This week we have presented changes to the rating code. The second issue, the representative Horne was now involved, is related to relatives and close family. I grabbed hold of it earlier this year through a circular related to clarifying that child protection should always look at the possibility of placement in the child's close network. It is true, as the representative Thommess pointed out, that the major issues of child protection have been a repetition since 2005, a repetition of all the years that have passed, not only since the red-green government took over, but above all since the reform adopted at the end of the bourgeois government came into force. It was promoted by a bourgeois government, unanimously adopted in Stortinget, with a red-green opposition. I hope that the next big grips to be taken on the structural side can bring together the widest possible support in Stortinget. I think it's possible to find good solutions that many parties will agree to. But it is clear that it would be irresponsible to propose new, major changes in child protection without a good evaluation of the changes we made last time. There has been some hustle and bustle in the Storting over the many evaluation and investigation processes that I have started in my time as Minister for Children, but I think the Stortinge will agree with me that it was reasonable, the day we are going to adopt these major changes, that we have a good knowledge base to do so. With regard to the timetable, I would just like to stress that when I say that the proposition will come about. One year, that means that we are going to present the proposals for change much earlier. But now, once again, the legislation is so that I cannot go right to the Stortinget with legislative proposals, they must be consulted first. But of course it also opens up wide political debate about those proposals when they are sent to the hearing. It'll happen a lot before. The schedule that I am currently sketching is a more ambitious timetable than the one that was originally outlined when we discussed just a message about child protection. Now my clear ambition is to promote a proposition. This means that the Storting should not only discuss the structure of the future but adopt the structure of the future during this period. There are many other things we could have discussed. The proposition will not just be a structural proposition. It will also be a proposition on the content of child protection. We should have had a debate on child poverty. It is both a question of family transfers and of prevention measures aimed at work and education. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2524	The debate on substance is closed. So 13 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2538	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2554	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2570	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2586	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2602	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2618	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2634	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2650	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2667	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2683	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2699	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2715	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e2723	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e3198	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e3256	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e3266	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4077	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4087	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4111	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act of 4 April 1995 No 15 on the Courts of Justice [[Court of Justice]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4157	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4 and 5, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right have been converted into proposals for transmission and will be amended accordingly. Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government promote the issue of the Storting with proposals for more stringent regulation of imports and transfers of placarded weapons. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for the joint registration of all firearms imported into Norway, including explosives.’; The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit full members of 1 % clubs from holding arms cards.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to submit, before the submission of the revised national budget for 2012, proposals for amendment of the Arms Act, where appropriate the Arms Regulation, which would result in full membership of a 1 % MC club being valid grounds for refusal of the Arms License.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4203	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider strengthening the operational capacity of Kripos, for example by providing it with its own testing department.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4244	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the issue of cross-territorial clearance of copyright with a view to a common Nordic solution, possibly a solution based on cooperation with Sweden, and/or Denmark.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4273	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for the digital dissemination of performing art based on the permanent institutions in the fields of music, opera and theatre.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4302	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6–17, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have been converted into a transmission proposal during the debate and will be changed in line with it. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised to ensure that the Youth Entrepreneurship Programme is strengthened and to contribute to its extension to social entrepreneurship aimed at addressing social societal challenges.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: «It is recommended that the government submit proposals for a simplification and red tape programme for the voluntary and non-profit sector.» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will be a vote on the proposals No. 6–17, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the establishment of a voluntary community service for 16-year-olds. Social services are served during school summer holidays in non-governmental organisations and should qualify for study credits for admission to higher education.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that education on how individuals can engage in volunteering and civil society is given greater emphasis in the social field.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that a day of volunteering is introduced at secondary and secondary schools, respectively, where students will decide on a project where they will do something for others.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to contribute to the establishment of the planned Kristiansand Folkhøgskole.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a growth fund for social innovation, which will provide an opportunity for growth for non-profit projects that have proven to solve major social challenges.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a start-up social innovation fund to support the start-up of new non-profit projects aimed at addressing social challenges’. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a system of best-in-reserve parents, enabling seniors on a voluntary basis to be foster-best-parents for vulnerable children.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a system of senior friends to enable seniors to provide additional assistance on a voluntary basis to adults with need for assistance, whether they are disabled, persons with severe disabilities or others.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a voluntary agreement to allow voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households to seek the assistance of employees of public and private enterprises that have concluded such an agreement.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that a school/home coordinator is established in each municipality, in order to strengthen parental involvement in their children’s schooling.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a pilot project with a school/home coordinator in some schools. The experiment should focus in particular on schools with many minority students.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that schools facilitate the establishment of groups of friends, where parents can meet with their children in various informal activities and meetings to create contact, understanding and trust between parents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4406	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that social capital and voluntary considerations become social policy objectives in line with value creation and sustainability’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a contribution from the government to the creation of several volunteer centres and the stepping up of the state subsidy to the centres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4428	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose that the deduction limit for gifts to non-governmental organisations be doubled to NOK 25 000.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4464	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to bring down the councils for child protection and social affairs and to transfer the tasks of these subjects to the ordinary courts.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to transfer funds from the State budget for 2013 to transfer tasks from the county council to the courts.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4498	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to reserve the right to cash support for Norwegian citizens and citizens from European Economic Area countries.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4521	In Case No. No voting theme is available. In the case of cases No. 14–25, this is the second time that legal decisions have been taken. Since there are no comments on any of the legislative acts, the President suggests that we treat them together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Voting in Case No 14–25
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4531	As I said, there are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-01.ana.ud108e4589	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
