ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e47	The representatives of Thor Lillehovde and Rigmor Andersen Eide, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e65	The conversion of hospitals in the Oslo area is absolutely necessary to provide a better offer to patients. The conversion is demanding, and I am therefore happy to give an explanation for the Storting on this matter. For many years hospitals in Oslo were located in two different health regions, and parallel trade unions were located in several places. There was thus clear scope for improvement by coordinating the professional and research environments. In this way, skills can be strengthened and better use of health professionals, hospital areas, medical devices and support functions can be ensured. The merger of Health South and Health East took place in 2007. The new region was given a clear mandate to improve coordination and resource use — in the capital area in particular. This history is an important backbone of the changes that are taking place and the debate that is now taking place on this process. The majority of the Committee, which, in addition to the Government Parties, includes the Right Party and the Advance Party, agreed to the merger. They also backed the assumption that the benefits would benefit patients throughout the new region. From 1 January 2009, the three former health companies Aker, Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet, which also include the Radium Hospital, were merged into Oslo University Hospital. In 2009, the company was run as three separate holdings, but from 2010 Oslo University Hospital was organized across the three hospitals. They have joint management, common administrative functions and continuous clinics. This means, for example: that all cancer treatments are grouped together under joint management in one clinic. Similarly, for example: also in the field of mental health protection and addiction treatment. The new organisation shall provide the basis for strengthening patient provision and the long-term development of the healthcare business. Oslo University Hospital currently has 17 000 annual works and a budget of about 17 billion. kr. Oslo University Hospital carries out over a million patient treatments per year and provides 80 pst. of the research in Health South-East. There is about half of all medical research in Norway. Oslo University Hospital is responsible for local hospital services for approx. 250,000 of Oslo’s 600,000 inhabitants and also have some functions for patients belonging to other hospitals in Oslo. In addition, Oslo offers specialised services to the rest of the region and the country. Oslo University Hospital is now working on changing the division of tasks between the three hospitals – Ullevål, Rikshospitalet and Aker – to provide better and more effective patient treatment. The local hospital functions that have been at the Rikshospitalet, Aker and Ullevål shall be collected in Ullevål Hospital. This is an action to strengthen local hospital provision in the capital. Similarly, the specialised functions shall be collected in the Rikshospitalet. Parts of Aker Hospital will be developed into an interaction arena between the hospitals in the metropolitan area and the municipality of Oslo, and there will still be specialist health services at Aker. The interaction arena at Aker will be an important contribution to providing older people and chroniclers with better health services and equalising social health differences. The collection of functions will enhance professional competence and improve resource use. This will also make services more transparent for the population and facilitate interaction between hospitals and the municipality. The collection of functions on Ullevål and the Rikshospitale, respectively, shall take place in several stages and shall be carried out over several years. A direct consequence of aggregation is an increase in treatment capacity in several areas. For example, one clinic performs prostate cancer operations. In the past, this was done at four clinics. This has significantly increased capacity from 2009 to 2010 and the waiting time has been significantly reduced. Radiation treatment capacity has also been increased. The collection of new atrial fibrillation treatment will also lead to significant increases in capacity in this area. These are good examples showing that the pooling provides opportunities to make better use of capacity, for the benefit of patients. In these days, there is a co-location of the plastic surgery and the equivalent for the jaw surgery. Several ICT projects have been launched in connection with the merger of hospitals in Oslo University Hospitals. In 2009, a tendering procedure was launched to develop a technical solution to ensure that healthcare professionals have access to the necessary information on patients across clinics and departments in Oslo University Hospital. The board decided to stop the project in April this year and the outstanding deliveries from the supplier were cancelled. The project was significantly delayed for several reasons and was expected to be far more expensive than expected at the time of the agreement. The management at Oslo University Hospital therefore considered that it was no longer possible to obtain the benefits on which the agreement was based. Temporary solutions are now in place to address the need for cross-disciplinary patient information. It is important to distinguish between the necessary investment measures resulting from the reorganisation process and the hospital’s long-term investment plans and to wish for further operations. In the long-term plans for Oslo University Hospital, there are outlined needs and wishes for larger new buildings at the large town hospital on Ullevål and at the Rikshospitalet. It is important that the long-term plans do not block the necessary investments that need to be made now to ensure the coordination of functions and tasks, so that operations can also be adapted here to the framework conditions of the size. Health South-East has stated that until 2015, the needs of Oslo University Hospital for special means of conversion will primarily be linked to the investment needed to move functions from Aker and to co-locate country and region functions. Health South-East is in dialogue with Oslo University Hospital to clarify the investment needs. After 2015 and up to 2026, Oslo University Hospital, as for the other health establishments in Health South-East, will need to renew the building mass. The plans, as they exist, are to be seen as sketches of investment plans. These plans must be treated in the same way as other projects in other parts of the country. There will be a lot of investment in Oslo University Hospital in the years to come. Additional investment funds have already been made available from Health South-East in 2010 and 2011, and funds will be made available in the years to come. In addition, it's at the base of 1 billion. SEK for investments in the annual transfers to Oslo University Hospital. However, the use of these funds for investment requires the operation of Oslo University Hospitals to be economically balanced. Health South-East has given a clear signal to Oslo University Hospital to launch an idea phase linked to new construction in the Rikshospitale. The government will propose to the Stortinget to grant loans when Oslo University Hospitals have concrete and economically sustainable projects to refer to. The patient base of Oslo University Hospital has been reduced by about 160,000 people by transferring the population of Alna City in Oslo and the municipalities of Follo from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus. Ahus has received a corresponding increase in his patient base. When Stortinget gave a clear signal for the construction of Aarhus in the 2004 state budget, one of the prerequisites was that the population of the three northernmost districts of Oslo – Stovner, Grorud and Alna – should have Aarhus as its future local hospital. The population of Grorud and Stovner were transferred to Aarhus as early as 2004. The population of the city of Alna and the municipalities of Follo were transferred from the turn of the year 2010/2011. Thus, it is possible that the capacity of Aarhus can now be fully exploited. Good use of resources requires the operation, costs and staffing of the two health care establishments to be adapted to the changed patient base. As of 2011, Aarhus is responsible for local hospital functions for a population of 460,000, while Oslo University Hospital has local hospital functions for about 250,000. As a result, Ahus has increased the budget and needs of several employees to deal with the increased patient base. Similarly, the budget framework for Oslo University Hospitals has been reduced and personnel needs somewhat lower as a result. One important reason why Oslo University Hospital has major challenges in adapting operations and costs to the 2011 budget framework is that they have failed to reduce staffing in accordance with the reduced patient base. At the same time, Aarhus still lacks sufficient staff. It is imperative that resources be reallocated between hospitals in order to ensure equivalent services. In line with the convergence premise, to which the Stortinget has joined, it is also important that the total number of doctors and other health professionals does not increase in addition to the needs of the capital area as a result of the transitions in order to make it more difficult to recruit health professionals in other parts of the region and the country. The reduced patient base of Oslo University Hospital implies a reduced activity equivalent to 1.7 billion. kr. In negotiations on the 2011 budget, there was agreement between Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital that this was not possible overnight. Oslo University Hospital even estimated that they had to have 625 million. kr more than the decrease in activity that would be isolated. This was accepted by Health South-East by Oslo University Hospital, which received 225 million. kr in direct income subsidies and that Oslo University Hospital could report a deficit of 400 million. kr in 2011. The situation now is that Oslo University Hospital is set to go with an additional 500 million. kr in deficit in addition to the agreed. This is what is now the challenge and the consequence of Oslo University Hospital not having adapted the operation, costs and manning to a reduced patient base that has been known since 2008. The Oslo University Hospital budget is about 17 pst. of the total budget of health establishments for the whole country. Within such a large budget, I assume that Oslo University Hospitals must be able to adapt operations without harming patients. Health South-East has introduced joint follow-up meetings with Oslo University Hospital, Aarhus and West Viken. These follow-up meetings, which take place every 14 days, place great emphasis on finding measures across health businesses. Of course, an important theme is to transfer personnel from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus. Aarhus has increased its activity, but the challenge is that they have to rely to a large extent on hiring staff and overtime because they have not succeeded in recruiting permanent staff. Health South-East met with Oslo University Hospital on 30 May this year, clarifying the performance requirement for 2011 and requiring Oslo University Hospital to find measures to reduce over-consumption. A new business meeting has been announced in September to follow up on progress in the right direction. In order to meet the challenges at Oslo University Hospital in 2010 and 2011, Health South-East has contributed to Oslo University Hospital 1.2 billion. kr in conversion funds, on the one hand, as loans, on the other hand as direct grants and, on the other hand, as an authorisation to carry a deficit. It is important to be aware that these are means that Health South-East must pick up partly from other priority areas and partly from the fact that the other hospitals in Health South-East must contribute through surpluses that they will not be able to dispose of themselves. Furthermore, I am informed that the Board of Health South-East will have the first reading of the 2012 budget and the long-term economic plan for the whole region in mid-June. This will include, inter alia: it is proposed that Oslo University Hospital in 2012 will have the opportunity to report a deficit of 400 million. kr, an additional premium of 160 million is to be granted. kr for the balancing of the income model and that it is set at 300 million. kr for loan grants that can be used for specific projects when these have been identified by Oslo University Hospital. Many resources, both money and labour, are being deployed to ensure the success of the coordination process at Oslo University Hospital. I see that this is necessary. But the challenges of Oslo University Hospital are not only solved with more money, but by taking into account the transformation processes needed to adapt operations to the given framework conditions. This is a management responsibility that the board and the management of Oslo University Hospital now have to deal with in cooperation and in good dialogue with the employees. I believe that the coordination of hospitals and professional environments in Oslo is absolutely necessary. I understand that there is no disagreement about the objectives of merging the hospitals in Oslo University Hospital. However, in large shifts over a long period of time, there will often be disagreement about the pace of implementation and further choices. I have a great deal of understanding that many employees experience the situation as demanding. There is reason to commend each one of them for making a solid effort. We want – together with the employees – to develop Oslo University Hospital into a leading and modern hospital in the Nordic region in terms of patient treatment, quality, education and research. Oslo University Hospital is and will be an exciting job for skilled and dedicated employees. It is also important for the other hospitals in Norway that Oslo University Hospitals succeed. In a conversion process, there is often counter-baking. In order to succeed in the transition, it is important that both the owner and the management, and the employees, are familiar with, and agree on, objectives and framework conditions, and that we stick to this even if we encounter obstacles along the way. The managing director left this week because there was disagreement between her and the board. The Deputy Managing Director is constituted as head of Oslo University Hospital, and the Board is working on recruiting a new Executive Director. It is important to ensure dialogue and build trust within the organisation. But this is not enough. We also need to build confidence in the environment, especially against the population. What is important to me is that patients are provided with high-quality and adequate services. Oslo University Hospital provides services of good quality, and they have also succeeded in improving the quality of several areas. The proportion of patients experiencing a treatment interruption from January to April this year is reduced from 20 pst. to 10 pst. In addition, waiting time has been reduced for several patient groups. I follow the situation at Oslo University Hospital carefully. My assessment is that Oslo University Hospital has worked purposefully and constructively to ensure a sound and good offer to patients, including in a demanding conversion process. I would like to point out here that Oslo University Hospital now has a common system of deviations for the entire hospital, which is probably the best we have in the country. This reporting system is based on a culture of transparency and depends on a good working environment among employees, which is central to ensuring patient safety in a good way. Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends most of its resources on health. In our government period, we have further strengthened the hospitals, and we are privileged in this country that has one of the world's best health services. In line with other countries, we face major challenges with new treatment methods, an increasing proportion of older people, chroniclers and people with complex disorders. Conversion is therefore necessary in all Norwegian hospitals. Within the framework of the health business model, I, as Minister of Health and Care, want to use all the tools available to me as the owner of regional health companies. Business meetings and mission documents have both general and special management requirements relevant to the conversion. The Ministry has monthly follow-up meetings with Health South-East, where the changes are monitored separately. I have a close and regular dialogue with Health South-East related to this matter. Changeovers are demanding and challenging. The starting point before we started the conversion work was that several hospitals in the same city had the same functions and the same professional environment that competed with each other instead of cooperating. It doesn't benefit patients. And patients are the starting point for the changes we are now making at Oslo University Hospital. We're going to use the resources better. We need to work together to improve quality, to reduce waiting times and to improve patient treatment. It is a picture that the challenges facing Oslo University Hospital are insurmountable. It's a wrong image. What really threatens a good health service is if I, as Minister of Health, do nothing, and avoid what is difficult – then I would fail my job, and the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e157	Under the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, final statements from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e162	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and good presentation. We need a strong public health service offering patients in Oslo and in the rest of the country the best possible treatment. We want to apply the latest and most up-to-date treatment. We want to implement new technologies that can provide better treatment, and that will allow you to go home faster. But it also requires us to spend the community's money and our health workers, not least, in an efficient and good way. When we see that we can better organize our businesses, we have to seize these opportunities. I believe that the collection of the Oslo hospitals is such an opportunity. And as the Minister of Health pointed out in his statement, we already see results. Waiting times go down, we're getting more patient treatment out of resources, and we're raising quality by bringing together environments of competence. It is well that the more important a social area is to us, the more uncertainty and more reactions we can expect when to make changes. There has been — and is happening — an enormous medical development, and the health sector must constantly adapt to this development. There has been broad support for the consolidation of former Health East and Health South and the reorganisation of the capital area, with a view to meeting both the needs for good hospital services at local, regional and national level, and not least to strengthening medical research in Norway. Both of these conditions are important for us to keep up with the development of medical technology in the decades to come. Conversion processes are demanding in all sectors. In the hospital sector, this is particularly well noted by staff, since the business can never stop. Management and staff must plan and reorganise, while providing patients with adequate treatment. Conversion processes can never be at the expense of patient safety. Success then depends a lot on good management, which means not least the involvement of employees and respect for agreed objectives, but also a wisdom that involves correction, when necessary. Sickness about Oslo University Hospital is in a difficult situation – as many, of course, feel is tough – there are also many who want and believe in the merger process, precisely from the point of view that they believe in what they are doing: giving patients the very best treatment. And this applies not only to patients in Oslo, as I said, but also to patients in the rest of the country who come here to receive specialist treatment – just as people in Oslo and elsewhere in the country are sent to Bergen for treatment of the country's foremost expertise in fire damage, when needed. This is a necessary division of labour and, at the same time, a recognition of different points of competence. A better division of labour is also the goal here in Oslo: the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital, with important specialist functions, as well as specialists at Ullevål Hospital, who also have regional hospital functions for the south and east of the country, and Aker Hospital, for which we have particular ambitions, linked to the Cooperation Reform. It is important that the country still manages the property stock at Aker Hospital and ensures good development in the area. The hospital will house a large and important interaction arena, as well as specialist functions in areas where Aker hospitals have a high level of competence and good treatment. It is important that there is tranquility around the offers there may be tranquility around the transition processes, which often contain enough of other challenges. An important prerequisite for the development of increasingly better health services is communication systems that can simplify and ensure quality of health and care services. It requires that one has a common ICT architecture within health enterprises and that one also has the opportunity to communicate across enterprises. In this context, provision is made for national ICT governance, with a view to achieving good coordination and communication across the sector. The specialist health service is one of the largest sectors of society and provides services that are important to all citizens at all stages of life. Our social model is based on solidarity, with Community solutions that ensure access to advanced medical treatment for all, regardless of the size of the wallet. We can only do this if we also have the ability to renew and improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e192	After signing – and then the parliamentary leaders – the Minister of Health sent letters and asked her to come to the Stortinget quickly to explain the situation at Oslo University Hospital, I would first like to thank her for coming to the Stortinget at such short notice and explaining the situation. However, I was not so impressed with the presentation. In my opinion, the situation at Oslo University Hospital and throughout the capital region is out of control. A visit to the corridors to either Aker Hospital, Aarhus, Ullevål Hospital or the Rikshospitale would show the same thing. In this way, the Secretary of Health's statement is very little reassuring. It should, even for a Health Minister from the Workers' Party, call some alarm clocks when a hospital director resigns on the following grounds: ‘I cannot provide any measures if there is a high risk of patient treatment. Reducing by 500 million now will have unacceptable consequences.’ The health minister's answer to this is that she has full confidence in the board of Health South-East, and when the said director has left this reason, her only answer is this one sentence: we are now working on hiring a new one. Today, the very evidence that the intentions of the hospital reform from 2001 have gone as far as the sun is concerned is evident. The whole intention, which was to have stronger political governance, and that responsibility should lie with the Minister of Health, is no longer very visible. Today, we see a health minister who neither has the ability nor wants to take the political responsibility she should have taken to ensure the citizens of Norway, in this case in the Oslo region, a sound and good health service. She can't say she didn't know either. I, the undersigned, other representatives, TV 2 and NRK – and VG, for that matter – have repeatedly tried to call out warnings. Through budgetary proceedings, written questions, drafts of representatives and in other contexts, we have made it clear that the situation appears to be out of control. And every time, including here today, the Health Minister says that she trusts Health South-East, that the responsibility is in fact there; she has as usual full confidence and must follow the situation closely. My advice to the Health Minister is that if she intends to follow this situation closely, she should follow it from a corridor in the hospital, and not from the government quarter. I don't think this will last. In large conversion processes, we are simply dependent on increasing resource availability and efforts more than what has been done here, in order to have the effects that both the Minister of Health and I agree on. That is why the Progress Party increased its budget by over 2 billion. kr, and we are now proposing a crisis package in relation to the revised budget, just to come to grips with this situation. In this process, the Minister of Health has closed her eyes, while she has pushed Bente Mikkelsen and Health South-East ahead. In an answer to one of my written questions, the health minister writes out correctly what she thinks makes sense in terms of resource use at Oslo University Hospital: ‘This requires increased budgetary frameworks and more staff of Aarhus, and corresponding reductions in the financial framework and staff of the OYS.’» This shows, in my opinion, that the Minister of Health and the Government do not understand that conversion is time-consuming and that it costs money. Now, unfortunately, it seems that the patients and the employees are affected and paying for this conversion, which is necessary, and which is good, but which actually costs money initially. It makes no sense in itself to deliberately go in to reduce the supply of health – for that is what you do – when it says about 270,000 people in health queues in Norway. The progress party has long announced that the conversion process in the metropolitan region is out of control and must be stopped temporarily, so that we can regain control. Today's statement from the Minister of Health shows, in my opinion, that she has no ground contact, and she refuses to receive the signals coming from the opposition, patients, media and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e222	There is reason to recall why the Minister of Health is here today and to explain this situation. It is precisely with the background that a well-appointed hospital director, Siri Hatlen, went off on the basis of a strong concern for a transition process that is very demanding, but where the health minister refused to comment on the situation and only referred to Health South-East. This is the second time the Minister of Health has explained to the Storting about this process. The first time was in connection with the signing of an interpellation on 12 October last year on the challenge of quality assurance of this conversion process. The reason for the interpellation was that the then director of Oslo University Hospital was out just one year ago warning against the developments that one had seen. The Health Minister's answer to that at the time was that she had full confidence in Health South-East, and that she was absolutely convinced that this conversion process would be possible as planned, without going beyond the patients. There is reason to ask the Minister of Health now if she still believes that this is a process with which there is reason to be satisfied. There may not be any reason to ask that question, because once you have heard the Minister of Health's statement, it seems that the Minister of Health is satisfied with the state of things. This is not about the objective of this merger process, but about the path and process towards the goal. This is the largest migration in the Norwegian healthcare system ever implemented, directly affecting employees and patients. In the 2011 government budget, as presented by the government, this process of conversion is almost not mentioned at all. It has almost been impossible to know what the government is doing to ensure such a demanding process of conversion. The only thing one gets to answer is that the government has full confidence in Health South-East. The same thing happened now, when the director chose to leave. Nor could the Minister of Health then comment on the situation, but it was perhaps because the Minister of Health at that time was so busy discussing anaesthetic status at Nordfjord Hospital together with the Minister of Municipal Affairs. This shows a wrong priority in relation to the main challenges of our healthcare system. The situation description provided by the Minister of Health must be quite difficult for the employees of Oslo University Hospital to take over, because it is very little consistent with how they experience the situation. It must also be difficult in relation to what is actually in the governing bodies of Oslo University Hospital, which was the background for the director choosing to resign. I'll quote: ‘There is an increased number of deviations recorded in the 1st tertial where the workload, personnel shortages, time shortages, delays and lack of training in systems are contributing causes. The workload over time is too high for many groups of employees. Therefore, the working environment and migration continue to be considered as a high-risk area.» The likelihood of this process leading to increased waiting times is set as high in the risk analysis and the consequences for patients are set as serious. It does not seem that the Minister of Health has taken this on board, but suggests that the waiting time has decreased, because the waiting time has decreased slightly — by two days — from January to March, while the waiting time has actually increased from 67 days on average in 2007 to 74 days now, in 2011. This situation requires the Minister of Health to involve himself in ensuring that the process is carried out in such a way that patients and employees are not affected. Nor is it the case that the Minister of Health can refer to the framework conditions of the Storting. If the Minister of Health believes this process is not feasible within the budgetary framework of the Minister of Health, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Health to come to the Stortinget, not the responsibility of the Stortinge to come to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e246	There is a demanding conversion process facing Oslo University Hospital, and it is clear from the media that some people are asking questions about whether it can be implemented — whether the assumptions are present. Then there might be reason to remind you of the history. Health South and Health East merged in 2007. The main reason was to coordinate the functions between hospitals in Oslo. This was the cross-political agreement in Stortinget. To achieve this in the best possible way, Oslo Sickness Area was established as its own Sickness Area and Enterprises in 2009. The local hospital area to 160,000 inhabitants has moved from Oslo to Aarhus. Clearly, the transfer of several thousand employees from Oslo to Aarhus is demanding for a very large number of employees and demanding for those in charge of the process. A key prerequisite for implementation is that employees are properly cared for. Conversion and relocation of work places must be carried out under the terms of the contract and in cooperation with the employees’ organisations. Therefore, additional resources are also needed during the conversion period. I have also been informed that the Oslo hospital area has over 70 small and large addresses. Another important premise is that a power to assemble the hospital functions on fewer units. It will require investment in new buildings, in conversion, modernisation and ICT, not least. The Oslo Hospitals have a budget of 17 billion. kr and an investment capacity of 1 billion. kr in the year, if I have read the documents correctly. It is clear that the possibilities for implementing the necessary investment programme are becoming very important in order to achieve this. It needs to be resolved, and it needs to be resolved without compromising the progress of the other planned major investments in Health South-East and in the rest of the country. That will be the main challenge in the coming years. The representative, Tore Hagebakken, said in his speech that he was critical of the plans to sell Aker Hospital. At this point, I fully agree. The country acquired these properties in connection with the acquisition of hospitals 10 years ago. In the future, with the population growth in the Oslo region, there will be a major need for emergency, drug, psychiatry, rehabilitation and continued specialist health services. These properties must then also be used in the future for health and other necessary social purposes in Oslo. The Minister for Health said in his speech that she was very concerned about ensuring patients a proper service, with high quality and sufficient capacity. It's the most important thing. The progress and implementation of the migration must be at a level that does not compromise the quality and safety of patients. I perceive that the Minister of Health is continually following up, and it is also very important that the Health Inspectorate follow this process closely. Finally, the conversion process in Oslo is very important for the population of Oslo, and it is also a very important national health policy issue. Therefore, all resources must be deployed to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e265	I will first be allowed to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation. The situation at Oslo University Hospital has received a wide media review in recent times. Many people are disturbed in Oslo, and I think it also disturbs many throughout the country. This applies to both healthy and sick workers and managers. Governments deserve praise for coming to the Storting so quickly to give their orientation. I would like to stress that hospitals represent a very important security element in people's lives. There should be no doubt that the Storting will do everything necessary to ensure hospitals the resources and an organisation that will allow them to concentrate on patients. I believe that the presentation by the Council of State will help to allay the unrest that has occurred. There is, as far as I can see, nothing to suggest that patients, their woes and wells, are being harmed by the disagreement between the board and management of Oslo University Hospital. I agree with the Council of State that it is the regional health company Health South-East that must take responsibility for the problems that have arisen at Oslo University Hospital. However, the central party expects the Council of State to follow closely the situation. This is about the largest and most important hospital in the country. It is important that any further unrest surrounding Oslo University Hospital does not affect patients there or spread to other hospitals. The Central Party Health Commissioner, Kjersti Toppe, has pointed out that in the longer term, the Stortinget must be invited to discuss the health business model. I wholeheartedly support that. There is a need for a lot of reasons. She has also called for a specific look at the situation in Health South-East and for an assessment of the appropriateness of the breakdown to several regional health establishments. She has also stressed that all health businesses throughout the country must be treated equally. It's an approach that I fully support. It is an important element to take into account in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e276	I would like to thank the Council of State for so quickly accepting to come and make this presentation here today. As early as March 2010, the district board of Oslo and Akershus pointed out that the costs of conversions at Oslo University Hospital were seriously underestimated. He feared that this would affect large patient groups. On questions from Knut Arild Hareide, the Council of State replied that all patient groups, both in and after the conversion, should be guaranteed good and sound specialist health services. After this, the Minister of Health has received a number of questions about this process. The questions have all been answered with assurances that the patient offer should not be adversely affected either by the conversions as a result of the capital process or by the Cooperation Reform. In December 2010, I learned that there were major problems related to the new ICT system for clinical work. It should be in operation from June 2010 but was delayed. The history of this system is almost secret. On questions from me, the Minister of Health replied that the delivery date was set at 15 January 2011, but that it could be further delayed. She pointed out the importance of the system in terms of patient safety, and had full confidence that this process would go well. The surprise was therefore great when the government of Oslo University Hospital stopped the entire project in April, which was also the subject of the Council of State. What happens now? Do you have to start over? Can any of the things you have paid for be used? Now everything has to be reviewed. What does that mean? Are there additional costs? Is the temporary solution robust enough? And how long does it take? On a new question from me about the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital in May, the Council of State again replied that Health South-East has assured her that the patient offer should not be adversely affected, but that short-term changes in waiting times may occur. I assumed that the alarm bells began to ring. Director Siri Hatlen said a few weeks before she decided to withdraw from the position, that the savings of Oslo University Hospital were imposed would compromise patient safety. When she left, she said that it was not safe to submit a long-term savings plan as Health South-East wanted. Siri Hatlen's departure is a warning that we should all listen to. Who really owns reality here? Is that the county game? Is it Health South-East to which the Council of State refers? Are these the trustees and employees? Is that the retired director? Yesterday, one of the trusted doctors at the Oslo University Hospital wrote that the reality description of Health South-East is so poor that trust is ‘extremely weakened’. After what I understand today, it is not a matter of stopping or listening to anyone other than Health South-East. Governments even say that there was a 'bad image' created here. Having said that, I don't think we're good enough in the state to make big changes. We cannot take into account that large conversions require considerable extra funds in the conversion phases. Instead, we repeatedly see that conversion processes deal with economics and savings requirements from the first day. Often, there is also a lack of impact assessments and planned milestones. I have a great understanding that there is a very demanding process that is now being carried out. It's not just Oslo University Hospital that's being hit. Other hospitals in the Health South-East area are also struggling. The smaller hospitals — I can take South Africa as an example — have long been concerned about the consequences they may have of the financial problems associated with the conversion in the Oslo area. The Council of State itself was aware that it also affected the other hospitals in Health South-East. So the question is whether it is possible to make such a large conversion with such a large simultaneous savings requirement, without affecting patients and employees, or, for that matter, the rest of Health South-East. Governments are responding today: everything is under control. It's actually created a 'wrong image'. I'm not calmed down. I just have to say that I hope the Council of State is right, but I'm not sure at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e299	Today it is a day when we will be especially pleased with the match Johan Sverdrup fought in this hall, namely our right to demand that state councils come and respond. I'm glad the Council of State is coming. I'm glad that Sverdrup fought the fight, but it's sad in the public debate that a government council must be pushed to the Parliament's pulpit before she will comment on something that hundreds of thousands of people are concerned about. In its statement ‘better’ healthcare, the Council of State said quite many times. We're all concerned about that in this room. But the reason why the Council of State is here is that one of our most experienced health managers has left his or her position, precisely with the statement that what is now happening is about to go beyond people's health services. However, the Council of State responds with ‘better’ healthcare. The Left also supports the reorganisation, supports the desire to improve services, also supports the principle of professionalism. But we're concerned when a director and the employees have a completely different story than the minister presents. It also seems through the statement that the Council of State does not believe that management has taken the transition seriously. The Council of State believes that this is based not only on economics but also on will. It's actually our impression that there's been a lot of will to get it done, and it's at least new if the Council of State now believes that it's not taken enough control. Then the state council must intervene stronger than she has done, in our opinion. Governments are very concerned about financial management in the presentation. We in the Left believe that this is about a hospital that has so many national functions and so many special tasks, that there might be reason to ask if the basic funding is good enough, when the Council spends all time comparing with the other hospitals that have other functions. The left has also been skeptical about the closure of Aker, but really with a different angle of incidence than the concern of the house, sail if we also think that it is a subtle grip if you now take something from a municipality, and then demand that the municipality buy it back again. But what's worried us is especially features that are important to a capital, and that are special challenges for a capital, such as rushes and psychiatry, which I didn't hear that the Council of State mentioned in one word. There are two disciplines that have given us great concern in the conversion of Aker. We are building hospitals today that are fine surgical machines, but some of the health services set different requirements for organisation and treatment requirements than being clean machines that have to cut people's bodies to get them fresh again. Health services are based on trust. Then it doesn't just have to say that someone has a wrong perception of reality. Then the Council of State must have a plan for how to build that trust up again. A good way to build trust with their people is actually to participate in debates, it's actually to argue for their view and actually explain their reality. Having absence in debates is scary because of the trust in such an important part of what we do with Community services, namely hospitals. Governments should have a plan for how to build trust in employees and management as well as with people most. Being a Minister of Health is not like running a property company, it's not like being a general meeting of any government, it's actually about being a Minister of Health, building trust in our health services and creating a sense of reality based on it and participating in political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e316	I've listened with great interest to the posts here. There are some claims that have come up, and I'm going to try to answer some of them. It is not such that it is the Storting that has at all times announced the progress of the process. I actually have that myself from my own chair and post office ready to keep myself informed about and follow along. But it's not like you're telling the Storting about everything you do as the responsible state council, even if you take responsibility day after day. I understand that someone wants it to be held responsible by the Council of State. I will reject that. I can't go into the operational everyday life, but that doesn't mean that, as a government council, you shift responsibility away, because that's what you're responsible for, and I take that. Therefore, it is also important to follow in the migration processes that are involved. The migration processes are time-consuming, and there have been questions, if I understood it, whether there is enough time, and whether it affects these patients. It was Per Arne Olsen who was into it. I believe that the time aspect of a process of conversion can often be the Achilles. Maybe it sometimes goes too long and you don't manage the operational day-to-day conversion that is necessary, it not only helps to merge functions on paper, you also have to work on dimensionalizing. I would also like to remind you that it has always been a prerequisite that there should be a allocation of resources in connection with that capital process. But it's clear that it's when you get to that point, that the conversion processes are really going to be difficult. To Bent Höie, I would like to say that I am convinced that this conversion is still feasible. The fact that one director goes is not a reason why it can't be implemented. I have a great deal of understanding that employees experience it very demanding when it's all media postings, there's a lot of people discussing it, there's opinions, and it's trust elected. Of course, this gives an absolute picture of the uncertainty and concern that is definitely there. Just in this picture, it is impressive that Oslo University Hospital is able to reduce waiting times and reduce deadlines even if the transition is ongoing. Then I would like to remind the representative Bent Höie that Health South-East has reduced the waiting time from 75 to 69 days in the first three to four months of the year. Patient safety and quality are very much of the indicators that I can measure by, in relation to health businesses, in relation to hospitals. It is quite impressive that Oslo University Hospital has such good systems for this, and is actually far ahead, perhaps the furthest forward in the country in this area. It might not be so strange that they are, because they are so far ahead in very many other areas. But it is also important to be able to refrain from entering into the direct daily operation, the direct daily conversion, which you have to work with if you're going to succeed. I fully agree with Laila Bavøy regarding the ICT systems, and that it is important to make them work. What I understand now is that you have a temporary solution. You can always ask the question: was this system and development stopped earlier? Of course, this is something we have to follow up on, because it is important that there is cross-border access to these ICT systems. When I said that it was created a wrong picture, I thought it was created a picture that the challenges facing Oslo University Hospital are insurmountable. It's a wrong image. I think that's a wrong picture. I also think it's very important to say that, because you can't change if you don't believe that this goes, if you don't believe that's the right goal you're looking for, and you have faith that it goes. So it's like Trine Skei Grande can't have seen a single medium this week, if she hasn't seen that I've both been in debates and expressed myself on this matter. But there are questions about who should speak up at all times, and there I have also tried to be neat in relation to the board of Oslo University Hospital and Health-South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e336	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health and Health on the situation at Oslo University Hospital HF be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e354	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Knut Arild Hareide, who is the rapporteur on the matter. The next speaker is the representative of Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e365	This is an aggregate proposition, and it therefore contains some matters for aviation purposes, road purposes, specific transport measures and rail purposes. Avinor has for several years no emission permits, and it has been a violation of given permissions. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has previously pointed this out. There is a joint committee which takes note of the comment that this should now be cleaned up and that all Avinor Airports should now have valid emission permits. There are a number of things going on under the Road applications category. I will not mention each project here, but the committee joins the government's proposal, with some comments on some issues, including: it applies to fv. 714, new bridge over the Dolmsundet in Hitra municipality in South Trondelag, where a couple of hubs have led to a cost increase. There is a joint committee which is behind it. This will provide a better way, but we also look forward to the decision of the Council of State in this matter. The new agreement between the State and Hurtigruten ASA will be dealt with in the case of specific transport measures. The purpose of the government purchase has been to ensure a day-to-day, year-round sailing pattern on the route between Bergen and Kirkenes. There is a joint committee which is satisfied that the new agreement still provides for day-to-day, year-round sailing on this route. The agreement between the State and the Hurtigruten is very important, and it is good that both freight and passenger transport are now being carried forward on what I think is the right level. There is cross-political agreement that the rapid route concept has a major impact on local communities along the coast. And the committee points out that sailing is one of Norway's most famous travel products internationally. In the setting, the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that there was only one offer in the bidding process, and that it was from the operator who has it today, the Hurtigruten ASA. In order to ensure a good dynamic in future processes, it may be reasonable for the government to assess whether there are ways to get more actors into the process, so that we get a real competition. The proposition also makes good sense for some cases in the railway area. I'm assuming that the respective parts will work out for their comments here. Let me say that the Christian People's Party supports the measures proposed in the proposition, but the Christian People's Party is also concerned that the phase-in of the basic route model in the Austland has been postponed indefinitely. There's a multiple in the committee that now thinks it's urgent to set up a new base path model. We need a better rail supply for the travellers. This requires increased effort on the part of the government. Infrastructure needs to be improved, but also NSB services need to be strengthened. So it's surprising that the government should take out 93.5 million. kr in dividends from the NSB, as presented by the revised national budget. But this is a matter that we will come back to Friday in a week. This case, the collective proposition, has a lot of connection, except what I pointed out for railway purposes, where I expect the batches to do their best for their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e382	Then the next speaker is advertised as Torstein Rudihagen, but since the representative Rudihagen is physically absent, we move on to the next speaker, who is the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e385	He's physically present. This is a case that deals with a number of matters within the Department of Transport. I refer to our comments, but have some comments on behalf of the Progress Party, first on rail purposes. For two projects, a derogation has been granted on requirements for detailed plans prior to the implementation of external quality assurance. That's good. There is a great need to reduce the planning time for large-scale transport projects. I would like to remind you that in April this year Prime Minister Stoltenberg stated to the evening post: ‘Nine years for the planning of new road or rail; there is far too much time’. To the evening post here a few days ago in June, the directorate of the road, Lars Aksnes, said: ‘The level and the building law in force offer little opportunity to carry out the process.’ That is why, on behalf of the Progress Party, I once again call on the Government to take action to shorten the planning time for large-scale transport projects. From the transport committee’s many country trips in Norway, this is a very clear requirement from municipalities and from county politicians; planning time must be reduced. Then it is sad to remember that last Monday the government parties voted down proposals that could contribute to a reduction in planning time. They voted in favour of proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. So short of the new agreement for Hurtigruten, the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route: We are pleased to maintain daily, year-round sailing on the route. But the Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that there was only one offer. That is why we ask the government to assess ways of getting more actors on the road, or at sea, which, of course, has to be a more accurate expression here. We have noticed the answer from the Council of State regarding this: ‘However, the issue is highly relevant and should be given great attention in the design of a competitive basis for the purchase in question at the time.’ It'll come back, even if it's a few more years. So to the hub of Hitra, to fv. 714, new bridge over Dolmsundet in Hitra municipality in South Trondelag. A hedged chopper now moves the bridge. Hubroen moves the bridge back to what was planned for both road and bridge originally, but after the municipality's appeal to the Ministry of the Environment is moved up to the existing bridge. Now it's the same department, the Ministry of Environment, which, for the sake of the hub, moves the road and the bridge back to the original trasé, signed by the same department. The solution that is now coming is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a good solution, although financing with partial use of tolls is still a poor and unnecessary solution. After the Progress Party's vision, the whole process is simply hacking crazy or, more strikingly perhaps, hacking crazy. This is another example of how environmental considerations prolong the planning and construction process and change the content of important transport projects. The Progress Party believes that this policy line extends the planning time, increases costs and actually provides poorer solutions. And there are unfortunately other examples, such as pictures in Finnmark, island stickers along the E39 in Hordaland and soil protection in Hedmark, which provide narrow four-field road when built new rv. 2, and not wide four-field road which is dimensioned for growing transport needs. So in most cases, such considerations lead not to better results, as in this case, but to worse results. In this case, however, we should all send a thank you to the hub of Hitra.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e418	The next speaker is the representative of Lars Myraune. Then it turns out that the representative from the Workers' Party who should have been notified for 5 minutes was Gorm Kjernli, and not the representative mentioned earlier. So Gorm Kjernli gets the word after Myraune.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e423	I'd like to express my pleasure that we are now getting an overall proposition that mentions a lot of projects of great importance. Doing it this way, getting an overall proposition, making it happen a little bit faster, and it's nice for us in the committee to be able to look at it that way without going too deep in all the details of all the projects. But we could have thought that it had come a little bit earlier, and not nearly the last week of this session. I don't want to mention all the projects in this prop, but I want to take some of them for granted. The first one concerns a borrowing operation. That's okay. But I wish we could have allowed the county councils to make borrowings with the toll companies without having to do so in the national Parliament. But when it's like that, I would appreciate it at least not being a plug in the department that makes county councils wait for months, and maybe for years in some cases, to get a project going. With regard to the project E6 Øyer – Thirteen, it is very good that it is going on, and I have no comments on the increase that is there. But I just want to point out that the Right in connection with the Innst. S. No 270 for 2008-2009 asked for a better solution in view of the future. So this is E6, and we should have seen that there would have been more capacity on that distance. What I'm most happy about now is getting its solution, is fv. 714, new bridge over Dolmsundet in Hitra municipality. This route was adopted by the Stortinget in 1990, but it made little progress. The road is very important for the traffic of salmon produced on Hitra and Frøya. It's fluctuated, it's an accident, and waiting for more than ten years from decision in Stortinget to a solution is not acceptable. What happened was that the municipality of Hitra was in favour of a complaint that meant that the solution that is now being adopted would not be implemented. Then you would take a turn on the road and make a corner that was quite unnecessary in the eyes of many. But the happy thing was that there was a married couple. It's almost comical – we have to say – that when we build a road, we allow ourselves to demolish a house where people live, because they can probably find a new place to build a house, but we don't think that a couple of birds can find a new tree to build a nest in. And that really surprises me. I think the environmental side has gone very far in exercising power. It's almost comical. That being said, one has now found a good solution, and that's good. What was a little strange, a little special, with this case, was that in the meantime, the responsibility for that road was transferred to the county council, and there you didn't have the 100 million. kr that was going to build the new bridge. So I'm very happy that a solution has now been found, and there I have to praise the ministry for having shown flexibility. Despite the fact that it is now the responsibility of the county council, the department has taken the costs here, and that is very good. This case also shows that there is a need to make changes to the planning process. This isn't the only case, there's a lot of cases where someone has an objection, and then it gets stuck in a jam. I agree that all levels of local democracy should be allowed to say something, but not that they should stop major projects, and especially in terms of as important as this – not to talk about railway tracks and E6 tracks, as we also sometimes see. That is why I am very pleased that we have received statements from responsible representatives in the State Road Administration in the last time that express the same thing. And I hope that the Council of State takes it a notam and can find a new solution to that. Then there is one thing I want to mention, Program Category 21.50 Railway applications – not because I have something against the case, I agree with that. But I just want to mention that yesterday and yesterday I traveled by railway to Lillehammer and back again. The train went for 30 to 40 km/h long parts of the route. I hope that the Council of State can find the labour force and the solution to this and fix some of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e442	The representative Rudihagen is an all right man, but I think we both appreciate that we're ourselves and not each other. We are now dealing with several issues in aviation, road and rail, and it is a unanimous attitude that underlies this matter. I am not going to talk about all the issues, but here there is a mandate to borrow from the Haugalands package for two important projects on E134 and on fv. 47. There are also price changes for the mainland connection to Finn Island with 25 pst. That toll project is perhaps referred to as Norway’s most expensive toll project. Here you get a reduction from 200 kroner to 150 kroner, and you can still end the toll collection two to three years earlier than what was foreseen when you decided the case in its time. So the matter of a new bridge over Dolmsundet has received the most attention. The case has a long story, and it's good that it now gets its final solution. It's the hedged hubro that's created a lot of discussion. I understand that people can shake their heads a little bit, but we have to remember that we are obliged to take care of animals that are endangered by extinction. We have international commitments to it. Hubro is a red-listed species, and we have commitments, as we said, to other animals that have been in political focus this week. That's $40 million. kr in tolls here. The toll collection was completed in 2010, so the money is there. Now you come to clarify what is going to be the state contribution, and I am absolutely sure you will also get a clarification of what is going to be the local contribution here. It is also worth remembering that an agreement has been made with the shipyard that created a fight in a previous round. That agreement is in place. Now you go back to the original path, which really gives you the right path, and that's how everyone should really be satisfied – and then you don't have to focus more on what goes on on the hub there. We have seen a marked change of pace in railway development, renewal and maintenance since the red-green government took over in 2005. In the proposition we are now dealing with, there are several of the railway investment projects that have been notified in the past but are now being launched. These projects are essential for us to be able to accept the new train sets ordered by the NSB, and not least to set up a new base route model in the East. It's about track power supply and fuselages. I'm not going to go any further into the technicalities of it, but this is important things for us to get the new trains to roll on Norwegian rails at all. So it is very good to ensure that the planning work for Eidsvoll, Frogner and Lillestrøm stations can continue, with parking tracks on Eidsvoll and Lillestrøm, which are absolutely essential to get the new train sets in place, and with crossing tracks and conversion of Frogner station, which is crucial for getting a new base route model to go painless. It is important to work on these measures. Several have been critical that the new base route model has been exposed. These projects show that you have a direction and a desire to get things done. Then it didn't become Route Plan 2012, but a new timetable will be. Finally, the agreement concluded between the State and Hurtigruten is also mentioned. It ensures daily, full-year sailing between Bergen and Kirkenes. It makes sure that we have the opportunity to carry goods. It's a good deal, which has great significance for people along large parts of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e461	I am very pleased that the matter we have now been given takes on board a number of projects, small and large, in the field of transport in both aviation, road, coast and rail. There's things that mean a lot to a lot of people around the country. I am not going to comment on all the projects that are inside, but I am going to be inside some of them. The first thing that is very good to get in place is emissions permits at Avinor airports, where the Control and Constitutional Committee has previously pointed out that it has not been in place from 2003 to 2008. It is now ensured that valid permits are in place, which help to ensure that it is also in line with pollution objectives and in such a way that one also ensures the safety of airports. That's good. For road purposes there are a number of projects. Several representatives have previously mentioned a part of them, so I'm just going to enter some further. E6 Eyes–Thirteen I have been looking at myself, and I see how important it is that it comes into place. E6 is a transit vein. It's the main vein through the country that we're now rusting up from north to south, from south to north. It means a lot that it comes into place. Then we've found a solution for E18 South Harbour in Oslo. I'm very satisfied with that. We're getting racial protection in the Lofoten between Solbjørnneset and Hamnøy. It's one of the most raging areas of winter time, at least in my state, where we now get both the commercial traffic and the school kids so that in the future you don't have to be afraid of them when they're going out and going. And then you've found a solution for rv. 706 The escape in Trondheim, and one has found a solution for rv. 714 – new bridge over the Dolmsundet in Hitra municipality – where you take care of both the famous nesting hubs and the people and the commercial traffic to run. I'm very happy about that. Thus, within specific transport measures, we have established a fast-haul agreement. It will ensure day-to-day and full-year sailing in such a way that you are very satisfied with the coast around. It offers new opportunities for business and people, which I hope you will really take a good look around, and use that concept for everything it is worth, in relation to freight, passenger and travel products. On the rail side, there are a number of measures that provide both safer and better train provision, especially in the east. That's very important given that we're going to have a new base path model in place. We're going to build a railway that's more rusty for the future and that can transport more people to and from work in a good and safe way. There is no doubt that there is a strong commitment on the railway – there is a new time for the railway. There is a new demand for rail, from all over the country in fact, the focus is much more on rail traffic. It's exciting, it's interesting – and there hasn't been such a focus around in the past. That means that there can be a completely different future for line and also on the coast cold as well. We get good combinations, which I hope and believe, we've done a good job for the environment as well as for the road users, because we might get a little bit less goods on the roads. With that, on behalf of the government parties – and the Central Party – I will end up saying that I am very satisfied with what is in the conspiracy proposition. We can enjoy the solutions that are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e484	The government has had an active year. Now, when we get to 10 June, I can say that on the road we have followed up what we said. We have an offensive national transport plan, and we realize projects for projects. It has also known the transport committee on the body – the transport committee has played well on the layers and got through projects by project both on the road and on the other areas. So from 2010 to 2011, we increased the maintenance by 60 pst. When we add up to the railroad, we've increased the total number of runs to the railway station since we took over, by 70 pst. These two sums tell themselves about a gigantic renewal and upgrading of both road and track, to the joy of many who live around the country, because we bind the country better together. There will be cost savings, better environment, better accessibility, better accessibility, better road safety – there is a lot of work behind what has now been done, and there is a lot of good for the future here. At the same time, there's a lot of mess. There are too many bad roads in this country, and there is still a lot to be done on the road, if I should concentrate on the two. But then the aggregate proposition gives a little insight into a very local commitment on many fields, a very commitment also from the Storting, and in sum a lot of work both in government and in the Ministry of Transport. So now Avinor has all of his emission rights in place. It means a better environment at airports. Now they can enjoy themselves in the border country of North Rogaland/Hordaland because there has been a yes to borrowing and thus the realization of important projects there. Now Finnfast is getting a reduced toll rate. E10 Solbjørnneset – Hamnøy in Lofoten is now protected by race, which has been requested for a long time. Now we have an extension for both South Port in Oslo and for Sluppen-Stavne, a part of it, in the Trondheim area, which is part of a much larger local package. So -- at all: there's so much work, so much work, and so much joy. We must be allowed to underline that in a day like this. To Dolmsundet: The important thing there was actually to get through, as it is absolutely necessary, both for business and for construction, to put in a new and more traffic-proof road. We've solved that. So now there was a high bridge -- not the hubro option -- but there are more advantages. The helicopter is screened in relation to the laws of nature. The new route is about 6 km shorter, has better accessibility and provides a better environment. In relation to all the years that this new road is to be used, this has a huge socio-economic gain. There are some extra costs, but it is very good that we have now found a solution that everyone can live with. And so: Think of the fast route – it's a light one, yes, in government and big one – think of the joy among the peoples of the coast around the country with fast routes to 34 ports seven days a week throughout the year, with what it will mean! So in the end, I could keep a piece of my own about what's happening to the railway. Because that's how we're going to put in place a new base path model. It turns out there's a lot to do before it's ready. He's not postponed indefinitely, on the contrary, we're working with him all the time. That is why today we are giving green light to investments of over 1 billion. kr in the Austland area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e503	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e507	To the summer crisscross from the Council of State: there is reason to recall that the roads have become worse. In 2010 and 2011, the government will total 80 billion. kr more at its disposal than it thought when the budgets for 2010 and 2011 were created. So it's not on the money. I'm not going to ask about nesting hubs, but I'm going to ask about the principle that the hubs represent – many residents could certainly want equivalent protection to that of the hubs – and it's the increasing environmental interference that comes with a large transportation project, which leads to an extended planning time, confusion, stop in propulsion, degradation, and not least also a worse transport or transport solution than what you started with. What does the Council of State think about this development? Is there anything she's interested in? Is there anything she wants to do with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e516	First of all, I have to say that it is good that Norway has put in place a natural disaster law that ensures that we take care of important environmental considerations in the future. Secondly, I'm constantly busy shortening the planning processes and doing what we can to simplify the decision-making processes, because I'm interested in getting as much work done and as much track as possible. I am interested that we will realise the National Transport Plan, and that we will also take care of what we have off the road and track beyond what we knew in 2009. Then we have to make important decisions, and we have to do it faster than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e523	The Council of State says that the base route model in the Austland has not been postponed indefinitely. It will tell me the opposite of an indefinite time – because it is not – and it is that it is a certain time. Then I thought it was a little strange that Stortingen has not been informed when this particular time is. We knew it was going to be 2012, but it has been an experience until the end of the coup d'état that this has not been a certain time. But now the Council of State says that the basic route model is not postponed indefinitely. Then I'll think it's a certain time, and my simple question is, When is that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e528	I have done well in the 2011 budget that there is a need for more substantial investments than what led to the decision on a new timetable in 2012. So I have also said that I will be delayed in connection with the 2012 budget will come back to a date, a time for a new timetable. I'm sure of that. But in the light of the experience I've gained on the railways so far, there's one thing that applies here, and it's to follow up projects on projects with the investments to be made. That's why I'm now very happy that we're actually giving green light over a billion to these investments in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e535	The Council of State therefore says that it is not postponed indefinitely, but what I am hearing – until now – is that the 2012 budget should specify a possible date. Then my question is: do we know, when the budget comes in 2012, what time does the Austland base route model have in place? So we expected this to be in place in 2012. Today we know he won't come in 2012, but we don't know if he's coming in 2013, 2014, 2015 or 2016. And then I have to say that my experience then is that it is postponed indefinitely. My question is: do we get a clear answer to this in the 2012 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e543	There may be a lot of things in this term for an indefinite period. This could mean that we put this project in a drawer or shelf, but it could also mean that we actually had to think that we couldn't be clear from the information that fell in and that the Storting has also been given a share in. We couldn't be ready for a new schedule in 2012. There had to be more thorough work. We had to be absolutely sure that we had the investments in place, not least because we're also going to phase in new trains in turn and order to get this done. And then my answer is that the representative Hareide can keep up with the deadline in the 2012 budget. We're working under high pressure to get what's going on for the new route model.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e548	I will return to the railway, as I mentioned so far in my post. On the route where we drove 30-40 km/h yesterday, I asked the staff, when we had a stop, why they drove so slowly. The answer was that it is because they have not been able to get away from work. There were two to three workers sitting next to them – but they had probably worked hard earlier. That's because these here aren't allowed to work anymore, he says. That was amazing, I say, it's not sure they had more people, but then you could probably rent in. Because it hasn't been on money, the Council of State has said. It surprised me a little bit, this, if there are simple things that could have been done by inserting some more. It is convenient to drive a train, but to drive for 30-40 km/h on a section in 2011 there are enough people who are not very satisfied with it. What does the Council of State have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e557	Let me first say that both Myraune and I know very well that when it applies to the railway, it is unfortunately decades of neglect. Therefore, it takes time to clear and correct everything. We have the ambition to resume the pursuit of maintenance. We've stopped the decay, we've got ambition to get back on track, and we've seen new projects start. And Myraune is happy that we're going to open the Gift Box now in August. Then I traveled with both the Dovrebahn and the Raumaban on Wednesday, and I was shown that there has been a lot of maintenance on the Dovreban. There's room for more, and there's room for more on the other paths. It will be better in 2012 than it is now in 2011. But we don't solve everything in these two years either. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e566	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4640]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e584	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the case's rapporteur gets the floor: we are in the situation that the current state council should have moved to be here in good time, if the plane had been on the route. He's on his way from the United States. The plane didn't land on the Gardermo. 8.20, which it was going to after the route, but at 8.20. 10:14. That means he's now on his way here. I then ask the present Council of State to be present, so that the Storting can continue its proceedings and negotiations. In view of the clear heart of the Minister of Transport, for example: Hubro – cf. the previous case – then the interests of the Ministry of the Environment should be well taken care of until the specialist council itself is present. If the Storting feels it is okay to deal with the matter that way, we will. I give the floor to the first speaker, who is the representative of Nikolai Astrup, the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e603	Outdoor life has a significant intrinsic value and shall not be assigned instrumental value in the form of e.g.: better public health in order to be defended and facilitated, although of course it is among the positive added value of individuals and society that can attribute an active outdoor life. Public access to nature and the ability to engage in outdoor activities are ensured by universal service. It is Right’s view that today’s legislation and current practice adequately guarantee the right of all people, even if we also see the need for some minor adjustments and clarifications. This applies not least to the legislation relating to cloudberry ploughing, where the Committee is consulted on changes to current legislation. All-man rights ensure public access to nature, but outdoor life often finds its limitations in other rules and regulations. This is particularly true of the new forms of outdoor life that have evolved in recent years. In Rondane, for example. prohibiting off-road cycling because the county thinks the wild train is being scared to see people on bicycles. There are restrictions on horse use on the Hardanger range and the county is now considering limiting the possibilities of ticking and other activities that may interfere with protection interests. On the Jären there is a ban on surfing along the beaches because it can interfere with seabirds, although this is rejected by leading expertise in the field. These examples show that a review of the Outdoors Act and other relevant laws and regulations is absolutely necessary, with a view to abolishing restrictions on new forms of outdoor life in Norwegian nature. We don't get such a review at this crossroads, and a total opposition asks the government to come back to Stortinget with this. We hope that there is something that the Council of States can meet – perhaps not this Council of States, but the Council of State that comes later. The Committee is of the opinion that any extension of the public's rights to travel on another's behalf must be assessed in the light of the conflicts of interest which this may entail for landowners and landowners. Unfortunately, the government is promoting a number of legislative proposals that in practice ignore this consensus. For example, the government proposes to change Section 1(a) by converting the forest plantation field from inland to outland. In the right, this will help to raise the level of conflict between foresters and those who enjoy the outdoors. This also appears to be an unnecessary step, as there is full opportunity to travel in plant fields according to current legislation, as long as this occurs on paths or up-to-date roads. Foresters are also obliged to keep paths and roads through plantations open to the public. When the plants exceed knee height, they are free to move in the plant field itself. The change therefore leads to a marginal gain for the tourers, but a significant disadvantage for the landowner. Also, the right does not support the government’s extension of the right to walk on foot in the inland to all paths, not just the reworked path, as today. It would also be unfortunate to introduce a general right to ride, cycle or ake on the road or a built-in path, even if this leads to outland. Today’s practice of voluntary agreements between landowners and outdoors functions satisfactorily, and the Right therefore sees no need to impose new restrictions on ownership on landowners. In addition, the government proposes a new regulatory home in order to allow counting closer to 150 metres from inhabited houses or cabins in coastal areas. This is a clear improvement from the draft consultation, where the government originally proposed the lifting of the 150-meter limit throughout the country – also for caravans and mobile homes. Fortunately, the final draft law was moderated, but the result is still not fully satisfactory. It is primarily due to the fact that the lifting of the 150-metre limit would ‘contribute to raising the level of conflict between open-air and landowners’, unless it confirms objective and clear limitations in the right to enumeration close to construction. A rule based solely on individual judgements about what is embarrassing and what is not embarrassing will result in more conflicts between the tour operators and owners, not fewer. § 35 is amended by the Government’s proposal. The right has not reserved itself against this change, but we note that the rights of the landowners are weakened compared to current practice. It's a weakening we can live with, but we'll still stress that today's practice has worked satisfactorily, and that it's therefore unnecessary to weaken private property rights. This amendment incorporates the range of proposed amendments to this proposition which the Right does not see as particularly necessary and which have not been promoted as demands or wishes of those affected by the law in everyday life. It may almost seem that the government wants to sign out a strengthening of the rights of all persons without the wish or expression of the need for the changes proposed by either accommodating organisations, landowners or municipalities. In addition to the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party that have been put forward in the vote, I would like to make a number of suggestions on behalf of the same parties. 3, about a clarification of § 40, which in case of an incurrency was not included in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e631	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e634	An active outdoor life contributes to quality of life and public health. For many of us, the use of nature has been a natural part of growth and life else. But today there are a lot of young people who don't get this experience. I therefore believe that the use of the sea, the mountains and the forest must be an integral part of the teaching of the basalt. Here the clay bullets do an important job. I know that from my experience. As a teacher, I often told the students that they had to forget everything they had learned from names inside the flora and fauna and had knowledge, if we had only managed to see a sprout in them that nature is something exciting that they wanted to find out in order to fetch forces, excesses and joy in an ever more urbanised value. There are three particularly relevant factors that affect us when we exercise outdoors. It's the physical activity, it's the environmental change, and it's the natural experience. But if we are to enjoy the amazing and varied nature that we have, we must also have access to the freedom to use nature. It's our job as legislators to contribute to this. Allemannsrechts stands strong in Norway, and the changes in the outdoor laws are becoming even clearer and stronger. The Labour Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party state that the right of all persons should be strengthened and secured, while the Advance Party and the Right oppose. They don't want to strengthen the rights of all people, not even the few, but the reasonable changes that are now being proposed. I expect accommodators and accommodators to notice. With minor exceptions, the law of the open air has remained unchanged since it was signed in 1957. In 1996, a purpose paragraph was promised that I thought was very good: ‘The purpose of this Act is to protect the natural environment of the open air and to ensure the right of movement of the general public, residence, etc. in nature, so that the possibility of exercising outdoor activities as a health-promoting, pleasant and environmentally friendly recreational activity is maintained and promoted.’;» It's a very important purpose. It's in the outright all-man's rights debt. It is therefore important to define what is defined as inward and outward. It is now proposed – as the case-leader was also involved – that forest plantations are no longer considered as land. We know that many people use these areas, for example. to berry sank, already now, and it is not that the plant fields will be more harmful, rather the opposite. A precautionary regulation will be developed to improve the quality of forest plant fields. For forest plant fields, the entry is not fenced, so people are already moving there. Another change gives people greater rights to use the path and the path in the field to get into the field. It helps to make open-air areas more accessible. There is a teki height for possible conflicts with basic owners and business owners by just banning movement if it leads to too much damage and disadvantages. The right to fall off the excess in nature is a continuation of customary law and legal changes in criminal law. When it comes to the right to pick moles in the three northernmost states, I have to say that the proposition was mildly said to be fairly unclear about what is and should be current right. It was then also interpreted in different directions, and I am glad that we have now been cleared up in the setting, according to good cooperation with the department. It's okay now to state that it's possible to pick and take moles as long as the owner has not made an express prohibition against picking. Regardless of such prohibition, the general public can always pick moths that get eaten in the place. Otherwise, it's good that there is a clear ban on signage and others that hinder people's legal access to nature, and that it is opened to create a regulation that allows counting closer to 150 m from dwellings in individual areas where there should be a special need for it. Finally, we need legislation, but it is the popular anchoring of all human rights that is the great force. Have to read the law, but many people have an idea that we have an all-round right in Norway. As long as we connect this right with careful movement, or what I would call the duty of all men, we can experience nature with peace and tranquillity and disconnect it from noise and pollution. I'm actually being tempted to end with: good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e658	Thank you, in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e661	It is the view of the Progress Party that today’s legislation and current practices ensure the right of all people in a satisfactory way, but the law can and should be clarified in some minor areas. Many of the changes are sensible, and it is important for the Progress Party to stress that outdoor life also has significant self-esteem, including: for public health. However, changes to the Outdoors Act can be made in a good way, and this can be done in a less good way. When government parties add to an unnecessary level of conflict between the people who live there and live on agriculture, forestry or farm, it is to do so in a less good way. The law on open air is now a well-established law, and the government is suggesting that the new law should be based on a more confrontational line, not a voluntary line, as it is today. When it is said from the Workers' Party that we disagree with some of the proposals, there is a truth to modification. It's about, we want local regulation, and we want the lowest possible level of conflict. One of the examples is the proposed extension of the right to move on the inland path. The assumption is that the path or the way over the private land should lead to the outland, but there is no requirement in the law that there should be a path or road further when you get to the outland. This is a clear and clear defect in the proposed legislation. Another example is the proposals contained in this bill on coastal areas retting and counting. In today's law it shall be 150 m from the inhabited house or cabin. Now this clear rule, to which everyone can relate, is repealed to become a subjective self-assessment of the individual. So you go from a clear code to a foggy code. If, as a traveler, you are going to tent, rest or have barbecues between the houses of a coastal area, whether in open air or in a tent, a trailer or a caravan, the individual shall decide what is embarrassing to the residents, what is trouble and what is awkward. You can imagine what eager party participants will think about that matter. Many of the municipalities, county councils and county councillors are sceptical about this change in law, and some are also totally opposed, because it will create unnecessary conflict. That is also the anchor point of the Advance Party. We therefore oppose the proposal and go to keep the current legislation in this area. A third example is the conversion of vulnerable forest plantations from land to land. This will help to increase the level of conflict between those who run forests and those who enjoy outdoors. Today's legislation has the full opportunity to travel in plant fields, as long as this is done on paths or up-to-date roads, or this happens where the plants are above knee height in size. A fourth example is the private road to housing and cabin, which currently needs to be closed in some cases. The reasons may be many, but we know that in many cases physical closures must be used to prevent unwanted traffic by car, motorcycle or moped. This is particularly true in cases of frequent burglary and vandalism of values and property, where it is essential to prevent free movement. The examples of this are many. The legislative proposal now requires such roads, when they lead to outlanding — and they usually do so in Norway — to open up ‘horses, bicycles, kennels or the like’. Then there is also free movement of motorised vehicles, at least with two wheels. In order to preserve its own ownership and to preserve its values, the owner of the property must in these cases apply to the municipality to close his own private road. If necessary, he must bring the municipal council with him on the team, and he must also get the county council to agree. Alternatively, according to Section 3 of the proposal, the owner of the land must ensure that the free movement is suitable to cause significant damage. We already know that this is a very demanding task. These points in the proposal for a new outdoor law weaken ownership, in our opinion. The right of access is also impaired. The proposition highlights the strengthening of the universal right at these points as positive, but it fails to describe a real positive change for all those who use nature, for pleasure and recreation. Nor can we see that the proposed changes are specifically requested. I can also finish with: Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e682	Allemannsrechts is a fundamental and important right that I am proud that Norway is holding high. Norway has done so for many years. Access to natural and outdoor experiences is greatly appreciated by the broad population. That is why it is important to strengthen and continue to safeguard the right of all people. I think that could also lead to a lower level of conflict between outdoor interests on the one hand and the interests of landowners and commercial interests on the other. I mean it, for example. it makes sense to prevent private owners from setting up fences for bathing, harvesting, residence, etc. It is also important to strengthen the possibility of staying overnight along beaches and svabergs. It'll be easier to find a tent space, for example. for paddlers and others trekking along the coast. We move the opportunity to intervene in order to facilitate the movement of land, from the Directorate of Nature Management, who is responsible for it today, down to the municipalities. It's very positive. I believe that the municipalities are in an excellent position to implement such measures, if there is no amicable agreement with the landowner. The representatives of Astrup and Aussogne pointed out that they considered that the bill does not take sufficient account of the grounds for motor travel. But here it is worth pointing out and reminding us that motor travel requires the permission of the landowner. It still does. It will therefore be allowed to continue to implement the closure of private roads in order to prevent driving and other motor vehicles. The normal use of road-bombs which prevent driving does not prevent the lawful passage, by foot or by bicycle or the other means of transport the representative mentioned. I'll be brief. All in all, these are reasonable legislative changes, as it surprises me that the opposition cannot join. I fully agree with the judgements of the representative, Mr Rudihagen. I intend to do nothing but join the wish for a good trip. The strengthening of all-man rights is important from a public health perspective – although it is not enough justification alone, in which the representative Astrup is quite right – but it is important above all because free movement has a high self-esteem in itself, especially in a country such as Norway, where so much of the population finds value in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e695	The universal right, with the right to movement, rest, bathing and coughing, is an important right that has a solid position in our society. For many of us, getting into nature and having an active open-air life is a source of recreation. It is also quite clear that the ability to use nature actively is also important for people's well-being. Private property law and the right to dispose of own property are another principle that is fundamental to our law. The relationship between all human rights on one side and the right of ownership and the right to rule on the other may be a source of conflict in some places. Therefore, it is important to have a balance that takes care of both of these two important principles of our law. It is also important that the right of all persons and the right to use nature are not unnecessarily stopped by overbureaucratic and rigid management in the areas that are subject to various forms of protection or care. It is important that there is room for activities that do not conflict with the purpose of protection, even if these are activities that use nature in new ways. It may even open up nature to new user groups — and there must be room for that. The law must be in line with the ‘time and opportunity’. It must therefore be a goal that these areas should also be used, so that the activities do not degrade the values of the big community. Resilient use is often the best protection. The bill opens to traffic on the road and leads through the inland ‘that leads to outland’, and it provides an important clarification. It is not as suggested that all paths are involved, but the paths that lead to the outlanding. Furthermore, it is open to the right to ride, cycle or ake on the road or a built-up path that leads to the land. For the Centre Party, it is important to point out that parallel to these adjustments, there will be a height of potential conflicts with fundamental owners and commercial interests by allowing owners and users the right to prohibit traffic that is capable of selecting significant damage. If traffic is an undue displacement or disadvantage to the owner or user, it is prohibited. In the case of changes to forest plant fields, which is an important matter, it is important to stress that a ‘precautionary regulation’ is to be drawn up, which means, for example, that: new plantings and vulnerable plants may be lost. The central game, together with the other parties, is to adjust the laws according to the right of the home. It should be an overarching objective to reduce potential conflicts between landowner interests and commercial interests on the one hand and outdoor interests on the other hand where this would be a problem. We know from the Center Party that where there is good dialogue, good cooperation, between these interests, it works well. Therefore, it must be a goal for all of us – at local level – to be involved and contribute to creating meeting places for that dialogue and to facilitate it. It simply avoids the use of laws, and in this case it is the way to come up with the best solution to avoid conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e716	The Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal in this matter, so I'm going to use my contribution on the supplementary proposal. But before I get there, I would like to thank the representative Rudihagen, whom I have appointed as a ‘multi-political spokesman’ because he has put in place the right provisions in this case, which has a 102-year history. Nice delivery, Representative Rudihagen! So over to the supplementary proposal, which I know is that the Minister for the Environment – who is not present right now – agrees with me, but that the government parties have so far not cared so much about. But I have an ambition for this debate that I'm going to move a little bit on the government. I know it won't be easy, but at least I'll use this post as an attempt at it. Allemannsrechts is an important part of Norwegian culture and tradition. This right is now perceived as being threatened by new user groups wishing to use nature in new ways. In some parts of Rondane, there is a ban on off-road cycling because the countyman thinks the wild train is being scared to see people on bicycles. On the Jären in Rogaland, there is a ban on surfing along the beaches at certain times of the year for the sake of overwintering seabirds. In the Hardanger range, restrictions have been imposed on the use of horses. The rules require the application for permission from three different counties if one wishes to cross the range with several horses. Hardanger gauge is also a favorite place for kiting, which is one of the most recent outdoor activities with great appeals among young people. For the time being, there is no individual limit for ticking on the wide field, but the county is now considering limiting the possibility of ticking and other activities that could interfere with the protection interests. On 19 April this year, the NRK launched a programme in the series «Out into Nature» entitled «Sorry closed!» The programme posed a growing problem for the growing number of restrictions imposed on new forms of open air in Norwegian natural areas. Representatives of these new user groups stated in the programme that there is a new culture of bans in progress in Norway, and they believe that the law of the open air and the rights of all persons are threatened by this. The professional and scientific basis for several of the restrictions imposed by the county officials is disputed in the programme by researchers and experts. Among other things, scientists and behavioral biologist Anders Landberg rejects the fact that wave surfing affects seabirds negatively. The statesman’s representative defends the surf ban along the Jærtrenden that these interests – those that surf on the waves – appear to be ‘rare and a little strange’. This attitude does not want the Christian People's Party to build under. We want those who want to surf our waves to do it. So the Christian People's Party is critical of a development where new forms of open-air that invite physical activity and expansion, and which not least appeal to children and young people, are subject to more and more restrictions. I believe it is a major challenge for us as a growth generation to facilitate physical activity and outdoor activities among children and young people. And I'm glad that Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has made such a clear programme statement about removing restrictions and opening up nature to new user groups. For the purposes of this programme, the Council of State states: ‘It shall not be a single rule or restriction more than necessary, and if there are too many, we shall have to reduce them. It may be that time is now ripe to give more permits. We're going to fix as far as it can be done for all the new forms of outdoors. [[...]] [[...]] You must not wear nodded and old worn-out backpacks on the tops of Jotunheimen – there are many other outdoor forms that are just as good.» In the same programme, the Minister for the Environment expressed his wish to be a Minister for the Environment who brings young people back and forth in nature. I agree with Solheim, and I think he's in for what he says. That is why, from the opposition's point of view today, we have put forward a proposal asking the government to review the law on outdoors and other neighbouring laws and regulations for the purpose of removing restrictions on new forms of outdoors in Norwegian nature and opening the door to new user groups within the ecologically sustainable framework. I see from today's news picture that the Ministry of the Environment believes that the undersigned mixes matters when I address this matter today. This isn't mixing things. Citations are used by the Council of State, they use the intention of the Council of State, and they promote an additional proposal, which I hope the government parties will be able to participate in and transmit to the government through this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e746	Many wise things have been said about outdoor life, about how important it is for the Norwegian people, about the rights of all and everyone's access to our own mountains. We have to think about the fact that through history, if we go back a few hundred years while the death penalty was still practised in Norway, it has to be judged to be peacefully significant that we had to move into those places that were somehow free places also for the law, that is, up in the mountains, so we have also had an attitude about moving in Norwegian mountains like moving outside Norwegian law. But now we're going to discuss open-air law. Now they're well regulated, down to every smallest detail, the areas in which you could act before, sail if you were judged out of peace. The left is of the opinion that the government has presented a matter here with few, but sensible changes to the law on outdoors. I don't like to point out that the Christian People's Party and Right-wing representatives are wrong, but at some point they have to be wrong, because we agree with the government here, so it's not an overall opposition. I hope the Christian People's Party and the Right continue to define us as part of the opposition – at least we want to – but we intend to vote with the government today. We've gone into a lot of things about new forms of outdoor life. The left supports the development of all possible new forms of outdoor life, but when you go into the individual issues involved, we think that the county officials around the country have made wise and good judgements. We have to remember that there is sometimes a lot of activity, not only with the outdoor activity itself, but also around it, which can cause damage, for example. seabird during periods. We also have to remember that seas if we are open to new open-air modes, it has to be done in such a way that they do not override traditional open-air life, as we do, for example. has been seen here in Oslo, where the use of Marka is being transformed. There's a very different perception of them like this. sits on a bicycle, and those who walk beside it, about whom it is that overrides the outdoor experience of the other person. So this has to be done in wise and good ways. We think it's important to balance each individual case in relation to nature's needs in relation to the other ways of living outdoors, but we'd like to facilitate new ways of using our nature. Then we think it's a wise decoration in terms of the concept of plantations. I've grown up with that if you're going to go into a plant field, you're not going to do it when the person who owns the plant field sees it, and second, you have to be very careful, so no one notices that you've done it. You've grown up to be on the edge of the field when you're going up to the woods, and at least you have to be very careful as the plants grow. This is common public information when you grow up in the village and play a lot in the woods. I think it's a sensible decoration that's now being done today, but it's important that you have a relationship that there's actually a lot of effort behind a plant field. I have seams planted the spruce forest and got a lot of mosquito bites in that kind of summer job. There's a strain that lies behind them, and seeing people ruin what you've been through is never a pleasant experience. The left also opposes a new proposal for § 40 that is here today, because we believe that today's law works well, and that the outdoor councils will have a wise handling of this in the future. Summary: We are going to vote with the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e763	The right of universal access, with the right to movement, rest, bathing and coughing, is an important and fundamental right that is important for recreation in nature, for an active outdoor life, and has clear positive consequences for people’s well-being. This basic right is widely negotiated and, in the view of the Progress Party, is secured in a good way, but the law should be clarified in some areas. All-man rights are an important part of Norwegian culture and tradition, but it is now perceived as being threatened by new user groups who want to use nature in new ways, but are faced with more and more new restrictions. In parts of Rondane, there is a ban on off-road cycling because the county manager of my wild train is afraid to see people on bicycles; on the Jären in Rogaland there is a ban on surfing along the beaches at certain times of the year of concern for overwintering seabirds, and on Hardangervidda there are restrictions on horse use in succession. In the NRK programme "Out into Nature" entitled "Sorry closed!" we saw more examples of this, including: claimed that there is a new forbidden culture going on in Norway, and many believe that the law of the open air and the right of all persons is threatened. The professional and scientific basis for several of these restrictions, which were implemented by the county councillors, was met by researchers and experts in the programme. What characterises these new forms of open-air activity is that there is a young user group, and for these, it is important that the positive meaning of open-air life is passed on to their conditions, so that several young people are recruited to these open-air forms, which invite physical activity and expansion. Too many of today’s young people are currently sitting on computer games, and it is therefore uplifting that the Minister for the Environment in the same programme expressed a desire to be thought of as the Minister for the Environment who brought young people back to nature. But he doesn't do that through bans and meaningless restrictions that we got documented in the television program. Therefore, the Progress Party is also asking for a review of the outdoor laws and other similar laws to remove these restrictions on new forms of open air in Norwegian nature and to open up nature to new user groups within ecologically viable frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e774	I came here today to take part in a debate on a joint proposal in the field of transport. There was a special case – a bridge – that has now found its solution on fv. 714 and where both the local population, the government and the Stortinget have made an extra round as a result of the new natural disaster promise. Brua has found its happy solution for both business and construction, it is a shorter road, a more road safe road, and we show in practice that we also take care of the environment. This matter that is being dealt with here now, I believe Erik Solheim with the greatest joy would have turned out – we know why he is not here. I have to say from my point of view, when I have been sitting here, that it has been interesting to listen to what has been said here, to the balances that have to be made here all the time between the rights of all persons and fundamental interests, and the relationship between a bureaucracy and local balances. I'm going to give some good advice to Erik Solheim about reading the debate. All articles have been written. The proceedings go back to the open-air groceries message, St.meld. No 39 for 2000-2001. It tells something that sometimes it goes very quickly to change laws in certain fields, second times it takes the necessary time for evaluations. – And now Erik Solheim is coming to the hall! It's very good – for interested representatives who have signed up for a reply, so I just repeat to Councillor Erik Solheim once again, that I would like to give a good advice to read all the articles from a particularly interesting and informative debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e785	The President has also said that we are honoured with the presence of two councillors – that is not every day! Then it's probably most natural that the councillor, Solheim, takes the place to respond to the lines of the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e790	Actually, I would like to put this line to the Central Party Council, because it deals with the transformation of plant fields from land to land. The government proposes to define plantations as fields of land and thus opens up free circulation in fields of newly planted forest. Today's legislation provides the tourist with every opportunity to travel on the path or road through plant fields and to travel in plant fields when the plants have reached knee height. My question is therefore: does the Council of State see that the change of government will be a marginal gain for the tourist population, but a significant disadvantage for those who run the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e799	Here I think I'm the right person, not the Central Party Council. I'm almost sure I'm a much bigger forest owner than what the municipal minister is. I don't want to say I'm grown up in the field, but at least I spent a lot of time in the summer holidays in childhood being with my father on the lawn to clean up weeds to make sure the plants grew up. So I think we can see that this proposal is both a relatively limited disadvantage for forest owners and a relatively limited benefit for the tourist community. All walkers in Norway do not walk around plant fields. That's why they don't bring anything down either. Then there is also a relatively limited disadvantage for forest owners. The aim of the proposal is to further open up and mark very clearly the right of all persons. I think, as I said, the disadvantages are very limited. But, of course, everyone who walks around on a plant field should make sure they don't trample down plants, and that they don't do any kind of damage. This also applies to all other movements both in the interior and outland – it is not intended to damage the property of others, it is not intended to damage the nature at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e806	I'm going to quote the Council of State, and it's a little bit easier in terms of lines: ‘It shall not be a single rule or restriction more than necessary, and if there are too many, we shall have to reduce them. It may be that time is now ripe to give more permits. We're going to fix as far as it can be done for all the new forms of outdoors. [[...]] [[...]] You must not wear nodded and old worn-out backpacks on the tops of Jotunheimen – there are many other outdoor forms that are just as good.» There is the statement of the Council of State in the programme ‘Out into Nature’ entitled ‘Sorry closed!’ I am so pleased with this programme statement that the Council of State gives, and I used it in my article in this room earlier today. My question now is: what is it that the government parties in the Chamber today say that ok, this matter should we send over to the Council of State and get a review of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e818	First, I found out that I was going to call State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa municipal minister. She is Minister of Transport – I just had to correct that misunderstanding. Otherwise, I'm glad that the opposition parties are addressing this question. These are questions I want to address much more thoroughly. As I see it, it's a professional question. If chiting, surfing, whatever it may be of new open-air forms, is a significant disadvantage for wild rain or a significant disadvantage for hedged birds, it is clear that it is not possible to allow that activity in important protection areas. On the other hand, if there are activities that do not put any lasting traces in nature and do not have any permanent destruction, I see no reason not to allow it. I am convinced that there are no open-air forms that are correct and others that are less good. I have also shown this, for example. to allow snowboarding VM in Marka and have snowboarding ramps there. So I have a positive basic attitude to this, but it's a professional question. I want to come back to Stortinget with more material about this. I think it's too early to put it in the budget, as the opposition has suggested. I can come back to this later possibly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e825	Allemannsrecht is strong in Norway, including among the various political parties. The question is how do we best facilitate its application, whether we should do it through a volunteer line, or whether we should do it more through a confrontation line. I think, among other things, the steps taken by the Bondevik II Government in the field of voluntary forest protection, and the success of this, show that the volunteer line is often much more constructive. Now the government is proposing changes to this with the marking of routes in the outfield. In the past, this has been based solely on dialogue with the landowners, while the State will now be able to intervene if one does not reach an agreement. This has been an area where there have been little confrontations. That is, you have been constructive from all sides to find good solutions. So my question to the Council of State is whether he is not at all afraid that making a rice behind the mirror in itself can seem like a red cloth in relation to the landowners and create unnecessary confrontations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e832	I think we have to admit that the rights of all people are the fundamental right to go to other people's property. It's not the right to go in the areas that no one owns. It's not disputed anywhere in the world. What is fundamentally different in Scandinavia and possibly a few other places in relation to the rest of the world is that I have the right to go on Siri A. Meling's property, and Siri A. Meling has the right to go on my property – and she is also cordially welcome to go in our forest properties in Øyer, for example. This right to go to other people's property, I don't think it's something you can institutionalize just by volunteering, and I don't think it's come through volunteering in Norway either. It has come through strong rural public opinion in Norway, which has managed to institutionalise this, incontroversial terms, for example. to large landowners and others who had a different vision. So it's come through a political struggle, for which I'm not supposed to say that the Right has been the main driving force. But it's positive that there's a broad consensus about it now. So it's not comparable to voluntary forest protection, which is, of course, compensating and paying people for a service that is both in the public interest and in the public interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e839	I want to continue a little where I left off, because what the government is proposing about forest plant fields is to replace a fairly clear and objective rule with a precautionary rule. And then we see the parallel to what you do by raising the 150-metre limit for coastal strips, where you also replace an objective rule that's not to be misunderstood, with a discretionary assessment of what the individual thinks is a problem for residents, cabin owners or who it might be. Does not the Council of State see that this will help to raise the level of conflict between private owners and tourers? Let me add that we're not necessarily opponents of having something lower limit of meters in coastal strips, where it's tight, than you have in the mountains, where there's good space. But shouldn't this limit be objective and not misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e847	Here I wonder a little bit about the Right's own logic, because what we're doing is not to say that the Ministry of the Environment should sit and decide where to tent around in the whole country, but that there should be an opportunity for the municipalities to make decisions based on local circumstances that one should be able to count in more detail. So it's those people who know the conditions best – for whom the Right so often argues – that have the opportunity to do this. I cannot help but understand that it will reduce the level of conflict that the municipality is trying to deal with this in the best possible way. But, of course, the theme of all human rights versus property rights is a conflict-filled theme. It's been in Norwegian history for hundreds of years. It's the other places in the world, too. What we're doing now is not taking any huge steps, but we're moving some mileposts further in the favor of the Court of Human Rights. So I have to say that caution not to destroy something does not apply just to plantations, it applies everywhere. Anyone moving on another man's or woman's property shall be careful not to destroy anything. You don't want to ruin anything if you go to the general public, where no one owns anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e856	In the television programme ‘Out into nature’ entitled ‘Sorry closed!’ we saw many activities in nature, especially by young people. From the same programme, we also think that the Minister for the Environment wanted to be thought of as the Council of State that brought young people back to nature. Of the different activities we saw, there were activities that might take some time to find a good code around. But at the same time, there were also activities for which a relatively fast person must be able to go in and find good solutions, without a bureaucracy and spending a long time on it. For example, I would like to mention this with surfing on the Jären, where a small hold on a 100-metre-long shoreline, which does not seem to be a major intervention. Does the Council see that not to miss this outdoor activity is hasty to open up to that type of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e861	First of all, I just want to say that young people also participate in many of the traditional outdoor activities. For example, there has been a colossal cleansing of the long run through this winter because of the ski World Cup, a good winter and much more. Amazingly many young people go out and do the most typical Norwegian of all, at least since Fridtjof Nansen's day, i.e. long-haul. But in addition, we would like to provide other open-air forms for those who want it, as mentioned here, boarding, kitting, snowboarding and many other open-air forms. If they don't destroy the protective values, of course it has to be a reason. But here we cannot say an absolute yes or an absolute no, but have to make a concrete assessment of whether these outdoor forms have adverse effects on national parks or on wild or bird life. And now we're going to try to do those equations. I can't bring this back to Stortinget in two months, as the reality is for the government budget of the autumn, but I'd like to come back to Stortinget on another occasion. We can, for example: in the State budget for 2013, but also in another form, if the Stortinget so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e868	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e873	I take the floor because I am confident that the Minister for the Environment will take the call from Minister for Transport Meltveit Kleppa to read the minutes, but it is also good to tell him when he has come to the Chamber. I would like to stress that it is very good that the Council of State has a positive basic attitude to the question that I raised in the line, to facilitate new forms of open air. I am also pleased that the Council of State so clearly says that he will return to Stortinget. He says 2012 is too early. It was a bit challenging considering that he saw clearly earlier in our statement that he would do this. But I understand that 2012 – to the state budget – is too early, but maybe he could say 2013. And we're going to figure out the time. The important thing is that it happens, because this is what it is important to facilitate. I share the objections of the Council of State that we should facilitate outdoor activities that do not put permanent destructive tracks in nature. The proposal also states that it is within a sustainable range of thinking that we must open up new forms of open-air ‘within an ecologically sustainable framework’, as the proposal states. There's no doubt about it. No one wants to facilitate activities that destroy our nature. With regard to the representative from the Left, who took a small settlement with the undersigned in his post: the Christian People's Party first sees on the Left as an opposition party – I see the representative listening to the debate – and the Christian People's Party, like the Left, supports the government's second proposal for changes to the outdoor law. Where we split up a little bit, it's enough to see if it's possible to make more changes to the law on outdoors and other laws that facilitate the opening of new forms of outdoors. It shall not distort the traditional open-air forms for which the representative Skei Grande was concerned. We'll take care of them. But I think, like the Council of State, that nature is best taken care of through an active use, and the active use is different from the growth of the young and the children. That is why we also need to open up where possible within a sustainable framework, and say yes when adults, young people and children will move more in nature, both from nature and from a public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e884	When I read the setting – although there is disagreement about a certain part of the individual points – I have to agree with Siri Meling that it is clear that the rights of all persons are strong in Norway. The issues on which there is disagreement here are small adjustments to the outdoor law, and not difficult changes to it. There are small adjustments that go in the direction that I think is right, namely further affirming the rights of all persons, which is a hard-kept right through long political struggles in Norway. Then I just want to say to Line Henriette Hemdal and also to the Progress Party – Right is definitely in agreement – that I come back to the Stortinget with material about this. I'd like to have a dialogue with the committee on what's the right form of it. We would like to present that in the State budget for 2013. Of course, we can also present it in a different form, if the committee so wishes. I want to take an intermediate position in this debate between the two extremes. One extreme is that this kind of activity, based on a little bit of free vision, can't be thought to harm wild fauna, bird life or other things. It's an impossible position. The second is the tendency for some open-air forms to say are morally more high-valued than others. That's what I said ironically, that going with a worn backpack and in an old nod on the Galdhøpigg as well has a slightly higher moral status in the Norwegian image than the status of young people surfing the beaches of the Jären. I think we have to accept the breadth of these open-air forms; they are all good and fine. It's not necessarily better to go on a cross-country ski than to run a snowboard in the Wyllerlöpa. Then we also have to make sure that it is not the type – what to say – of inherited attitudes that make you say no to something, a little for safety. So between saying no for safety and saying that everything is okay, without really having any professional basis for it, we have to find a way. Here, too, it's not that all the areas of protection are the same. In some areas of protection, the provision of outdoor life is a very important part of the protection itself. When we protected Oslomarka, it was with the triple reason sports, outdoors and nature. In other protected areas there may be specific natural qualities, but it is also often possible to facilitate outdoor life. So what it might be possible to do on a case-by-case basis, requires a local assessment at the end of the seventh, but we're going to try to put a platform for national knowledge-gathering about it, and so will the concrete assessments, among other things. had to be made by the new protective regimes which are now being set up with local power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e893	For the sake of order: the President reminds us that all contacts between the government, at the Council of State, and the Stortinget are taking place in Stortinget, and that the Stortinget then sends matters to the committees for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e896	I want to go back to the question of rushing and counting. The bill refers to returning with a regulation to provide for a precautionary measure. Today we know that the rules and the law say it should be 150 meters from the inhabited house or cabin to the area where to rest. If I perceived Solheim as correct, he said in response to the representative Astrup that the municipality itself could decide by the precautionary regulation how far it should be between resting and counting and that settlement. The proposition — under the Ministry’s assessment of this issue — states that ‘it should be made clear that regulations may authorise the enumeration of more than 150 metres from inhabited houses or cabins in coastal areas’ and ‘introduce a separate precautionary provision in the regulation’. It's possible I didn't get the point, or what was important here, but I'd like to ask the Council of State whether it's the municipalities – i.e. the local democracy – that are supposed to design and adopt such a regulation, or whether it's a central rule of the law itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e909	In social democracy, we have an expression: do your duty and demand your right. When we have a universal right, I think it's just as good to stress that we have a universal duty. Of course, taking into account both the landowners and not least the nature when traveling in both the land and the land should be, and I believe that is also largely the case. There are some claims here that these changes to the law will lead to an increase in the level of conflict between the basic owners and the users. I don't think so, rather on the contrary. It is also underlined by a joint committee in the setting that: ‘there must be an objective that amendments to the Outdoor Law contribute to predictability and a minimum level of conflict between open-air interests on the one hand and landowners’ and industrial interests on the other’. Then it's made like now jumping one over the volunteer line. No, of course it should apply. Initially, a voluntary agreement between the owners and the users is to be agreed upon. It is expressed in the proposition as a comment on the proposed change in Section 35 that it does not involve «any change in the practice of voluntary agreements» and «sees it as desirable to reach agreement with the landowner». But then there's still a home to intervene if there's no way. Then it gets focused on this by getting young people into nature. That's very good. I also said some of that in my post, with the background that I have been a camp principal for a few years and had the task of stimulating young people to discover how exciting nature is and to use nature. Then it's true that just telling the youth that they're going to go out into nature and go out, it's not very motivating. But taking them into nature to do something, discover something, be curious – often with a little different activities, whether it's climbing in a mountain creek or paddling on a water, can be a tool to get young people to use nature, which I think is very important. That's why it's very good that a searchlight is directed towards the new ways of using nature, to get them into nature. I totally agree with Councillor Solheim that one should look at this and perhaps come back to the Storting with it in one way or another. But what is important, of course, and as the Council of State stressed, is that nature must be at the root of how far a new activity can be allowed. But otherwise I would like to welcome this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e923	It's not so often I get the opportunity to commend the Council of State, but I want to do so now, given the constructive attitude that the Council of State of this Parliament has given to try to find good solutions to facilitate various types of leisure activities, especially for young people. It is at these times, when young people thrive a lot behind screens, particularly important to incorporate good habits early, and then you have to have an open and good arrangement for them to be able to carry out their activities in nature. I think that should be a cross-politically important point of view. So I look forward to it, and the Right should be constructive and be involved in finding good solutions to facilitate this type of activity in nature. Then I want to pursue my question in the line change with the Council of State instead. My question went on this with the marking of routes in the field. When I compared it to voluntary forest protection, it was based on the principles of dialogue and volunteering as the basis for finding good solutions for all-man rights, versus having a law that allows the state to intervene if there is no consensus. With regard to the marking of outland routes, this has been based until now on a dialogue between landowners and those who want to mark, and in most cases it has taken place in a way where one has found good solutions. So the fear of the Right goes on to make adjustments – large or small, in this case small adjustments – that weaken ownership without actually being in an area that has proved to be conflictful. We fear that in itself it may be provocative on landowners. Therefore, our desire and focus is that one can solve it within a voluntary framework, without necessarily having a law in the back that allows the state to intervene. It is often where one finds the best solutions for the preservation of open-air life and the right of all persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e934	Let me start by confirming the last Siri Meling said, and as Torstein Rudihagen did, namely, that of course you should go as far as it is possible to do in voluntarily. Reducing the level of conflict is always a good thing, but I think you get very far with volunteering. The changes made here are not huge changes. It's the movement of polestones – a little bit in the direction of all-man rights – and then we get to do the best we can to get it done in the most voluntary way possible. I am also pleased with what Siri Meling says about the so-called new forms of open air – some of them are not newer than they were quite common at least 20-30 years ago – in a historical perspective. I will provide as best I can a professional basis for this. I don't want to challenge the President's expertise in constitutional matters at all. Of course, the government presents this to the Storting, but it has never been a barrier to dialogue with a committee on what kind of questions you want information about. That information can be informal, and then we can formally present this to the Storing in the absolutely correct way. So I would like to end by saying to the question from the representative Aussogn: the party of progress has often been the main one to promote the view that Norway looks very different, that when we are to protect the beach zone, we have to remember that the beach zone in many places is not 150 meters, that there is no place to build behind, because the mountain goes straight to the sea. This is what it looks like in many places in Norway. But that argument also goes against it here -- there's a lot of places that would actually be very difficult to count at sea unless you're a little bit more simplistic to this 150-meter requirement. We're submitting a general guideline that we're making this possible, but no municipalities will be forced to do this. It's local authorities who decide if they want to take advantage of the opportunity to give people the opportunity to tent closer to a house or cabin than 150 meters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e946	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e949	The desire for a review of the law on outdoors and other neighbouring laws to remove restrictions on new forms of outdoors is so important, I believe, that the time perspective for when we can get such a case should not prevent it. That is why I would suggest that we change the year in proposal No. 2 from ‘2012’ to ‘2013’, because I feel that the Council of State wants to deliver a case from the government to the Stortinget about this. I hope that the government parties here in the Chamber have listened to the desire of the Council of State to have such a review, that we can agree that we will, and that a perhaps joint committee – at least – can support this, if not a single Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e956	The President saw this as an amendment to proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People’s Party – that in line two, it is written ‘2013’ instead of ‘2012’. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 4640]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e987	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e996	The Committee agrees that peaceful buildings represent a very important part of our cultural heritage. Many of these peaceful buildings are privately owned. Maintaining these buildings may be a bit of a challenge. It would be almost impossible without a large private initiative to preserve them. Owners have a lot of knowledge and make significant efforts. We would have come much shorter in cultural memory work without them. With better grant schemes, we believe that grants to owners can be more effective than a general deduction scheme. Grants can be put in place where the needs are greatest and deliver best results. The Riksantik product has completed a state-of-the-art assessment of the protected properties and from there has a good knowledge base, which can contribute to the optimal use of the grants. It is also the case that the Ministry of Environment has long worked with a view to creating better and more predictable framework conditions for owners of peaceful buildings. The economic situation is better than ever. The Riksantikvarn budget has increased by 70 pst. since 2005, and a greater share has improved the framework conditions for owners. It's both good and important. The Ministry of the Environment is assessing a model to ensure annual maintenance grants to the owners of saved buildings – as I said a little about initially – that have come up at an ordinary level of maintenance. The purpose of the scheme shall be to stimulate owners to maintain on an ongoing basis. I would also like to mention that in the context of the financial crisis in 2009, the government granted 223 million. kr in employment funds, which were earmarked for action in the field of cultural memory. Seventy-six million. kr of this went to the owners of peaceful buildings – and there is not little money in such a situation. In recent years, the government has significantly strengthened the Cultural Memory Fund. What is very positive, and which is very good, in addition to everything that has been done, is that the Ministry of the Environment, together with the National Association of Construction Industries, set up a website in 2010. The portal, which is under development, shall ensure the owners of, inter alia: well-preserved buildings with good and free information on maintenance, materials use, craftsmen with special skills, etc. The Ministry of Environment has contributed not only financial resources but also knowledge and competence. It is important that we have good and solid craftsmen to take care of this value. So finally, I would like to stress that the national product is concerned with creating predictability for the owners of peaceful buildings. In recent years, the Directorate has worked hard to establish a good dialogue with the owners, to identify the state of the buildings and to implement the necessary measures, in order to achieve the long-term objective of achieving the normal level of maintenance of all protected properties by 2020. And we hope that this goal can be achieved. I am submitting the setting with this, as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1019	As the representatives behind the proposal in case No. 4 refers to, peaced buildings are an important part of the country's cultural heritage. Nearly 5,850 buildings in Norway are protected by cultural monuments, and a majority of these cultural memories are privately owned. The authorities impose on the owners of peace a responsibility and a statutory obligation to maintain the peaced installations. Peace buildings are thus imposed on a number of demands and limitations that make the maintenance of these buildings very expensive, and today there are few public incentives that encourage the smooth and well maintained maintenance of peaceful buildings, which are a means of preserving them for the future. At the same time, it is also the case today that there is an important and good cooperation between private actors and the public cultural memory device. Of the relevant measures proposed in the draft representative: reconciliation of peace build national exemption from property tax reduced equivalency for peace build better accompaniment arrangements for ordinary maintenance strengthening of Norwegian cultural memory funds and back-up arrangements through the national antiquities Within the current system, the Ministry of the Environment contributes to a certain extent to economic resources and knowledge and competence. The Councils of State wrote to the Committee that, in addition, the Ministry considered a model to ensure annual maintenance for the peace building needs to be maintained regularly. The majority of the committee expects the department to continue its efforts to find forward-looking solutions for these peaceful buildings. There is a broad consensus that there is a need to review the current code of conduct for forward arrangements, including the role-sharing between the national antiquities and Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund for the sake of simpler and clearer rules of conduct, in order to ensure the greatest possible effect of the funds in the rehabilitating and maintenance of all our peaced buildings. Peace building that is preserved and can be used in one context or another is the best guarantee that the future will understand the past and the buildings of date. So some words about the comments of the Progress Party in this case. As mentioned earlier, a number of requirements and limitations have been imposed on buildings that make maintenance of these buildings particularly expensive. Today, there are no good public incentives that encourage the smooth and well-kept maintenance of these buildings. Rather, many feel that at the top of their efforts to preserve their cultural heritage, they also have to pay taxes on this property. The Progress Party wants to give the owners of the Peace build a better chance to take care of and maintain these buildings. Better arrangements will probably also have a beneficial effect on the motivation of the owner to take care of these cultural taxes. The party of progress believes that it is unacceptable to bind private property and buildings through peace to the joy and benefit of the community, without it being compensated and facilitated so that the owner does not suffer financial damage because of such peace. Norsk Cultural Heritage also demands the reintroduction of VAT exemptions for the restoration of peace and security facilities as tools, in order to achieve the objective of reaching an acceptable level by 2020. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1061	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1064	Cultural memories are an important part of our common cultural heritage, and it is the opinion of the Right that the community must facilitate the preservation of its cultural heritage in the best possible way. Throughout history, individuals, families and communities have maintained works and monuments that are now part of our cultural heritage. It is these people and the environments that, in the past, present and future, are the main driving force in maintaining cultural memories throughout the country, and it must be in the interests of the community that the public is making the best possible provision for them – and far better than today. A very large proportion of the country's cultural memories are now privately owned. It is important that we who sit in this house recognise the efforts of private owners to preserve our common cultural heritage, often under demanding conditions. Maintaining and maintaining peaced buildings and cultural memories requires considerable financial resources, including: as a result of the requirements and limitations imposed on the owners by the authorities. Today, there are no public incentives to encourage the maintenance of peaceful buildings. The result is that important cultural memories mature in many places in the country. Many owners of rescued buildings have high current maintenance costs, maintenance which in many cases require special skills in traditional crafts. As an additional challenge, many experience significant property taxes and property taxes on buildings with limited applicability to the owner. As the Minister for the Environment points out in his letter to the Committee, the property tax is not a state matter after the Bondevik II Government has removed the tax on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings. However, the Government has the opportunity to adopt a national exemption from property tax for the use of saved buildings if it so wishes. Moving responsibility to each municipality is too simple in this case. In many cases, owners of many preserved buildings experience a significant equation of the property stock and thus risk being put in the property tax position on assets that do not actually generate any income at all. The removal of property taxes, as strongly argued by the Council of State Gishe, could of course solve this challenge, but pending the adoption by the Government of the Gishe Council, it would help owners of peaceful buildings to minimize the equivalency of peaceful buildings. The accounting of peaceful construction is another measure that should be assessed, and a proposal to that effect was made by the Right in the context of the 2011 State Budget. The other measures mentioned in the proposal are improved grant schemes for the maintenance, strengthening of Norwegian cultural memory funds and grant schemes through the national antiquities product. The right is satisfied that the government is showing a willingness to respond to these proposals and measures. We need good framework conditions if we are to preserve our common cultural heritage. We don't have that today. We owe those who stand on every single day to preserve cultural memories and peaceful building on behalf of the community, to accommodate as best we can. And we can do better than the government has shown so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1087	I have had the pleasure of having lived in a peaceful house in that part of Norway with the highest density of peaceful construction, namely in the King's gate on the Kalvskinnet in Trondheim. It is also the best city in Norway. Thomas Angell's rooms from 1770 were originally installed for women who had fallen into poverty, but there I ended up a few years anyway. Built in 1927, it was a very instructive place to live. Such buildings live, they're organic structures, they squeak, they move a little, they react to the environment, they require very special maintenance and attention. I think the vast majority of people who own and live in such buildings look at it as a great joy and a privilege. At least I did, even though I was just a tenant. Therefore, I believe that Norway needs mechanisms to stimulate the smooth maintenance of this type of building. It is important to prevent decay and very expensive ship perch. That is why I also agree with the Ministry that maintenance grants for buildings needing regular maintenance should be assessed. Stimulating the use of such buildings is often the best protection, and it is also a prerequisite for these cultural memories to provide insights, experiences, identity and access to our common cultural heritage. There was also a bonus in living in this building that there were still people coming in as part of the urban hikes in Trondheim. It just meant that I had it pretty tidy in the kitchen. The red-green majority has helped to strengthen Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund considerably in the years we have managed, and the yield from the fund has almost doubled since the red-green took over. In addition, a meeting place has been set up for owners, craftsmen and producers of products and materials for preserved buildings. I also believe that the Riksantikvaren is doing a very good job of getting a better dialogue with the owners of peaceful buildings, monitoring the state and implementing measures. The cultural memory field also has many challenges, and I am very happy that the entire committee is involved. Cultural memories often form an important part of a larger environmental and landscape image, and it has to be seen together. Although someone thinks it's a little strange, I think it's quite natural that it's the Ministry of the Environment and our committee that's responsible for the field. Nor should one ignore the fact that future impacts of global climate change also have a part to say about cultural memory policy. A number of buildings and other important cultural memories will be affected by changing climate, changing weather and changing temperature, etc. That is why, as I said, it is quite natural that the Ministry of the Environment and our committee are responsible. Even more important is the fact that all political Norway is united on the objectives of cultural memory policy. It is important for the preservation of our cultural heritage, and it provides predictability that is very good, and that has been there for more than six years now. It provides a long-term perspective for all those who manage this responsibility, not primarily the underlying agencies and authorities, but all these people who own these buildings and these cultural memories. But I think more debate is needed. I can see that a joint committee is also doing that. I have a great deal of understanding of the proposal to promote a new big message on cultural memory protection, and therefore I am also very pleased that the Council of State today announces that it will promote a new big message on cultural memory policy. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1102	The representative's proposal deals with an important matter. The central party is concerned that we have a duty to manage cultural memories so that the coming generations also get joy and knowledge of them. Cultural memory is a unique source of insight, identity, experience and nourishment, and cultural memory is a field that hastens to be lifted. Peace Building is an important part of our collective cultural memories, and the Center Party is busy with good arrangements for those who want to take care of peaceful buildings. The government is increasing the budget in this area to reverse a negative trend, and then, as the representative Serigstad Valen pointed out, there are still major challenges that we need to face together. A number of measures have been taken to improve the state of Norwegian cultural memory. I would particularly like to point out that private now receive compensation for expenditure on archaeological work. In addition, there will be an up-to-date review of the status of private-owned peaceful buildings, and the dialogue between the owners of peaceful buildings and authorities will be strengthened. Let me use the rest of my article to highlight two great examples that are both important cultural memories, which are stories from our history, and which both hopefully will be on UNESCO's cultural heritage list if not so long. In Hyllestad, a built-in area in Sognefjord, we find a location with a production that became an important hub in many households around Europe in the 700s. Dropping scraps of broken and failed millstones and marks after cutting in rock walls tell of a large industry. With its 27 km2, the kvernstein quarry in Hyllestad is one of the country's largest foresights to the extent. Through Bergen, stones were sent around, including to Denmark, Sweden and the continent, and the wrecked shiploads – it was the stones that were not sent around – show the fairway for the deployment of the Hyllestad stone. Far the greatest found, with 505 millstones, was made in Alversund in 1990. But also further south and in the South there are found shiploads of kvernstein just from Hyllestad. Other products from these quarries, e.g. Cliffs, lizards, rocks, diaphragms, and tombs, find one also known. It shows a very important part of our history and maybe shows the first major industry that we had in our country. Another important cultural memory – and great cultural memory – is Rjukanbanen. The Rjukan track is one of the most important unique objects in the application for Rjukan and Notodden to appear on UNESCO World Heritage List. The road was built in time as a completely necessary transport system. The path transported raw materials and products into the uniquely located industrial town of Rjukan and product from factory cans there and out into the world. International experts on technical and industrial cultural memory also emphasise the unique value of the Rjukan Railway as a transport system. The railway journeys «Ammonia» and «Storegut» were satisfied on 9 August 2009, on the 100th anniversary of the Rjukan Railway, where some of us were delighted to be there. And in addition, Telemark County has announced that the rest of the Rjukan Railway will be peaceful. Telemark County Municipality and the municipalities of Tinn and Notodden are behind the Rjukanbanen Foundation, and the plan is that Rjukanbanen should be consolidated with the Norwegian Industrial Workers' Museum. It is a solid and good project in collaboration between the municipalities, the county council and the rickishman in connection with the preservation of Rjukanbanen. Municipalities, county councils and the Ministry of Environmental Protection have invested money in this fissure layer. It is still said that a bite from the Ministry of Culture. The nomination work for the entry of Norwegian industrial history into the UNESCO World Heritage List started in autumn 2010. This was marked by the invitation of the Ministry of the Environment and the National Antiquities to a public meeting at Rjukan. The plan for follow-up is to send the application to the Committee in Paris in January 2013, so that Rjukan/Notodden can become a World Heritage Site in 2014. That application will be reinforced if the Rjukan Railway is also provided with means for dissemination, which is the Ministry of Culture’s main contribution. I hope that the Minister for the Environment will have a dialogue with the Minister for Culture in this field, so that we can get the necessary initiative and highlight these UNESCO candidates to the attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1124	St. Report. No 16 for 2004–2005 Living with cultural memories presented by the then state council Knut Arild Hareide is the big message that the cultural memory field is governed after today. The cultural message of 2005 gave a huge vitalization of cultural memory awareness both in this hall, in government and among the people most. There have been many discussions on the decisions taken on cultural memory policy. It would have been really busy days for cultural memory policy if these decisions were to be complied with, for by 2020, the annual loss of protected cultural memories shall be minimised, peaced and conservation-worthy cultural memories shall be ensured and there shall be a normal level of maintenance. There shall also be representatives of different capacities and cultural memories shall be peaced by 2020. Then it's going to be busy, because we know that eleven saved buildings need to be restored every week if we're going to achieve the 2020 target. On the part of the undersigned, it is still an objective that we should achieve the 2020 target, but we know it will be demanding. The cultural memory budget is not a budget to be called for. It's small funds, but they're being used very well. The Riksantikvar said about the current year's budget that owners of peaceful buildings have reason to be disappointed. But then you have to use the means we have in a good way, and it's done. It is done very well with small resources, and we know that in the field of cultural memory as well as in other sectors it is alternative to being part of and strengthening cultural memory policy – such as using the home of the Property Tax Act, which exempts property taxes for buildings with historical value, or through other private initiatives. So you think creatively, because you have a desire to preserve cultural memories. But it's not to hide that there was a tough report the Riksrevision gave us in 2009 related to the follow-up to the cultural memory field. I guess that was some kind of criticism. We have to take that on board, because it's the way important cultural memories don't have to be lost. That was what this report concluded, that they could be lost, and that there was a danger that the national performance targets set by the Stortinge had not been met in 2005. The Council of State, by letter of 11 May 2011, informed the Committee that it would come back to the issue of cultural memories, either by means of a self-identification or by another appropriate means. The Christian People's Party will be in favour of its own new big message for the cultural memory field, but we see that the Council of State is drifting. Perhaps there are some signals in the post afterwards, but what's important to know is, when will there possibly be anything? Because if you don't know when, we have to think about other tools in the period until a new big-time report. Because we can't afford to lose cultural memories, and that's what we know is happening. In order for cultural memories not to be lost, at least we need to know what we have, and therefore municipal cultural memory plans are very important. I have mentioned that with the Council of State in the past, but I believe that this tool that we have in some municipalities, but that over 280 municipalities are missing, is important to know what we have, and to be able to take care of it. And when we know what we have, and then we can take care of it, people can see it and use it. We're going to live with cultural memories, and by being part of our everyday lives, they're part of our community, our culture and our history. That's how I think we'll best take care of cultural memories, but we don't know about them, it's hard. My challenge to the Council of State is that municipal cultural memory plans become a focus of the 2012 budget. It's small funds, but they make a lot of difference. The Christian People's Party will support such initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1141	Norway has a quite privatised cultural memory field. I've often wondered, if Oslo had been Athens, if we had as many cultural memories to show if all the excavations and all the exhibitions were to be privately funded, if one were to exhibit their history in that way – a very large proportion of the cultural memories, what is our common cultural heritage, are cared for by private owners. The problem is that what has created great wealth and beautiful cultural memories throughout history is not necessarily related today to ways of nutrition that generate equal incomes. It is not certain that the large farms with old, beautiful houses have the same income base today as when they were built, for example. Perhaps families have been given a historical inheritance to take care of which there is currently no income base for caring in the same way. That is why we in the Left support today's proposal to look at the tax system and how it can be stimulating. We have a great inheritance to take care of, and that job must be done in such a way that both the state and the owners feel that they are actually playing the team. What we see in many places around the country is what might well be called speculative decay, where owners are imposed so much protective restrictions that they don't see themselves able to take care of the property, and let the maturity do the job for themselves. In any case, as a city politician, I have many examples around the city of the fact that protective provisions can often force such a speculative decay. I think it's important to have a planning and building law that can prevent the speculative decay, but it's also important to have noise and good arrangements, so that those who are charged with such a responsibility actually feel like they're playing with someone to take it. The left will do two grips, as it says in our program. One is to strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund, which was established under the Bondevik government, and which we are quite proud of. We've added on the left side of every budget. The cultural memory fund is a good construction, which makes it easier to preserve cultural memories even in private ownership. Then we believe that we need to look at the tax system. Suffering if the government parties today do not vote in favour of the proposal, I still hope that the council will tear out the sheet, put it in its pocket and take it to the office until he starts working on a message. There are many good input from other countries that have managed to get good models, because Norway is not unique in the number of cultural memories. There are many other places around the world that have considerably greater weight to take care of. There are countries that have dramatically much more poverty than us — for example. you can walk around St. Petersburg and see the huge job it is for a country that is really quite poor compared to us, to take care of the cultural memories of a whole city centre – and we should not be anything worse than those countries when it comes to preserving their heritage. I have understood that the Council of State says he will make a message. We're very happy about that. Now he probably gets the word after me, and then he might say when such a message comes, and whether he's going to take along the proposal to look at what stimulus you're going to have for private people who have that responsibility, actually feel that they're on with the state when they get a responsibility to take care of something for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1156	As Line Henriette Heimdal said, government and Stortinget's policy is based on a big message by Knut Arild Hareide – Live with cultural memories. It has laid a good foundation for what has happened in the period, and we have every respect for the work done by Hareide in that regard. However, let me add that it is the red-green government that has filled up the fund and the instruments that were formed there. The fund was formed by the Bondevik government, but is filled by the red-green government, and it usually turns out that it is filling up money that is the most difficult. I'm just asking for some credit for that. So in the period that the red-greens have been sitting, the appropriations for the rickshaw have increased from 152 million to 273 million. kr. There were large appropriations under the action package, and I have just submitted proposals of 45 million. kr to Bryggen in Bergen. So even though I agree with Mr. Hemdal that just calling out loud hurrah would be across the street, we can well at least lift a tiny little flag and say that quite a lot has happened in recent years. So if not a loud hurray, maybe a little hurray could be in its place. And then we have to use it as an incentive to move on. I want to meet the opposition's wish for a big message. I believe it should be possible to present it either in the autumn of 2012 or early in the year 2013. In any case, I have the clear ambition that this should be dealt with by the current enlargement, and that the message – in the same way that Hareides' notification provided the basis for what happened in the post-crisis period – should provide the basis for what will happen after the 2013 elections. What should it contain? I have no problem discussing in such a message the proposals that come here about different forms of tax exemptions, but I will already notify them of a significant scepticism. There is also a type of proposal that the opposition likes to take on the opposition, but that – with all due respect – when one sits with the power of the Ministry of Finance, it turns out to be considerable reluctance against. The reason why this is obvious is that eroding the general tax system in very many areas creates difficulties. It is a selection of proposals for different groups in different areas, for example: are to be exempt from VAT, for very good reasons in each case, but it always turns out that if you do so for one group, the claim will immediately come from other groups which compare with it. We're talking about an area here with significant demarcation problems, and the disadvantage of using tax exemptions rather than using direct subsidies is that tax exemptions do not necessarily premise the buildings that are the main reason to take care of, but give the greatest benefit where the owner has the greatest income and thus the greatest benefit from the tax exemption. So using public funds to support the buildings it is most important to take care of – we are not going to be able to take care of all buildings in Norway, and not all constructions in private ownership – is more accurate. But I have no problem discussing these issues in such a big message. What I consider to be the most important single theme of a big message, is the question of value creation, which has been raised by many in the debate. Use and protection is the best protection. Things that are passively protected, just standing there, almost never have any good protection. The best form of protection is when either individual owners use the buildings and thus see themselves earned to take care of them, or when they create a return for a community, either in the form of pure money, for example. tourism income or other, or in the form of great enthusiasm, patriotism, enthusiasm and joy over it, which is not measurable in money, but nevertheless is a very important value. So this value creation element has to be a main element of such a big message. The notification should also address some of the individual areas for which there is a great deal of interest in Stortinget. I know that several of the representatives are concerned about the protection of vessels. To the 100th anniversary of the ‘Hestman’, which is the last remaining warship in Norway, the ship is now finished, and the anniversary will be opened in Kristiansand – I think it’s September 23rd. Protection of vessels is an area we need to look at further. The same applies to technical and industrial cultural memories. Erling Sande was inside Rjukan, Notodden and Odda. There are important areas of action in the future. I also want to mention another theme that I want to include in this message, and it's war memories. We now have the absolute last generation of people who lived during the war and who can tell about it. After that, taking care of memories from then on, also in the form of physical places and buildings and things that can tell the story about them, will be absolutely central. There is also an element I want to address in such a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1174	If someone wants to ask for a line, there's a technical access to it on each plot. Siri A. Meling has asked for a line, after the inauguration of the Council of State was held. She gets access to lines. The president almost wanted to add: under doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1179	I just want to tell you that I tried repeatedly to press to get a line, without it working – I'm sorry. I expect that the Council of State is also impressed with the many private owners who are laying down work and resources to maintain peaceful construction. Although the appropriations have increased, as correctly pointed out by the Council of State, the challenges are very large, not only within the peace of building mass but also in many other areas within cultural memories. In achieving these objectives – the level of maintenance – by 2020, it is important to bring about effective arrangements. So my question is, does the Council see that the proposals that, among other things, are currently sketched out on the issues we are dealing with, can be effective tools to actually achieve these targets by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1188	I'm 110 pst. agree with Siri A. Meling that the voluntary effort made by an incredible number of people in Norway, by the love of the building or cultural memory that they have attached — often in respect of previous generations that have built it — is a crucial prerequisite for achieving it. We will never get there that everything is going to happen over the public budgets. Without that spark, the ‘driving’ from individuals, we would never be able to do it – and we should do what we can to stimulate it both in terms of money and, of course, also in terms of honor, recognition and respect. Step Skei Grande had a significant point here: it is clear that the economic foundation, for example. for a large farm, there might have been a hundred years ago, but it's not the same way today. So it's a difficult task to take care of – let's say – a large bunk house that could once and for all be financed by the farm. I have no other answer to that than that the most important thing is to get secure public instruments, so that those who do something here get compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1197	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1202	Cultural memories represent great values for individuals and for society. It is therefore important to ensure that the diversity of cultural memories and environments provides a basis for knowledge, experience and value creation. Owners of cultural memories manage an important part of our common cultural heritage. Throughout generations, families, individuals and teams have taken care of construction works and structures, which are today an important part of our cultural heritage. The Progress Party believes that proud, committed and active owners of cultural memories are the main asset of cultural memory protection, and that the Cultural Memory Act should therefore be designed with a right element that allows the owner to obtain financial compensation – and incentives – for any loss that he suffers from the preservation of the property and for the burden of any increased maintenance and care requirements. National performance targets are: ‘National performance objective 1: the annual loss of protected cultural memory and the cultural environment as a result of removal, destruction or decay shall be minimised and shall not exceed 0,5 per cent annually by 2020. National Performance Objective 2: Peace and peaceful cultural heritage and the cultural environment shall be secure and have a normal level of maintenance by 2020. National performance objective 3: the geographical, social, ethnic, economic and temporal scope of the decision-making cultural memories and the cultural environment shall be enhanced and a representative selection of cultural memories shall be achieved by 2020.’;» In other words, cultural memory policy is characterised by great vision, but much indicates that the Stockholm decision in 2005 will not be complied with. The National Audit Office’s study on how the Ministry of the Environment discharges national responsibility for peaceful buildings points out a wide range of non-targeting points that are in stark contrast to adopted objectives for the protection of cultural heritage. The National Audit Office points out many points that clearly challenge such a goal — an inappropriate bureaucracy is one of several. In Here and Now at the NRK on 1 October 2010, Trygve Bragstad from the Early Memory Association said that the bureaucracy around protection and conservation in Norway is so complicated that even bureaucrats are struggling to understand the system. The Progress Party is concerned that a heavy root and bureaucratic system related to cultural memory management can help many to avoid taking satisfactory care of conservation houses and buildings. The proposers also refer to complications and conflicts between the authorities and owners of Hotel Union in Eye in connection with the desire to expand the hotel. The project illustrates conflicts that arise within different architectural groupings, some of which believe that new additions to old buildings must clearly break the visual expression, while others are comfortable copying the style of the protected building into the new one. This case clearly shows how the practice of cultural memory policy depends partly on the views and ideology of individuals. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State signals that it is willing to send a big message in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1228	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 4644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1236	The size goes to voting. Case No. 1, the statement by the Minister of Health and Health on the situation at Oslo University Hospital HF, has already been adopted, annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1294	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 3, by Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 3 are included in the setting on pages 7 and 8, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, says: ‘The government is asked to review the Outdoors Act and other adjacent laws and regulations in the context of the 2012 State Budget to remove restrictions on new forms of outdoors in Norwegian nature and open nature for new user groups within an ecologically sustainable framework.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting. In the course of the debate, the proposal also corrected, with the year 2012 being changed to 2013, and it will be corrected when the proposal is presented as a matter of its own at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1547	It is first voted on in Section 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1558	It is then added to the first sentence of Section 1a, Section 3a and Section 9, second paragraph, the fifth sentence. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1572	Alternatively, the other paragraphs of I and proposals No. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law of 28 June 1957, No. 16 in the field of open air life is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1688	It is then added over II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1698	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1708	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1716	During the debate, Oskar J. Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget with proposals for a set of better incentives for the maintenance of peaceful buildings.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The proposal has also been accepted by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-10.ana.ud655e1763	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
