ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e72	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Anders Aune died on November 13th, 88 years old. Anders Aune was born on 1 May 1923 in Stjørna, South Trondelag. His father started working in the village, and Anders Aune was already a member at the age of 15. After agricultural school and artium he started studying law. From 1943 to 1945 he was in German captivity, which was guiding his commitment to peaceful cross-border cooperation. After the release, Aune completed the studies and became a cand.jur. in 1948. What came most to characterize the trouper Anders Aune's true reality was his expedient efforts for Finnmark for more than 40 years, both as an official, an official and a politician. He was, among other things, the director of the hospital, the head of the county office and the county from 1974 to 1989. Aune's political involvement in and for Finnmark began immediately after arrival at the state in 1950, and as early as 1951 he was elected to the City Council of Vadsø for the Workers' Party. He was Vice-President of Vadsø in 1951 and 1952 and rapporteur from 1953 to 1960. Anders Aune was elected to the Stortinget for the Workers' Party from 1969 to 1973. Although he was proud to be a member of the Workers' Party, in 1989 he signed up for too much distance between the party's policies and what he thought was necessary measures to meet challenges such as the fisheries crisis and the decline in the population of Finnmark. In 1989, Aune was again elected as an independent representative to the Stortinget. Here he gained an impact on improving the framework conditions for Finnmark, mainly through tax relief, schemes that exist today. Anders Aune is also regarded by many as the architect behind the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. Aune was a member of the Financial Committee for both of his periods at Stortinget. Anders Aune was knowledgeable, willful, and libertarian. In his dedicated work of creating security, prosperity and growth in our northernmost state, he did not spare himself, either as an official or as a politician. In 2008 Aune was honoured with his own Bauta in Vadsø. In 1985 he was appointed commander of the Order of St. Olav. In reverence we remember Anders Aune for his community effort and work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e95	The representatives of Morten Høglund, Dagfinn Højbråten, Øyvind Waksdal and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative, Bjørn Lødemel, from 6 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Jacob Nødseth, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e132	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e146	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to their speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e157	Norway has a good health system. Most patients receive rapid and good treatment. Employees in health care stand on every single day. They comfort, relieve and treat people in their most vulnerable moments, whether they are sad, dramatic or happy circumstances. But we also have a number of challenges, and I would like to point out the following: it continues to be that mentally ill, addicted and chronically ill people are discriminated against and do not receive treatment as well as those with the most common somatic diseases. Too many wrongs and bad events happen. The knowledge center believes that as many as 4,500 people can die every year as a result of mistakes, shortcomings and unfortunate events in our healthcare system. Many of these errors are related to poor information flows, both about the patient and about the patient, the misuse of medicine and diagnosis. Increased waiting lists for treatment for all those who are not receiving immediate help are a major problem, and one still has strong trends towards a more two-part healthcare system, through increased sales of health insurance, self-paid treatment and privately funded treatment services in areas that were initially to be prioritised at the top of the public health system. The OECD report on the Commonwealth Fund study in 2011 states that we spend the most money per capita on health care, and we are among the countries with the highest expenditure growth studied, so the patient’s diagnosis cannot be a nutritional deficiency. Fortunately, this also marks the Norwegian health debate. There is little debate that has as its starting point that you need to spend more money, and basically the health debates are now influenced by how we can improve the offer, and how the money can be used better. We can also see that from the various budgetary options that are being discussed here today. The challenge of being the country that spends most on health — without having the best results — will become stronger as a result of lifestyle diseases, an ageing population and new costly treatments. But I'm optimistic. Some of this will be resolved through progress and new medical solutions. Just think about what is happening outpatient today, had required hospitalization, which only a few years ago, and think about everything that was expensive and new at the beginning — which has now become common and cheap — for example. MR studies. The vast majority of the population who in the years to come get gray hair and gray car, not only become seniors, they also get fresher, richer and more active than their parental regeneration. On the news today, we could hear that the scooter has been replaced with a spinning machine. They want to spend more of their own money on keeping healthy, being active and getting help. But it will still be naive to close your eyes to these challenges. Then we will soon be able to experience that we are left with a health care system that is not sustainable either economically or in relation to work, which does not deliver high quality, and thus loses the legitimacy of those who pay for our health care system. The right has different answers than the government to these challenges. The aims of the cooperation reform are shared, and the purpose of the reform is precisely to prepare our health services for new challenges. The Minister of Health wants to present the opposition as opposed to the reform. That's not right. We just want to do it another way. We want a reform that grows from the bottom up, not from the top down. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Right proposes to replace the government’s money move between hospitals and municipalities with a co-operation billion. This shall contribute to financing concrete interaction projects locally. At the same time, we are proposing to build up the competence of the local health service, so that it is the competence and quality that governs when municipalities take on new tasks, not forced and financial punishment. I am very pleased with the agreement reached by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the consideration of the big message on the cooperation reform, which we agreed on through the treatment of the two laws and the new national health plan, and which is also clearly reflected in our alternative state budgets here today. The specialist healthcare service is characterised by the fact that it is now the healthcare companies that own the patients. Right wants to create patients' health care. We need to strengthen the patient's position in relation to the health care system. Today, only in Canada do patients have to wait longer to meet a specialist than they have to in Norway. No one is getting fresh from waiting, and an MR study won't be cheaper if it's taken on the next quota. Therefore, the quotaing of healthcare for people with a right has to be removed. Patients must be helped to find the most rapid availability and the patient must be given free treatment options. The National Audit Office's report on free hospital choice shows that better use of the scheme will lead to reduced waiting times and better use of healthcare capacity. In a system where the abdomen fits the oat sack, the patient will lose weight. We've shown that this works before. We need to use the available capacity of the private part of the healthcare system through public and private cooperation, where the patient is allowed to choose. The working party must like to call this market thinking. But I would like to remind you that this is about patients' ability to get treatment quickly instead of waiting. It's the government that has to pay, anyway. Politicians must be willing to give priority to health services. Then I don't think it's up to politicians to give priority to what doesn't give health benefits, but that's nice to have, while it's the job of those who work in the healthcare system, to look the patient in the eye and say no to life-long treatment. We need to have a clearer priority within the health system. We need to strengthen drug care, psychiatry and rehabilitation. But we also need to follow up the proposal of the Wage Committee to give priority by means of graduated components. Today, there is no link between health priorities, the working line and the goal of interaction on the one hand, and the ownership structure on the other. Therefore, there is a need for a public sample that goes through the marginalities in the field of health and proposes changes that build on the objectives we have set ourselves for health. Today, we spend a lot of money on low self-esteem for large groups that have small health costs and good income, while at the same time being unable to provide them with poor finances, a good enough health care. Today, the government of the health care system is giving priority to this by means of the cooling system. This warned the Wage Selection against. The greatest risk of using queue as a priority is a two-part health service. Those who have good finances will then buy treatment privately and take out private health insurance, and those with normal or poor finances will remain in line. The strongest proof that the red-green health policy is not working is that in Norway, there is now a market to establish private cancer treatment that people pay for themselves. It would have been quite unimaginable just a few years ago. Knowledge and innovation will also change our healthcare system in the future. But it requires a commitment, both to advanced medical research, to what works in the community health service, and not least to innovation in service and how one can solve complex health care tasks. Right rates of research and development in all areas. Unfortunately, the government is in the wrong direction. The removal of the gift enhancement scheme will reduce cancer research – based only on gifts from the Cancer Association – by 15 million annually. Errors and unfortunate events require changes in management, culture and system. Here again, the Right has promoted a comprehensive proposal, which is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy. Right-wing wants well-being that works. We want a good public health service, which is the patient's health service, and which is sustainable in meeting the challenges of the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for its good work and, in particular, to thank the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party for their good cooperation on the main part of the remarks in the vote and all the proposals that we are promoting together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e197	The President then perceived that Bent Höie had taken up the proposals on the right on its own or on the part of the rapporteur. It is given access to line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e202	In the financial debate, the Right spent a lot of time on our competitiveness and stressed the importance of keeping a tight budget, so that we do not risk unnecessary bankruptcy in our export industries. In the light of this, it's interesting that the Right proposes to grant 2 billion. kr as loans to health enterprises in 2012 for upgrading ICT systems. In its draft budget, the Right has treated this loan as an interest-rate compensation scheme with a cost of 35 million. kr in 2012. The loans to health-care establishments shall be carried over the line of the State budget. This has not been taken into account by the Right. Thus the party has approached the economic thinking of the Progress Party in a dangerous way. My question is therefore: it seems right that it is sound policy to break with our budgeting system in order to camouflage an increased expansion of 2 billion. kr and thus break the premise of the rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e211	The model proposed by the Right here is very wise. Unfortunately, I have to inform you that it is from Trond Giske, who introduced the exact same funding model for the development of schools and sports buildings in the municipalities. The wise thing about this model is that it does not make hospitals dependent on saving money to reduce patient treatment in order to invest in ICT equipment necessary for better and more rational operation. It leads both to efficiency and, not least, to what is at the heart of the cooperation reform, to better interaction with and about the patient. This means that hospitals do not have to pay down this investment until after five years, when they have already gained the benefit of the investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e216	In the alternative draft budget, very modest changes are being made to the health budget on the right. If you look at the total frames, it might be barely 1⁄2 pst. a change in relation to a budget of 140 billion. kr. In the amendments proposed, there are re-priorities, which the representative Höie had in mind in his statement – 400 million. EUR 325 million for rehabilitation/rehabilitation and drug treatment to be taken from the framework of healthcare establishments. kr i efficiencies. The draft budget contains, for example: not specified where to take the money from for rehabilitation and habilitation. There's got to go beyond other treatments, and where exactly is this money going to be taken from?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e221	The questioner explained it in part in his question. In fact, we have proposed a combination with a clearer priority – as I also explained in my speech and as I believe it is necessary for us to take political responsibility for – an even clearer priority of drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation at the expense of somatics. The second is that we propose an improvement in the effectiveness of our hospitals based on a report that regional health companies themselves have produced, where we take a modest share of what they themselves believe is possible by implementing some measures, including: neutral VAT in enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e226	Earlier this year, the Right presented a position on quality in care, where the party dramatically advocates a privatisation policy for the health field where commercial health operators should be able to establish themselves freely without an agreement with the public. This means that the multinational health group can start up with hospital services within medical areas that they themselves want, and in areas of the country where they see that the prospect of benefits is greatest. The question to the Right is: what's the point of a politically constructed hospital plan, which also goes in the right direction, when one simultaneously opens up to a large-scale commercial establishment of specialist health services for which the public must pay, but not have influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e231	Firstly, it is not right that it will be a free establishment. It will be an approval system as it is today. Only those approved in terms of satisfactory quality will be able to offer their services to patients who have been referred from their permanent staff or from a specialist, and thus have a need for treatment. There will be no one who wants to establish offers where there is no need. It was also our experience when the Right was in government the last time. When we opened up for private use to a greater extent, they adapted to where there were cows, that is, where the public didn't solve the problem. As a result, during that government the hospital queues were reduced by 50,000 patients, while under this government they have increased by 70,000 patients. So that policy we know is working, and it'll be positive if more people join in and contribute to solving the health challenges we have in society. No one's getting fresh from being in line. No one is getting fresh from this government's rationalization policy towards sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e236	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e240	Good health and care services are one of the foundations of a safe welfare country. When you get sick, make sure you get good help, and the offer is just as good for everyone. We're going to have a high-quality health care system that's at the forefront of both medicine and technology. We're going to have care services where the individual is seen and met with respect. At these times it may be necessary to remember that we, as elected representatives and politicians, have a special responsibility also for those who do not have action groups or anyone who goes on a torch. We take this responsibility best through a public health system, and we have a good health system. We're at the forefront of medical and technological research. We treat more and more people, and more people get good treatment. There are many more diseases for which treatment is now available, and many more survive diseases of which they have died in the past. OECD measurements show that we are now getting better and better. In the case of a number of diseases, we've climbed up to the top of the world in terms of survival. It shows that we're on the right track. Even though a lot is good, we're not satisfied. There's room for improvement. The working party's way of doing this is to dry up and set ambitious targets. We've always done that. That is why today we also have one of the world's best welfare systems. I'm not worried about meeting the resistance to our new goals either. The right-wing parties have historically been critical of many of the reforms that have built the country. It's still like that. We are well prepared to be exposed to campaign journalism for our new, ambitious goals of how to have cancer treatment in the future. We tolerate having the opposition against us when we're going to continue to convert to achieve the goal of even higher disease survival, and we can withstand having the opposition against us when we're going to start and implement the Interaction Reform. We're doing what we said to the voters: we're betting on welfare rather than tax cuts and privatisation. In the budget for next year we add up to an increase of 1.4 pst. for hospital treatment. It shall provide growth in ISF treatment and increased capacity for drug treatment, psychiatry, outpatient clinics, laboratories and X-rays. There's also a total loan of 350 million. kr for investments. 300 of them go to the capital process, 50 to new A-fløy at the University Hospital in Tromsø. Unlike the Right, we have, of course, covered this loan over the line of the State budget, according to the legislation. In the current debt turmoil in Europe, it is more important than ever to be responsible for the budget. We must pursue a budgetary policy that does not risk jeopardising jobs in the export industry. The cooperation reform, which begins at the turn of the year, will be an important reform in the coming years. Next year's budget, we're going to spend 740 million. kr for interaction itself in addition to the 5.4 billion. kr we transfer from the health companies to the municipalities. This will help to get this important reform going. Here, it is important to learn from those who are already good at interaction, to school locally using the KS course package, and to develop skills and offers for both prevention, treatment and follow-up after hospital treatment. The aim is more cross-sectoral planning in municipalities, better coordination within healthcare services, for the benefit of the patient. I would also like to mention the effort we are making in the care sector. Although we have one of the world's best offers here too, more is to be done, not least to meet an increasing ageing population. Here, recruitment of employees, empowerment, together with capacity, will be key factors. The fact that we have increased by about 19 000 annual works in the care sector from the time we took over shows that we give priority to this rather than taxation. In comparison, according to the SSB, 1,600 annual works were reduced in the last year of the Bondevik II government. But those bets, as we know, on tax cuts. The 2008 financial crisis has been replaced by a crisis in countries due to high debt and high deficits. Saving banks is a simpler task than getting states on false grounds. Anxiety and uncertainty in one country can easily spread to countries that are not in crisis. It's in the light of this more important than ever to relate to the world. We give priority to welfare over tax cuts. We prioritise quality and patient safety rather than more privatisation and fragmentation of the professional environment. We prioritise conversion and renewal rather than simple policy solutions and stagnation. We owe our colleagues in our neighboring country to be aware of the lucky situation we're in, in relation to them. We are now discussing how much growth we are going to have in the different areas, while they are now removing important benefits for their inhabitants. We believe that our proposal for the 2012 government budget is a budget for work and value creation and well-being. Our budget has become an environment of unrest and great uncertainty. Therefore stability and predictability are particularly important this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e264	There was a lot of finance. I'll ask for health. The government parties show in their comments that they are satisfied that the government has followed up the guarantee of dignity in a good way. At the same time, several newspapers have shown on several occasions that the municipalities themselves say that they do not find anything new in this guarantee, and therefore will not do anything different. Is it true that the guarantee of dignity is like the guarantee of cancer, i.e. no guarantee, but just a medical recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e273	I understand that it is demanding for the opposition to get what is said by the position. Now, for the past two weeks, you've had a number of problems in this room around what you call a cancer guarantee. It has been clarified time after time by both the Minister of Health, Prime Minister and others that there has never been a guarantee, but about a goal that one wants to achieve in order to improve survival after cancer treatment. Setting ambitious targets is a way of getting political strength to succeed in improving society further. It's a tactic and a technique, and as the opposition might try once, instead of just working against everything that's new, and with a conservative attitude to everything that can improve our welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e280	The quality of the provision to pregnant women has been identified. It's poor midwife service, midwife preparedness and follow-up service in the municipalities. In addition, there is low basic staffing at the food departments, which in many cases leads to quality defects. And it was cut in the budgets both in municipalities and health businesses. This creates a great deal of anxiety and insecurity in pregnant and pregnant women, and health care has revealed major deficiencies in maternity care and is of the opinion that it threatens patient safety. Now the Workers' Party will spend up to 60 million. Dr on early ultrasound testing in healthy pregnant women, which is considered by the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health Services to be of no health benefit to mother and children. My question is whether it would not have been better to spend the tens of millions of dollars on strengthening the provision of maternity care, maternity care and maternity care, on measures that we know work, which will have great health benefits for mother and children, and which will ensure the safety of the pregnant, the birthing and the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e289	I share the representative's concern about the lack of quality. I think you should acknowledge that there are challenges in health care in the future, even if a lot is good. Especially for those who are pregnant, that feeling of insecurity is perhaps extra stressful. This is why Norway is now developing where half of Norwegian women take early ultrasound privately. It says something about the insecurity they have, and the need to know if there are life in the stomach, or if there are other problems you can figure out. I believe that the public health service must take over the anxiety that pregnant people feel, which means that they then choose to pay off private pocket to go to private clinics and take early ultrasound. The majority of the national Council found yesterday – by 11 to 8 votes, it was a divided position – that we should introduce this into the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e296	In the general remarks on the government party budget, there is a good deal about prevention, and that the cooperation reform in many ways, as I read it, will depend entirely on much prevention. In terms of rehabilitation, rehabilitation and prevention, there is consensus among all parties that success in the cooperation reform will mean an incredible amount. At the same time, we know that there is a sample work on rehabilitation which is unlikely to be completed before the reform is implemented. What should the first line service and the second line service do? There is little or no funding available for prevention to municipalities. So my question is: is the representative sure that the municipalities will be able to cope with the big change this is, when we know that rehabilitation is not in place, and we know that there is no specific means of preventing this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e303	I am absolutely sure that many municipalities have already come very far in the question, while the other municipalities again have not started properly on such a process. That is why we want to phase in the Interaction Reform over time. I think we should be humble because we also have geographic challenges related to the cooperation reform, because some have closeness to special competence, others are far away. That means that we can't create a common template for how to solve this in each municipality. I think that the key to getting on with this is that you locally and regionally discuss what capacities we need to get better at, among other things. Rehabilitation and the capacity for which we still need to use the specialist health service. Then, in the coming years, you'll be able to build capacity and competence locally in the fields where you can see holes in the offer to your inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e313	Despite the fact that hardly any country in the world spends more money per capita on health than Norway, and despite the unquestionably having one of the world's best health services, the challenges lie in line. We are all proud of the Norwegian healthcare system and the healthcare system, not least thanks to all the people working in the sector at different levels. But our job must and should be to do what's good, even better and do what's not working, to something that works. Sadly, it is little comfort to the many who are waiting in line for treatment. The starting point for this budget for the Progress Party is therefore in need of substantial changes related to the structure, funding and instruments of Norwegian health policy. In no way should it be seen as anything but a sincere proposal to do things better and more effectively. The need for increased interaction between different levels of administration in an increasingly specialised healthcare service is more required than ever. Unfortunately, the agreed Cooperation Reform does not respond adequately to the challenges facing us, and not least those who work in the Norwegian health care system. The bourgeois parties promoted over 40 proposals as a real alternative to the reform in its time – proposals that were marked by disagreement when it came to government proposals on the financing model. It was a desire for a reform on the premises of the municipalities, a reform built from below and up, and not from above and down. It was not least a desire for a reform that had a realistic timetable. I dare remember that 50 pst. by Norwegian municipalities, they will not be able to implement well enough from 1 January 2012. We also wanted a reform that took into account the need to build competence in Norwegian municipalities in order to make a real offer, the offer that patients deserve. In our view, if you want to get a comprehensive health care system, it is a prerequisite that the overall financial responsibility is laid at one level of administration. That is why we believe that financial responsibility for the health and care sector must be added to the level of government administration, as we have already done in other areas, for example. for the unemployed or for our pensioners, thus ensuring an equivalent patient offer throughout the country and thus also a more efficient and appropriate use of resources. It is in this context that we need to see our position on cutting regional health businesses, which have evolved into very costly and bureaucratic institutions. It is a paradox that while the treatment queues are growing, there are now more staff working on non-patient tasks than there are doctors in Norwegian hospitals. We therefore believe that regional health companies should be replaced by a state hospital directorate, so that both responsibility and planning become a state matter. The party looks with great concern at the level of waiting lists and waiting times both within ordinary specialist health services and not least in the rehabilitation and care services. We believe it is unsustainable that a place between 270,000 and 280 000 people should be in line in Health-Norway, as it was at the end of 2010. This is particularly worrying all the time when there is a lot of available capacity in public health. There is also free capacity in the private health system that is not used for ideological reasons. We refer to our proposal which proposes a number of measures to strengthen and improve the health sector in 2012. There, the Progress Party proposes to strengthen patient treatment for 2012 by about 2.5 billion. kr. As an important part of this, the Progress Party proposes to equalise private and public providers, which means that the overall capacity of the healthcare system will be better exploited. We also propose to grant 800 million. NOK for the purchase of treatment capacity in private hospitals. These measures will lead to shorter waiting lists and reduced waiting times. In order to ensure increased patient treatment and effectiveness, our proposal also increases the input-based funding, ISF, from 40 pst. to 50 pst. This is a consequence of a consensus between the Progress Party and the Right in the context of the Cooperation Reform. On that occasion I dare remember that during the Bondevik II administration the waiting times went down, among others. as a result of the agreement with the Progress Party resulting in a higher ISF share. So politics worked. In the proposals of the Progress Party, it is set at 600 million. kr for the purchase of medical and technical equipment, which would not only contribute to more modern equipment in hospitals, but also contribute to increased patient treatment and a better patient offer. Overall, in our view, this will result in a decrease in waiting lists of as many as 25,000 patients in addition to the estimates in the government's proposal. Under the red-green government we have seen a reduction in the number of rehabilitation sites, and the degradation is carried out in several places in the country. This is in stark contrast to the government's stated aims of focusing on prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The proposals of the Progress Party earmark 300 million. kr for the purchase of rehabilitation facilities, so that the capacity of both public and private institutions — not least non-profit institutions — can be used, and that the need for these services is met to a much greater extent than is currently being done. In addition, the significant investment in hospitals’ finances will ensure that funds are released for increased investment in rehabilitation in the ordinary budgets. Thus, we believe that rehabilitation is very socio-economically profitable, while increasing the quality of life of individuals. The party of progress is also of the opinion that the government is breaking its promises when it is also proposed this year to increase self-interest. Increased excesses mainly affect those who do not have large financial resources and actually contribute to increasing differences in Norway. Therefore, in its proposal, the Procedural Party reduces the self-interest participation rate 1 to NOK 1880. So this is going to reverse the increase that the government is proposing. In addition to this, we are deeply concerned about the government's proposal to remove the tax deduction scheme, which currently exists, for excessive disease costs. In our view, the best way to shield the chroniclers from major disease costs is to reintroduce the template deduction. The Progress Party therefore proposes to reintroduce this from 2013 and reverses the government’s proposals for tightening up from 2012. We can in no way see that when we have a system that works for most, but a few cannot use, then the solution is – for the government – to remove it for everyone instead of incorporating those who fell out of the system. It seems more important to this government that everyone has a bad offer than most people have a good offer – understand who can. The Progress Party is of the opinion that there is a need to strengthen medical research in Norway. In our proposal, there is an increased effort on health care research and development. We clarify that diabetes, dementia, cancer, ADHD and stem cell research are priority tasks for the Advancement Party. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that Norway has a lot to learn from other nations when it comes to what we in Norway define as ‘experimental’ treatment. In our view, there is a clear need to open up more tried-and-tested healthcare for patients who do not benefit from regular treatment. In my post, I have not covered areas such as elderly care, municipal health services, the drug field and psychiatry. It is not because we do not think it is important – rather on the contrary – but the fields will be mentioned by other representatives of the Progress Party. I will also be allowed to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter, and I consider them to be the ones that have been referred to – in addition to the proposals that have been put forward today on cancer prevention, which are in the seats of the representatives, if not done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e359	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e365	The progress party always has much more money to spend on most than most. The party reports that there is an even greater need for private health services and commercial operators. In fact, the Progress Party will equal public and private providers. The major commercial health actors are – as we know – the international group with the address tax havens, and for them, the overall objective is to get the maximum return on each invested krone. This again means that the commercial providers will first and foremost establish themselves in medical areas where they can make money, and in the most popular parts of the country. My question is: when you want to transfer so much resources from public to private, commercially justified healthcare, and to give commercial actors the freedom of establishment, how is the Progress Party supposed to prevent a furrowing of health services to the population in – let's say – the more unprofitable parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e372	Let me first stress that the Advance Party prioritises the health service, and in our alternative budget, we do so within the framework of the rules of action. But the Progress Party is very clear that there is health and care, not least care for the elderly, which is a priority task for the party, and I am actually very proud of that. So when we add more money to both the public health system and the private and commercial health system, it's the way to treat more patients in Norway, and not less. This means that the offer is getting better and not worse. I am not as concerned about international actors as the Knutsen representative is. I also register that, among other things, the Norwegian State is a major owner of several of these actors, and it is more important for the Progress Party that patients be treated than who actually owns the company treating the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e381	The Progress Party proposes, not unexpectedly, in its alternative budget, to increase the share of the price in the 40-50 pst budget. In other budgets, they have also proposed introducing unit prices into the care of the elderly. The experience we have had with higher unit prices, 50-60 p.m., in the decade we've been behind us, has been that the budgets have been out of control – large deficits, billions of deficits, which in turn have resulted in cuts in hospital budgets. We also have experience that this has resulted in a rotation of patient treatment. Large patient groups such as chroniclers, drug users and psychiatric patients have become losers for the benefit of more profitable patient groups. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have also seen examples of the fact that unit prices have stimulated fraud in the budgets of some hospitals, by over-priced in relation to the state, i.e. a number of unfortunate consequences, while increased basic funding has produced only positive results. My question to the Progress Party: Have they learned nothing from the unfortunate aspects of price financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e388	As I also said in my post, we have actually learned a lot. If the representative Hansen had come along, he would have known that the patient treatment increased and the queues went down under the Bondevik II government, where one had a higher price share, the ISF share. If the representative had read several of the comments, he would have seen that the Progress Party has pointed out exactly the problems that are in today's health, with fault coding, deliberately miscoding, little flexible DRG codes, etc., so we're actually taking this very seriously. But for the Progress Party, the most important thing is that patients are treated, that the queues go down, and that people come back to work. I record that SV is more concerned that we are going to spend less money on health care. The Progress Party strongly disagrees with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e395	I record that the Progress Party is busy with health cows, but not so busy with preventing health cows. This is particularly evident in alcohol policy. As a single batch, the Progress Party disagrees with the Committee's comment that the main lines of the alcohol policy should be firm, with a focus on limiting access and consumption. Nor do they support the observation that Norwegian advertising bans are appropriate, by demonstrating that the context is not scientifically documented. My question to the Progress Party is: Is the Progress Party that there is scientific evidence that donating 24 hours a day, reduced prices, wine in stores and the introduction of alcohol advertising are good tools in the drug prevention work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e402	Here I record that the representative Toppe takes a couple of inner swings and refers to the fact that one of our comments applies to something other than what it does. So our observation that this isn't scientifically proven applies to the SIRUS report, which claims that there's less trouble in the city by shutting down the tipping points earlier. There even one of the researchers admitted that this is not a scientific report, and that there are many other things that also affect what is happening in the city, for example. the extent to which the use of resources by the police is likely to have such an impact. The lot of progress is of the opinion that a legal product such as alcohol must and may be available. We're involved in prevention. In fact, we have made a proposal in this Chamber with more than 20 points on prevention, such as: The party representing Toppe could not be found to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e409	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e412	I am happy to note that within a relatively tight state budget, the health budget is increasing by 2 billion. kr. The total budget now amounts to approx. 140 B.C.E. kr. So it's going to be 1.4 billion. kr more for hospital treatment, over 1 pst. growth in patient treatment, 6.5 pst. growth in outpatient provision, 120 million. SEK to 1500 happy days care places, 150 million. SEK to the day offer to demente – 500 more are offered. In addition, actions related to the follow-up to the Interaction Reform will be increased by 150 million. kr. The broad line of the year’s health budget follows the policy priorities of the previous budget and the priorities of the national health plan — early intervention and more money for prevention. The Norwegian health system has a high standard. A recent OECD report confirms this. Norway is among the OECD countries with the best results in the survival of myocardial infarction, stroke, breast cancer, cervical cancer and several other cancers. Norway is also at the top of the world in terms of care and care for the elderly. It may not be an image that fits into the opposition’s description of the Norwegian health service. But there is every reason to stress that this has been achieved only because in Norway we have based the development of our health care system on expanding it throughout the country, that there should be equivalent offers regardless of the place of residence and the size of the moneybook, and in addition that the Norwegian health system is publicly owned, based on Community principles. The alternative – a privatized, commercialised healthcare system, as proposed by the right-hand side – had not given us these results, it would have given us increased differences. It's not that we're the best at everything, nor that this OECD report is going to make us think that there's no shortage of health services. Norway is not the best in the world for short waiting times. Norway, Canada and Sweden did not come out well in terms of waiting times in this report I referred to – both in relation to specialists, in relation to elective surgery and in relation to waiting time at primary doctors. We have also had many examples of this in the media in recent times – people who have been waiting for cancer treatment. It is therefore important that the Minister of Health has given a strong boost to the reduction of waiting times, especially for priority treatment – cancer patients – in the health business order documents and regular reporting requirements. Patient progression, reduced waiting time from fixed doctors, diagnosis to treatment in hospitals is also systematically addressed. These challenges have not been solved overnight, but the objectives of cancer treatment must be met. I am also pleased that the total waiting time has fallen from 2010 to 2011. We're on the right track. We also have major challenges in relation to social health differences. The reasons lie in basic factors such as economics, growing-up conditions, lack of education, unemployment and housing. There is basically no good explanation as to why there should be greater health differences in Norway than in our neighbouring countries. The recently adopted Public Health Act is, in my view, one of the most important measures against social health inequalities. The follow-up to the law, with concrete measures in all the municipalities of the country, across all sectors, will be crucial if we are to be able to reduce social health inequalities over time. It's set at 144 million. kr for public health in 2012 on the health budget. It shall be additional to that granted in the budgets of other departments and in the municipalities and counties. In 2012, the Health Minister will be given a primary responsibility to coordinate the national follow-up to the Public Health Act, drawing up a national public health strategy. There will be a very important work that needs to be given the highest priority. The inter-operational reform will be introduced in 2012. It will require both competence and organisation in the municipal sector. Municipalities are charged for ready-to-print patients from day one. They've also been financially compensated for that. A co-financing mechanism is established for the treatment of patients in hospitals. There was a system that SV initially was skeptical of, we doubted the effect. Now this arrangement is significantly moderated in relation to the original proposal. We hope it will give the effect that is the goal. There is reason to stress that both the State and the municipalities must jointly contribute to the success of the cooperation reform. We can't afford anything else. Problems that may arise must be resolved jointly, the population should be ensured a better provision of health and care in all municipalities of the country through the introduction of the new reform. An follow-up evaluation shall also be carried out. The local authorities must have the necessary time. Everything cannot be in place on 1 January. Psychiatric problems are estimated to be the main cause of 700,000 Nordics being out of work. Psychiatric disorders are estimated to cost the Norwegian community approximately. 70 B.C.E. kr per year in treatment and care measures. Several studies suggest that people with mental disorders are those who have the weakest offer in the municipalities and the worst living conditions. After the psychiatry plan was completed in 2010, and the earmarked money was phased into the ordinary budgets of the municipalities and the state, it is positive to note that in 84 pst. municipalities report that appropriations for mental health have continued and in some municipalities have also increased. At the same time, it's worrying to read that in 16 pst. the municipalities are notified of budget cuts. There is every reason to follow this development. What will it look like in the local government sector after the 2012 budgets have been covered? Is the proportion of municipalities cutting in psychiatry increasing or decreasing? It must be carefully followed up. The contingency plan implemented in mental health shall be followed up and the offer strengthened in the coming years. That is the intention of the Cooperation Reform. There is a great need for that. The Committee has also stressed in its budgetary position the importance of recruiting more psychologists for the community health service. Experience shows that when access to psychologists is good, when they cooperate with the other community health services, the results are good for people with somatic and mental disorders. Therefore, good economic instruments need to be established to strengthen the recruitment of psychologists to the community health service. The budget also provides a detailed description of the follow-up to the terrorist action on 22 July. It is very important that all those affected by the terrorist action on the Utøya and in the government quarter receive the follow-up necessary in both the short and long term. It's about those who were directly hit, and it's about the relatives. The national support group after the 22nd of July has made good progress, and it is important that in the future there will be close cooperation between this support group and others who will take care of those from the Utaya and the Government Quartet, in the follow-up work. Today, too many people with drug problems do not get the help they need. It has been mentioned previously: 4000 waiting for treatment. Russ is socially skeptical, and rubrics have both the highest morbidity and the highest mortality. There are about 250 people who die of overdose every year – more than those who die in traffic. But when was the last time it was a headline on overdose deaths? Drug users are among the losers of society. One of the problems with current drug treatment is the large gaps between treatment levels and the lack of interaction between different settings. Through the Interaction Reform, we are working to ensure a comprehensive, seamless treatment chain through changes in both funding systems and legislation. Dependants need to be guaranteed a range of treatment options, including increased bets on drug-free treatments. I am pleased that the drug treatment framework has increased by 100 million. kr, but the SV considers that there is a need for an obligatory escalation plan, in the same way as that implemented for mental health protection. In this way, we can work on a systematic escalation in all areas of concern, from prevention to rehabilitation, after protection, harm reduction and research. The government has announced its own news of drug policy. This crash message will be very important. The value of our society is measured by how we treat our most vulnerable. For most people it costs a lot to go to the dentist if treatment is required of a certain extent. We have recently described this in examples, for example: The evening post. Statistical centre has looked at the use of dental services. The Agency's findings are as you can expect: the richest with the largest books of money and those with the highest education that goes to the dentist. It's a historical remarkable thing that dental health is not included in the normal health system. That is why I completely disagree with those who warn that the time for major welfare reforms is over, that our welfare state is at the top of history. We need to get a new dental report that ensures a roof over the dental treatment. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have received a health budget with growth in a tight budget, which gives more money for patient treatment in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e456	On 1 December we could read on SV's websites and in Avisa Nordland that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen requires psychiatric ambulances everywhere. Since SV voted against the proposal of the Progress Party for not so long, I was somewhat surprised, and especially because SV in this setting did not make proposals in line with his requirement. The Progress Party has therefore met SV by today proposing psychiatrybulances across the country, in line with the representative’s demands. Does the representative's claim on 1 December mean that this is a real promise, or is it such that SV and Geir-Ketil Hansen will again vote against, and once again show that this is just talk and not real action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e464	Now SV doesn't have control with the headlines of what's in Avisa Nordland, but if you've read the text, it says that we're satisfied that we've got the committee that there should be psychiatry competence on all the ambulances, and that mentally ill people should have an offer that is equivalent to what they have with somatic disorders, including in the emergency services. I am very pleased and pleased that we have a unanimous committee to agree that there should be psychiatry competence. Appropriate mental health ambulances are not possible across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e471	The strong growth in private health insurance in recent years is the result of increasing health cows and long waiting periods for treatment. In fact, many people have to wait months and years. Nearly 300,000 Nordics now have health insurance, and it's increased by 23 pst. only in the last year. A combination of long public queues and waiting times, private availability and the frustration experienced by many patients in an uncertain disease phase mean that many now pay out of their own pocket for faster studies and treatment in private. The government's fight against private offers means that we now see the contours of a real privatisation and a class-based healthcare system, where they can buy quick help with money on suspicion of illness, while others have to put themselves in a public queue. It's a development Right is strongly opposed. What does the SV representative think about their allergy to private services actually contribute to the real privatisation of many health services and to a classed healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e482	The best guarantee against a classed society is that we have a well-developed public health system. That is what has been Norwegian policy, which I also perceive that the Right has essentially agreed. The development and construction of the private at the expense of the public sector will weaken public health and thus create increased disparities. That's why SV is for what we've also got through, and I'm glad that we get in this budget: more money for patient treatment in the public health system and that it's focused on bringing down the queues. The waiting time has fallen from 2010 to 2011. It's the only way to go to secure us against a classy society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e489	The representative was concerned about intoxication in his post, and I think that's very good. We all know that the relationship between alcohol use and violence is very obvious, and it is also documented to a large extent. There is a report that has come from Sirus, where it is suggested that one hour at a night should be reduced. In the position of the Health and Welfare Committee, the Government Parties say that they ‘convene the follow-up of this report to the Government’. I'm wondering what that really means. Does this mean that the government parties in Stortinget actually want the government to go for a reduced turnout? If so, why not say it a little clearer? What is meant by meeting the government's follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e498	There's a debate about this in the government parties, just as it would if the opposition had been with the government. There are several interests and considerations to be taken into account. The meaning of the undersigned – and I also believe that it is SV’s position – is that the right way to go is to reduce opening hours. Reduced availability reduces alcohol use and, in this context, reduces violence. That is why I fully agree with the questioner – that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e503	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e506	We who live in Norway are privileged. We have a well-developed health care system. Many offers that we could only have expected for a generation today are considered self-evident. We have highly competent health workers both in municipalities and in hospitals. Nordics also have relatively good health. We live a long time, and health is a world class. Nevertheless, many people feel that resources are not stretching. The provision of care and care in municipalities continues to be criticised, even though we compare with other countries is quite upper class when it comes to both human resources and institution building. New supply and improvements are still required in the specialist service. In one of the richest countries in the world, there may be nothing else to expect. We're going to have great expectations for our health supply, and we're going to demand we're on the front line. I think, however, that in time we need to take a much more thorough priority debate in the health field. So far, the debate has been marked by the fact that health resources seem to have no end. Medical developments are fast, and it is no longer the technique that is decisive – perhaps the ethics. Then we have to take the debate on what the public should take responsibility for. We need to decide whether new health provision is the right priority for other public tasks, and whether it will lead society and public health in the future. The 2012 State Budget, with the introduction of the Interaction Reform, marks an important transformation of the healthcare system in Norway. In recent years, there has been an imbalance between the state and municipal health services that have not been the best for patients. The health budget, education, research, organisation and funding of the health sector are the hallmarks of specialists. The high-level professional community has had a high level of performance, while the basic broadest competence, which takes care of most patients, and which prevents disease development, has become less valuable. Preventive work has simply been down-prioritized. Furthermore, the imbalance in the state and municipal health services has in reality encouraged over-exploitation of specialist health services. More people claim that this is precisely why we today have health cows in Norway. The health work carried out in the municipalities must therefore be strengthened. The dedicated and medical services have an important porting function against the specialist services. In the last few years, however, new medical work has mainly been provided by the specialist services. Now it's the municipal health service's turn. Interaction reforming its intention is precisely to strengthen the community health service. In order to build up under this change, two new laws and a reorganization of funding have been introduced since the New Year. For the first time, the financial arrangements are limited to somatic patients, and that means that municipalities are given financial responsibility for ready-to-write patients and co-financing responsibility for hospitalisation. The aim is to make it profitable for municipalities to build up their own facilities, which should be an alternative to patients before entry, instead of entry, or after entry into hospitals, if patients there receive an equal or better supply than in hospitals. In particular, there is good experience in creating supplies that accept patients who are being discharged from hospitals. Municipalities will also be responsible for creating day-to-day places for first aid in a few years. These can very much be located in the local medical centre. The aim of the interaction reform is to promote prevention of health work and those patient groups that have been vulnerable in today’s system. It's about drug users, patients with mental disorders, the elderly and those with chronic diseases. The overarching objective of the red-green health policy is to channel health money so that they do not create more social health differences, but provide the most help to those groups that need it the most. There are reports that indicate that the opposite occurs, e.g. to spend the most time and resources on patients with the highest education and income, that free choice of hospitals is a system of resource strengths and the youngest. Therefore, patient law and free hospital choice must never become a goal in themselves. The focus on justice and complaints has never highlighted the least resource-intensive groups in society, but has favored the others. So the market thinking in the health care community, which is special for the Progress Party and the Right, has its clear backsides and must not be passed on. In the past year, it has been a major focus on patient safety. Although we have a strong and well-developed health service, there are alarmingly many faults and are missing. It happens in the municipalities, and it happens in hospitals – both large and small. We often fail in the pure banal. It's about mismedication, it's about hospital infections, and it's about bad communication. I register that the government has taken care of this. New measures have been taken, including: a national assessment of the extent of the patient injury has been launched and the patient safety campaign ‘In safe hands’ started last year. I am very pleased that the government is seriously investing in better patient treatment and prevention of patient injuries in the Norwegian health care system. One asserts that quality work and patient safety are a responsibility for management. The health supply is measured on a quality basis. Quality work should be given equal focus in municipalities and health authorities as has the financial management. In order to create good patient safety, it is very important that the health care system cultivates a culture of learning and is open about what is happening. It's also a message of quality and patient safety, and I'm looking for one there to talk about patient safety work widely. A new public health law will be introduced in 2012. The law is based on five basic principles: health in all we do the principle, the precautionary principle, the principle of sustainable development, the principle of equalisation and the principle of participation. In this way, helselova will provide us with a new foundation for systematic public health work in Norway and a better basis for coordination between departments and across sectors. Responsibility for public health work is added to municipalities and not just to health services. The Ministry shall draw up an implementation plan for the laws covering economic instruments and measures in order to develop a better knowledge base for public health work. I take this up because I think helselova is a milestone in public health work in Norway and a central part of the health effort to the red-green government. 2012 is the starting year for the long-term reconversion of health policy: we need to prevent more from repairing less. It will in the long run provide better lives with less disease and health problems for very many. We have to get more people to stop smoking. Then society gets a win of two to three billion. kr per year for each percent that the smoker part drops. Sweden is 5 percent below us. We need to reduce the incidence of lifestyle diseases caused by increased physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and drug abuse. We are sure that we are on the right track when we give the municipalities a responsibility to provide help to those who lack knowledge and who need help to change their habits. We want regulars to print more fresh-life prescriptions instead of medical prescriptions, and that there will be more good, local fresh-life provision. We are impatient to be able to carry out the many good contributions from the state that are well-delivered: increasing the path of walking and cycling, limiting private cars in cities, and making healthy food cheaper and unhealthy more expensive. "Politics is nothing but medicine in general." said the founder of social medicine Rudolf Virchow 150 years ago. By doing so, he said that politics is to divide living conditions and values — and thus health expenditure — between groups in society. Thus, the main health effort does not take place in the health budget. When, through the state budget, we otherwise contribute to the distribution of living conditions, such as income, work, education, housing, food and the environment, we also allocate framework conditions for health. So public health is closely related to how society is organized. A society with the least possible differences provides better health for its population. Social security is one of the most fundamental provisions for good health and equal distribution of health. Today we are going to debate the health budget, and the position and opposition may disagree on many issues. But what is the most fundamental is the part of health policy that I call now at the end – there is the red-green government most superior and, in my view, the whole sovereign in relation to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e547	Government lots will reduce the use of sugar and salt. In the past, fat was also on this list, but since the Senterpartiet has made sure that Tine is a market regulator, the butter has disappeared from both the list and the shops. Now there are numerous crystalline ion compounds that can be referred to as salt. If sodium chloride is considered to be, salt with lower sodium content is acceptable and the salt is separated from the sea salt, among others. with regard to iodine content? When we talk about sugar, is that C6H12O6 or C12H22O11? We know that normal sugars consist of some fructose and some glucose that splits in the stomach, and that insulin and leptin react differently to fruit sugars than to other carbohydrates. Fruit sugar is known to be a lipogenous substance contained in fruit, berries and vegetables. It increases the production of fats. What are the government parties really going to reduce, and how will they do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e575	The President shall see if the representative is in a position to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e578	I record that someone has better time to prepare their lines than others! It was a very detailed question of various chemical compounds, but basically our point is that the diet of the population is too unhealthy, and we have to organize so that it becomes more healthy. It's really that simple. We can do that with economic instruments such as sugar levies, and we can do so with other measures. – Then I'll go home and read the different chemical formulations for the next row!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e588	Representatives from government parties have traveled around the country for a long time to tell us that the Interaction Reform will provide a better health care system. Efforts at habilitation and rehabilitation have been the main slogans, as the representative Toppe was in the house today. The reform is introduced from the new year, and at the same time, rehabilitation services in health establishments are cut – without a similar offer in place. At Mork Rehabilitation Centre in Volda, known by the representative Toppe, the degradation is now under way, and it is to be phased out over a few – despite good results and happy patients. How can the representative Toppe and the Central Party defend the degradation of the rehabilitation services in the districts all the time the stated objective is to build up the rehabilitation service?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e597	It is quite true, as the representative says, that it is an objective of the Cooperation Reform that a better provision of rehabilitation should be made. It is also a goal to get more rehabilitation in the municipalities. I've seen a lot of good examples of that, and we need to get more of that. Then there's also a paradox that the Center Party is being put to the wall for something that's health professionals' practice. The right was on the decision where we let the management of the specialist services take place in a business model. I just want to say that we should not accept that supply is built up without being built up accordingly, either in the municipalities or in other places in the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e604	The Association of Psychologists has said that mental health has been put on hold, and they refer to the Reform of Interaction. In addition, 16 pst. by our municipalities, they are planning to reduce the supply of mental health to the next year because of economic conditions. My question to the representative is whether this is a concern, and what can be done by the government and the government to prevent such an incredibly negative development, which will particularly affect children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e611	If you look at numbers in the last five to ten years, there are few areas in health care that have grown as much as in psychiatry, and that is a wild development, and we are pleased about that. So it's been embedded in the frame, and we're following that development very closely. They are also in the government's own text, these talking representative Davøy just showed that 16 pst. by the municipalities that they will cut in the offer, and 84 pst. says they will increase or pass on it. It is clear that we are – I am honest about it – concerned about it, and this development we must follow very closely in the months and the year to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e621	The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party has a profile that focuses in particular on children and the elderly, while the budget has a social profile that builds up the idea of giving more to those who need it the most. The Christian People's Party believes that older people must be guaranteed the right to worthy care. It means a nursing home place when you need it, the possibility of activity, the possibility of getting out and right to relief at the end of life, to mention something. The need for a person’s hospitalisation shall be decisive, not how much money the municipality in which he or she lives has currently available. This is a crucial point in the agreement on a guarantee of dignity and an elderly care that the Christian People's Party entered into with the government parties and the Left in 2007. The government does not follow up the guarantee well enough, as I see it. There is a need for a vigilance in the care of the elderly. There is a need to take the problems and challenges seriously. The municipalities tell us about a great need for more money just to get away from the demographic costs. Health workers tell of a need for more employees only to cover all the guards, and to do what they think is necessary. The older people tell us about the need for nursing homes, so that more people can get a place, which should have been a statutory right. The Christian People's Party has proposed, in its alternative budget, to increase the allocation to the municipalities by nearly 1 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. This should improve the current situation and allow municipalities both to build new hospitals, to increase the number of prevention measures and to ensure a good service provision for the whole population. The Christian People's Party is the party that has room for those who need help for a lot. The system of user-led personal assistance is too crucial for independence and independence. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government is still struggling to submit a proposal on individual rights to user-led personal assistance, BPA – a right Christian People's Party believes that children who need it should have from birth onwards. This will help to increase family freedom of choice, proximity and more association, including: because they can choose to have assistance at home, so that the child can also live at home if the family prefers it, if BPA they want. People with disabilities, like everyone else, must live the way they want. Quality of life and mastering in everyday life must be the goal, and BPA is one of the means to achieve it. That is why the Christian People's Party is proposing an increase of 150 million. NOK to improve the offer of BPA in our alternative budget. We believe that the right to BPA is also to put human dignity in the centre. The Christian People's Party is also the party that has room for those who are mentally ill. Around one sixth of the adult population always suffers from mental illness or/and a drug problem. At any time it is estimated that approx. 15-20 pst., i.e. one in five children between 3 and 18 years of age have impaired function due to symptoms of mental illness. Then it is very serious that municipal mental health services are weakened, especially among children and young people, when we see several studies at the same time that indicate that people with severe mental disorders are those who have the weakest supply in the municipalities and the worst living conditions. I mentioned in my question that as many as 16 pst. By the municipalities they say they will further reduce the supply. This must not happen. School health services and health centres for young people are important venues for the prevention of health problems in children and young people, particularly mental disorders. Since the designation disappeared, and the school health allowance was largely deprived of the framework transfer to the municipality and county, the school health service has had an uncertain future. Schools with hundreds of students cannot offer more than a few minutes of health care. Young people who need one to talk to Monday morning, meet a closed door with notice to come back Friday after lunch. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the school health service by 50 million. kr. The Christian People's Party is also a party that wants to make life easier for them with a drug problem. It is essential that more drug addicts receive treatment more quickly. Thousands are in line, while ideal drug institutions have free capacity. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes 75 million in its alternative budget. DKK for drug treatment in institutions that have not been agreed with regional health establishments, and SEK 10 million. to prevent drug use voluntarily. Alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing, while developments are moving in the opposite direction in several countries in Europe. We know that alcohol is the drug that causes most social and health damage, and is the second most important risk factor for disease and early death. In addition, research shows that between 60 and 80 pst. of the cases of violence in Norway are related to alcohol. In a study conducted by Sirus, almost 1.5 million adults of the North say that they have been plagued by other people’s alcohol use in the last year. Other studies show that 300,000 women are afraid every year of full people in public places and that as many as 47,000 women are physically injured every year by people who are affected by alcohol. SIRUS operates with about 70,000 injuries and accidents related to alcohol use. This alone should be reasonable enough to regulate alcohol sales in Norway to a lesser extent. We also know that reduced turnout time reduces violence, and that reduced turnout time is wanted, among other things. by – yes also by SV and by the Christian People’s Party – the police, the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Ambulance Staff, the Medical Service, the Nighties and a number of other actors who face the problem of violence every weekend. My question is, what are we waiting for? The interaction reform is a very important reform and can be described as a reversal of the health provision in Norway, where more of the responsibility and more tasks are transferred from the regional health enterprises to the municipality. I agree with this. But now, just a few weeks before the reform is to be implemented, a number of questions remain unanswered. Several municipalities still wonder what is contained in terms of ‘immediate help’, ‘ready-to-print patients’ and ‘public health responsibility’, and the economy is uncertain in several places. In order to meet the new tasks of municipalities in a few weeks' time, they need to have both facilities and competence. Even today, many municipalities have to make economic considerations heavier than the quality and professional standard of services. This is because of a pressured local economy, they say. How many municipalities are really clear when the reform takes effect in less than four weeks? And what happens to those municipalities that are not ready? It is said that the reform will be implemented a little after a while, but the financial instruments will start as early as 1 January 2012. There is no prudent implementation there, except for immediate assistance, which is to be phased in over time. Finally, a little about the situation in Health South-East, and in particular the situation at Oslo University Hospital. In the last few months, we have seen patients, employees, trustees and supervisors who are concerned about patient safety at Oslo University Hospital in the context of the big shift that is taking place. On Sunday the Health Ombudsman also reported his concern, and yesterday there were demonstrations outside the Stortinget. Everyone agrees on one thing: the merger must not be a performance project that literally ‘on death and life’ must be carried out at express speed. Studies show that seven out of ten employees do not believe that Oslo University Hospitals are able to achieve the ambitions underlying the merger. Neither are the ICT systems talking. In addition, staffing and large cuts come in the budgets. Children and young people are in great pain much longer than necessary, and a number of patients are not treated within the deadlines. The interaction reform will also come to Oslo University Hospital on 1 January 2012. Together with the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party has proposed some measures, and I'll just mention two. One is local management. Leaders operating at a distance don't want to be clear enough. This could lead to a lack of efficiency, a lack of governance of the economy and a lack of involvement of employees in ongoing processes. We think that's what's happening, unfortunately, at Oslo University Hospital. The second proposal focuses on ICT. When ICT systems fail, they can have serious consequences for patients. The opposition parties want a massive investment in ICT throughout Health Norway. Good computer systems help good doctors to provide good treatment, which in turn contributes to increased safety and well-being. And that's what the bottom line is: security and well-being through knowledge and care. Good people who do good to others are the whole health system is built on. That's what politicians have to build up under. I hope that the good suggestions made by the opposition can be assessed by the government parties. It's terribly difficult as the opposition party to make good suggestions. By and large, you say no. But that's good, and it's for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e666	I will take up the thread from a previous line, from the representative of Davøy to the undersigned, on the SIRUS report, on violence and on the prevention of violence, among others. I remind the representative, Mr Davøy, that the municipality of Oslo can introduce the proposed measures in the SIRUS report tomorrow if they so wish. The Christian People's Party is part of the City Council in the Municipality of Oslo, so I would like to have a comment on exactly that issue with regard to the signals coming from the Right and the Advance Party on the Russian Policy and the closing hours. I would like to ask the representative, Mrs. Davøy, how she sees that the Christian People's Party is going to have an impact on its policy in broad civil cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e675	Now I have the experience of sitting in government with the Right and the Left, and I think we have a very good alcohol policy. I have no experience with the Advance Party. I understand the question, and I understand that SV thinks it is very difficult to sit in government and have a different policy than the largest party might have. As far as Oslo is concerned, I sincerely hope that Oslo too will be able to carry out a reduced turnout time. The reason we want it to be done by the government team is that then all the municipalities will have to deal with it. We then give a very strong national signal from this assembly that we are actually taking seriously the violence that comes from alcohol use, and night-time in the big cities this is a huge problem. That's my answer. I just want happiness and hope that SV is strongly attached to this in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e682	The Christian People's Party has worked with the Right and the Advance Party in a number of areas of the Health and Welfare budget for 2012. The Christian People's Party has also announced that it will go to government with the Advance Party and the Right after the 2013 elections, if the election results so warrant. I guess it's like not getting the one you love, you have to love the one you get in this community. Do we now want to see a Christian People's Party that, like the right parties, is more concerned with privatising and commercialising Norwegian health care, so that those with a good economy and good access to private health services can buy good health services at the expense of an equivalent health service across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e689	The answer is simply no. When it comes to cooperation after the 2013 elections, it sounds like the representative knows more about this than I know what I'm standing here. This is to be discussed in our party. Then you come back to it after the 2013 elections – or maybe before, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e695	First, I want to start by pinking the Christian People's Party because they propose in their budget a conversion of the VAT system. They propose to increase VAT on sugary drinks and showers, which should be used to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables. We have something similar in the Center Party in our program. So I see that the Christian People's Party is going in at the same time to take away the free arrangement of fruit for youth schools and combined schools. My question is on this priority. The Christian People's Party has been with us in previous budgets and problematized a subscription scheme, because it seems to be able to lead to an increase in social health differences. The question is how to enter in order to apply a subscription scheme to all schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e702	This is a decision made by the Christian People's Party in connection with the budget. We no longer want to continue the free system, and we have justified why in the budget position. With regard to the subscription scheme, the reason has been that we don't want to remove the possibility, for fruit and green is actually important. But we want to do this in a different way, by reducing VAT. The hope is that most people will get better money to buy fruit and green than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e709	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e712	The left is not represented in the Health and Welfare Committee. I hope it's temporary. We have therefore not had the opportunity to promote the position of the left in the setting we are currently processing. As with the previous consideration of the budget of other committees, the Left has chosen not to promote changes in appropriations under individual items according to our priorities in the Chamber today. We therefore vote in favour of the government's draft budget as a consequence of our proposal for an alternative budget under the framework area 15 falling in the context of Storting's consideration of the financial situation. The health sector is doing a fantastic job every single day across the board, but it is unfortunately our job as politicians to give priority to the health sector as well. I want to use my speaking time to bring forward two of the Left's priorities in the Health and Welfare Budget. It's the health care and the care. One is about effective prevention, the other is about one of the weakest groups in Norway. First, I would like to say a little bit about what changes are going to take effect from the New Year, what the Left Cuts in, and why, in our budget. In June, the Stortinget dealt with the follow-up to the Reform of Cooperation. The intentions of the reform are good, and the challenges it faces are great. That is why we in the Left are concerned about the implementation of the reform. However, the Left believes that the changes that will come into force from 1 January 2012 give rise to uncertainty. An important part of the Interaction Reform is a transfer of health tasks to municipalities and a better focus on prevention and treatment measures early in the course of the disease. If we are to have strengthened institutions in the municipalities and strengthen primary health services, the municipalities must be able to do so. We do not believe that has happened. The left has faith that larger municipalities can provide better health and care services, but we fear that the reform will fail if small municipalities, low-skilled municipalities, are assigned tasks they are unable to take over. We can then risk getting a worse health service than we do today. There may be questions about how the Left can defend unsocial cuts as increased prostrations and cuts in facilities for the disabled. The left proposes a targeted effort on those who need the help of society the most. For the Left, this is also about priorities and re-priorities. This requires repriorities from those of us who are both largely healthy and have a good economy, to those who are ill and economically struggling. As part of such a redistribution, the Left proposes to increase equity participation I by NOK 200 for all, and by a further NOK 400 for all who have income above NOK 500000. Such an increase in self-interest would mean a total savings of 272 million. kr, which can be targeted at increasing efforts towards those who need the most Community assistance. In addition, the Left prioritises key social and health policies such as increased social assistance rates and care pay for parents with disabled children, and increased commitment to care and rehabilitation. We believe that increasing the fees for those who have the most of them is good social liberal policy. So those who earn the least will make a total of money on our budget, as we increase the social assistance rates and the care allowance for parents with disabled children. Then there has been earlier in this room raised criticism against the Left. It has been argued that we who are concerned with the care of the cattle, at the same time cutters in the taxes on wine. How can we do that? The left considers that a comprehensive drug policy ranging from prevention to follow-up and treatment is important. The aim of the prevention policy is to limit harmful use of drugs, to postpone diversions and to capture vulnerable groups and individuals at an early stage. Having said that, I don't think it's alcohol policy negative to increase the fees on spirits and lower them on wine. If it's as bad as some people want, the Left puts the fees on spirits and down on wine, those who object can help increase the fees. But I see that they don't either. With regard to national health records, the Left has on several occasions expressed concern and scepticism about the government’s uncritical commitment to increasingly comprehensive national health records. Digitisation of this information is necessary, but requires stricter procedures to preserve privacy. Now we see that it's not always as simple as that. Left wants these procedures to be put in place before the planned patient journal sharing network comes into place. Therefore, the Left proposes a reduction in the appropriations allocated to the national health register. The left has also proposed cutting in the cultural spaser stick. It is because we believe that it is up to the municipalities to decide whether we should have such an offer. It is the municipalities that are responsible for patients in hospitals, and it is those who are responsible for providing cultural services to the elderly. Left considers the cultural walking stick to be really pure symbol money. The left has also proposed a cut in pharmacy, and I would like to refer here to the National Audit Office's investigation into the regulation of the market for copy medicines. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that there is still a need for low-price incentives. Moreover, I would like to point out that negotiated discounts on the purchasing side today do not benefit patients, and the proportion of generic medicines in the Norwegian market is low compared to other Nordic countries. This should really be supported by the red-green parties. This is good social cohesion, and pharmacies are known to go very well. Then to the two priorities of the Left: health care and care. In its alternative budget, the Left has been committed to strengthening primary health services in a number of areas, including: through increased capacity and better provision of health sisters and health stations. Health sisters are important to many young people. A good health sister easily picks up problems that young people may have and can build up a trust relationship that is difficult to replace by others in the health sector. The health sisters also know the system well, and can easily refer a youth to the appropriate professional environment. However, in many places the health care service has a poor capacity, and that is a sin. For health care, not only is a good prevention service, it is also a socially cheap way to provide health advice and health care to young people. In health policy, the left will also give more priority to those who need it the most. Therefore, the Left has priority treatment for addicts. It's embarrassing that addicts are in line for emergency detoxification. By the first quarter of 2011, there are almost 4,000 queues. At the same time, non-profit drug institutions have free capacity. It is embarrassing that drug addicts do not have room for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment when detoxification is completed, and it is very embarrassing for Norway that over 2,000 people have died of overdose in the last ten years. Drug addicts need treatment, health care and rehabilitation. The goal must not only be restlessness, but also a worthwhile life for those who are unable to become restless. Therefore, proper treatment needs to be provided, including: increased use of medically assisted rehabilitation, and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment needs to be strengthened. The left therefore proposes an increased allocation to LAR and emergency detoxification with a total of 150 million. kr. Finally, I would like to raise the Left's proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and I would like to point out that the Left vote in favour of minority proposals No. 1, 3–14, 15, 18, 19 and 22 – plus the joint opposition proposals on cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e744	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e749	Municipal care services are warm hands and people, people who are going to have wages and pensions, and then the municipalities have to have money. But the left will cut the framework transfers to the municipalities with a total of 10 billion. kr and instead introduce a municipal corporation tax. In fact, funds are being transferred from tax-weak to tax-intensive municipalities, i.e. a centralized policy, a policy that cuts care services, and the political reality is that the left, which emerged as a counter-cultural movement locally, is now seeking a conservative peace in central Europe. So the question, how many hospital places will the Left go down in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e754	In principle, the Left believes that we should not put down any sick homes, but we must, of course, also give priority – policies are, in fact, priorities. The left has always been involved in bringing together municipalities in Norway, so that we get bigger, more powerful municipalities. We know that there are many small municipalities around Norway that are unable to offer citizens the health they need – all over the line. If we get bigger, more powerful municipalities, we will have better health services for the elderly – health care centres – and not least other types of services to be offered by the municipality. So I am not completely familiar with that representative who asks me about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e761	The left-hand side suggests cutting 18.4 million. kr in the scheme for fruit and vegetables in school. SV wants to go the opposite way. We want to expand this system and primarily get to a solution with school food for primary school students in particular. It has a good prevention effect, it will offset social health inequalities, and not least it will contribute to better education in school. So it's very important in a broad context. Why does the Left want to cut in this area – and to go with your back first into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e768	It's sad to see that SV's school now is about fruit and green. It's really sad. That's what you reduce all day school. We in the Left talk about better teachers, more teachers, and we talk about learning pressure and a good teaching offer. I am surprised that the government chooses to spend a lot of money on schemes that have no documented effect, but it may help to ease the pressure – when it really does not have a good school policy. I believe that this diet is something the schools should provide information about, and then you have to make it possible for students to have a good meal during the school day. So it's also a little bit up to the parents to make sure to give their children fruit and green. I think SV should now start focusing on school policy content, getting more and better teachers, so that we get a good learning pressure and a good teaching offer in Norwegian school, and ending with the excessive mass of fruit and vegetables in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e777	I hear that the Left is very skeptical about the health supply in the small municipalities. I wonder if the representative may have read studies on, for example: how the fixed reform works. It often works best in smaller municipalities, where it travels more to vulnerable groups of patients — the elderly and patients before drugs and psychiatry. When it comes to drug treatment in hospitals, small municipalities also cut well. When it comes to the Interaction Reform, it is the major municipalities that stand out as the worst in planning. So I have a reverse question: Is the Left satisfied with how the big city communities are proceeding to the Reform of Cooperation, and how they are able to cooperate with health professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e784	I'm actually a justice politician, a little surprised that Norway, the world's richest country, can't get more out of every penny we put into the health sector. That's kind of weird. At the same time, I know that many – I have friends and acquaintances who work in the health sector – are really on their daily lives. Now, the representative and I are asking questions, very far apart from each other in the question of community mergers – I mean, that's where the representative started. The left wants to have fewer municipalities in Norway, that we put them together, so that we get more out of every penny in each municipality, while the representative's party stands for maintaining the municipal structure as it is, although it's old-fashioned, it's bureaucratic, and that means that we have to spend a lot more money than what is necessary. I think if we get bigger municipalities, we'll be able to get better health services. If the cities are rusted in terms of the interaction reform – there is a lot to do here, I think the representative knows that, and it is not possible to respond in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e797	At the beginning of this decade, Europe is facing a serious financial crisis, and in some European countries one of the two young people is almost out of work. Economics, work and education have much to say about the health status of the individual and the health status of the population. We have social health differences, but compared to other countries, health differences are small — because differences in Norway are small. Continued cohesion is an important objective of government, and through a strong public common school, through reasonable kindergartens, and not least full childcare provision, we contribute to providing the basis for equal opportunities. The fact that people have a job to go to, a school, an income and a place to live is also crucial for good health. Therefore, Community solutions are also a foundation of this government's policy. Therefore, a responsible economic policy has not been deterred from health either. In recent years, the government has strengthened health budgets, we have ensured more people in health care services, and that more people are being treated in hospitals. At the same time, we have strengthened the work on patient safety and quality. We'll keep doing that. But that requires that we are still willing to make changes. The challenge picture is well known. Over the next 20–30 years, chronic diseases such as COPD and diabetes will increase. The calculations also show that more people will develop cancer as a result of age, but also for other reasons. Many people are affected by drug dependence and mental illness. We get older, more people want to live with dementia. At the same time, there will be fewer unemployed per pensioner. No break button for this development. That's why it's so important that we use the knowledge and experience we have. Our willingness to renew and improve healthcare will be crucial for the healthcare we can provide in the years to come, and the provision that generations after us will receive. By strengthening prevention, we can help make fewer people sick. We want a service-oriented healthcare that is built around patients' needs. We know that older people can get more good and healthy years if we put the effort in earlier. The results do not come immediately, they do not come by themselves at all, but around the country we have seen inspiring examples of municipalities that have thought – and think – prevention and that get it done. Interactions between hospitals and municipalities have been going on for a long time in many places in the country, and with very good results. It is this work that we are now building on. Involved healthcare staff have seen the needs of patients and found new and good solutions. Why should patients in the Church's journey to UNN in Tromsø have to get away from work and arrange for child care when the study with simple technical solutions can be done locally? That is why we do not need any more pilots, pilots and investigations; now is the time for action. Not all challenges are solved with more money. We also need to organize ourselves in the right way, and we need to be willing to make changes. Good dementia care can also be prevention, while providing better services to those affected. Next year, we're proposing 150 million. SEK for the development of day-time activities. This means that about 5,000 more people with dementia can get a more meaningful everyday life together with others, and that relatives get important relief. The offer shall be stepped up in the coming years. We are well on track to achieve the goal of providing grants to 12 000 lucky day care centres by the end of 2015. To date, around 5000 housing units have been committed for the planned period. For the next year, a further 1500 are being prepared. Patient safety has had a main focus from the government, and we are now doing more to investigate quality so that we can measure progress. Much is good, and progress is in the right direction. Still, we see that we can get better. I will therefore present Norway’s first Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard in 2012. The government will have full pressure on the work to put in place good, coherent ICT solutions in the health and care sector. We also put considerable emphasis on national core records. We do that because emergency health professionals need to have access to vital information about the patient. It can save lives and reduce the risk of something going wrong. Through health Norway.no, we will make it easier for patients to learn about health care. In our government, we announced next year that we are presenting our own information about ICT in healthcare. New information is now available to suggest that pension costs for health enterprises can increase by between 3 and 3.5 billion. Compared to that laid down in the 2012 State Budget. Final pension costs for 2012 are not known until the end of January next year. In the business meetings in January, I will not be demanding the recovery of increased pension costs. Other management requirements in Prop. 1 S will remain unchanged. The government will return to the management of any increased pension costs in the revised budget 2012. New information from the State Medicines Agency on the swine influenza vaccine shows that 29 cases of narcolepsy in vaccinated children have been reported in total against four cases in non-vaccinated children aged 4 to 19. Norway participates in a major European survey to provide us with more knowledge. Data collection for this study is scheduled to be completed in mid-December 2011 and final report is expected in February 2012. We will take action to strengthen the competence of diagnostics and the treatment of narcolepsy. For several years, Norway has been among the countries spending the most money on healthcare, but quality has not always been related to resource use. In recent years, therefore, the government has had a strong focus on improving quality. The OECD report Health that a Glance 2011 shows that Norway is now in the world top in terms of five-year survival for several cancers. Only Denmark has lower mortality after acute heart attack than Norway, while we have the fourth lowest mortality rate in all OECD countries at stroke. The major changes we have made in cancer and cardiovascular settings in recent years have produced results for the benefit of patients. There is every reason to thank competent staff at all levels of healthcare for the important and good work being done. We are also at the top of care services and care for the elderly, and the report shows that there is a high level of competence in the service. Developments in healthcare are therefore in the right direction, and we have established good responses in many areas. But we can also get better, so we want to know more about the results. We're measuring quality. We've put a greater focus on patient safety. And we're going to keep doing that. The reason Norway has such a good health system is not only a lot of resources and skills, but also that we have had the courage to make important changes. Not only in the context of cancer and heart attack, but also in the context of interaction, maternity care and work-sharing between hospitals, many new approaches have been made. I know that although Norway is at the top, we can have fewer errors, increased survival and more patient-friendly treatment through better work sharing and more innovation. We must continue to make changes if we want to continue with quality and patient safety. This budget does not only provide for a strengthening in dollars and cents, but for a continued willingness to change and to change both in hospitals and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e850	Governments indicate that, in the future, more people will suffer from diabetes. The Progress Party is the only party that points to the importance of having a separate plan and strategy for diabetes in the budget setting. We know that in 2006, the Brustad State Council launched a national strategy for the field of diabetes. Now the government has not managed to achieve the objectives on which the strategy is based, due to a lack of initiative, and a lot now suggests that the diabetes strategy is being put to death. There are no public documents that indicate that the diabetes strategy should continue. The question then arises: How will the government respond specifically to the Health Directorate’s recommendations in relation to the continuation of the diabetes strategy in addition to the ‘appropriate way’ set out in the 2012 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e857	In the case of people with diabetes and other chroniclers, they are one of the main reasons why we are now doing the big change in the healthcare system and implementing the Cooperation Reform. It is precisely the chronicler groups that need to be better offered where they live, in view of more targeted interventions, better skills, diabetes nurses and others who can provide guidance on both diet, increased activity and health centres — there are many measures that are important for diabetics as for other chronic groups. The big deal here is just to give people a better offer in the municipalities where they live, and to follow up the chronicles, where the diabetics make up a large proportion. We also have very good cooperation with the central organizations for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e862	When the Council of State has been confronted with health challenges, the mantra and the response to this fall, after the government budget was presented, has been that we should increase everything, because we have proposed a real growth of 1.4 billion. NOK in Norwegian hospitals. In the case of Oslo University Hospital, that's the answer, and in the case of the queues that have to go down, that's the answer, because you've increased the appropriations. This also applies to waiting time, it has to go down because we have proposed 1.4 billion. kr more. The same applies to cancer care — an increase. On questions from the Progress Party, the Ministry has confirmed that 500 million. kr is going to go to salary growth, 135 million. kr to increased interest-rate burden and 100 million. kr for municipal co-financing, national services, etc. Will the Council confirm that there will still be 1.4 billion. kr more in real growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e867	That's 1.4 pst. growth in the hospital budget of the specialist health service. This does not mean that there is no need to change and improve the efficiency of the service as a whole – of course that has to be done. But now I have been listening to Per Arne Olsen, who has shown the cooperation that was held under the Bondevik government, and how many people were treated under the Bondevik government, and the representative Olsen forgot to inform me about, was that the deficits also went into the weather. At least for those batches that are engaged in balancing the economy as a basis for building quality in healthcare, it is absolutely essential that we deal both with budgets and with the goal of reducing waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e872	It is also important that representatives from the government, the state councils and the red-green representatives of the population provide a realistic picture of the budget we are discussing today. I want to repeat what Per Arne Olsen said, namely that this autumn we have received in response from the government – to all the challenges facing the health system – no more change and more efficiency, but that it is geared to a growth in patient treatment. In response from the Council of State to the Right Group of 2 December 2011, it is clear that the growth that the government has made up for next year has already been reflected in the growth that has occurred after the first tertiary in 2011. According to that answer, there will be a real decline in the planned patient treatment in the hospitals in 2012. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e877	There is growth in patient treatment in hospitals and also in municipalities as a result of the Interaction Reform. I listen with very open ears when I hear that you have to give a realistic picture of your budget. I've really tried to do that, but I have to say that the Right and the rest of the opposition stand for the most creative proposal in terms of the ICT bet. I support and am very pleased with the strong commitment to a great ICT bet across the country, but when you grant money to pay the interest, where is the loan money? In fact, the rules governing regional health establishments require all borrowings to be above the line. That is why it is in the budget for over 2 billion. SEK for loans for hospital construction. Moreover, depreciation costs are not included in a sector where depreciation occurs as quickly as it would actually start to pay down the loan proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e882	The government parties state in the vote that they agree with the government that the proposals of the Hagen Committee on Innovation and the proposals of the Kaasa Committee on Related Care will be considered in the context later. This will have dramatic consequences for a few families with ME sick children, with whom I think the Council of State is familiar. They've lost their care money. This is really about a few families, where children need 24 hours a day — care and care. They don't go to school, they're really sick. Just as an example: a family now takes vacation, they lost the allowance from November 1st this year, and now they have taken out the holiday money until New Year and don't know their poor advice. There's no local government system that can compensate for what care money is, that's a full wage. So we're suddenly from Nav not meant to be a serious disease, it's not listed on the list they have. So my question to the Council of State is, what in the world can you do to make these families manage? After all, the human health system cannot take over these.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e887	All those in need of care also have the right to receive help, either at home, in hospitals or in institutions. In the case of these children, I cannot go into the individual cases, because I do not know the details of what the representative Davay refers to. But there is no doubt that there are many who struggle and have challenges in everyday life, especially perhaps in relation to both disabled children and acute illness, long-term illness may also be. That's exactly why we set up the Kaasa Committee. We've got the report from them, it's going to be consulted, and we're going to follow it up, because it also gives some other direction to providing support for both children and parents who have great challenges in terms of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e893	The Workers' Party Thomas Breen had earlier in the debate today an article that, if we peel off a little superficial rhetoric, was basically about politics being a priority. I fully agree with that. There is no doubt that we in the health sector have major challenges and many tasks. If there's no shortage, there's a shortage of resources, both human and economic. We have seen a number of examples of health cows growing. Many people have to wait too long for cancer treatment, and more than 4,000 people are in line for drug treatment, etc. Looking at these challenges, and that policy is definitely a priority, I am surprised that the Labour Party prioritises public funding for ultrasonics for 12 weeks instead of addressing the challenges in other areas. Does the Council of State really believe that this is the right priority and the best use of the public health budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e904	I have previously said in Stortinget that we from the government are adding up to both a broad debate and a process on the question of early ultrasound. That is why we have also taken the initiative of a conference on 16 January, in which the opposition parties are also invited to express their views and listen to professionals with different positions. It was interesting that the National Council for Quality and Priority responded too early to ultrasound at its meeting yesterday. It is clear that professional recommendations always weigh heavily. But this also has to be seen in a context, where we then complete the process that we have set up. In this budget, there are no changes in the practice that are, but we know that very many make early ultrasound at their own expense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e913	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e916	The draft budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare means that the government has a priority of 139 billion. kr on a strong public health service. We can do this in Norway because the government has kept order in its own house. It allows for growth in a healthcare service where the offer is independent of personal economic prosperity. Here Norway is an exception to the situation in other western countries. We are all familiar with that, among other things. the Greek State is indebted. The result will be redundancies, cut wages and cut pensions. But the basics must be covered – food, electricity, school and health? No, irresponsibility over the year also affects the security of basic welfare goods for the population. With us, the debate on the health budget is a discussion about how expansive we can be. In Greece, everyday life is a question of whether the light can be on or not. In the morning of November 16 this year, the Ministry of Health in Athens lost the light of the roof lamps and photocopiers and PCs, because the power company cut the power supply. The bill was not paid. Greek health authorities then had 3.8 million. euro in unpaid electricity bills. So there's a relationship between keeping the house in order and being able to provide healthcare to everyone, regardless of personal economic wealth. Let's keep doing that. This draft budget, together with the financial arrangements for municipalities next year, creates a safe starting point for the Cooperation Reform. I have had many meetings with municipal politicians over the past few weeks, and although the opposition says that the reform is correct and welcomed, the opposition does not want to take this reform now. However, we know that many municipalities have already done many of the grips of the reform, and that the inspiration for the reform comes from the many municipalities that have developed local medical centres alone or in cooperation with other municipalities. Alta municipality has practically implemented the reform already, and it is more in spite of the systems than through the systems. Laws, regulations and funding are now being set up to facilitate other municipalities. The debate also hears horrors that not everyone will have the necessary hospital treatment due to the Interaction Reform. That's not true. Everyone who needs it is going to hospital, and it's still going to be the doctor who decides this, and no one else. But in situations where the municipality by building up its offer can offer at least the same treatment, it is a good thing for the individual citizen. Interaction reform is therefore not austerity reform. This budget shows it. We spend a lot of money in Norway on health and care, and this will continue to be the case. The reality is that the government has spent money on cooperation measures for three years before the reform is introduced: 95 million. SEK in 2009, SEK 369 million. kr in 2010 and increasing to SEK 580 million. kr in 2011. In 2012, the government proposed a new 740 million. kr, in addition to the combined responsibility of municipalities and hospitals for medical interventions. Therefore, municipalities are also controlled by the economic instrument together with hospitals. Health and care needs are rising in the coming years. Therefore, the Interaction Reform will provide growth in municipal health and care services. This will happen over a few years, because professionals are to be recruited and hired and many new ones are to be trained. I remind you of the large mental health escalation plan, which also prioritised the construction of services near where people live. This plan started with an eight-year planning period, but it turned out to take another two years. The cooperation reform will also take time. Then it's a very bad argument to wait for the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e935	Norway has a good health system in general. Most people get the health care they need, and are left with positive experiences. This must be at the bottom when we discuss the challenges – for challenges we have. I understand that the government parties have a need to boast, but I miss that they take on the fact that there are actually many thousands of people waiting, and that many are waiting very long. The girl I've been following in the last three years was offered long-term psychiatric treatment yesterday. For more than two years she's been waiting. In the meantime, she has survived due to sporadic follow-up, some oral-to-mouth method, and a large amount of voluntary assistance and support. Voluntary organisations do a crazy important job, and I don't even dare think about what Norway would have been like without this assistance. Therefore, the Progress Party in its budget increases tax credits for gifts to volunteer and allocates additional funds. 4 000 drug addicts in treatment queues in the first quarter of this year. Recent figures suggest that the number of people in queues goes down. This should have pleased me. Unfortunately, I'm worried because you're now getting people out of line by making worse offers. A long-term, heavily addicted young man, whom I have also followed for a long time, was offered four hours of treatment three days a week as treatment. This was to happen while he was still living at a hostel with other addicts. Of course, he was unable to make use of this offer, and he fell out of the offer about at the same time as he started there. He could thus be deleted from the waiting list. An increasing number of treatment institutions with years of experience report that the treatment course has been dramatically curtailed in length. The result is that more people get offers, but fewer succeed. Is it really this majority in this Chamber that wants – to flaunt as much as possible through a system of how successful, but which provides better figures in waiting list statistics? For the Progress Party, it is not an objective to reduce the number of queues at the expense of quality and performance. We are therefore promoting 300 million in our alternative budget. health care, private institutions, municipalities, voluntary organisations. There are vacancies all over the country, and these we will use from 1 January – without four on quality. On Friday 18 November, we had our annual meeting with drug users here at Stortinget. It's just to say that there's exactly the same issues they raised this year as every other year. Not a single point has been confirmed. The Progress Party is also very concerned about the offer of psychiatry in the country. 16 pst. of the municipalities alerts cut in the offer, despite the fact that very many municipalities have also cut in the current year. During the weekend we could read in several media that the country’s most important professional environment in psychosis – in Ullevål hospitals – is now being laid down. Daily we can read about closures and cuts. When both the state and the municipality are alerting us in an area where we already have a lack of capacity, I believe it clearly shows that the government has no control. Therefore, the Progress Party also grants earmarked funds – 100 million – within the psychiatry. kr extra – to be distributed between health enterprises, voluntary activities and municipalities. Rehabilitation services are also being reduced, despite the government's mantra on the line of work. Rehabilitation is often essential for people to return to work after illness or injury. Rehabilitation is also crucial for people who live with a chronic disease, compared to being able to work. Nevertheless, not all of this is offered. Rehabilitation sites are being laid down, waiting lists are increasing, hot water basins are disappearing, and fewer are being treated for warmer strokes. You can achieve many benefits by living in Norway, but it helps with luck, a little howl and screaming and a fat wallet. This year, too, the Progress Party has given a high priority to health and care. Health and care are important elements to give most people a safe and healthy life. Good health provides well-being. The promotion team has given high priority to health and care because it provides savings in sick pay, it provides savings in redundancy benefits and in disability benefits. We have prioritised this highly, because we want to fight against the developments we have seen in recent years – a two-part healthcare system, which prioritises them with money, and those who are able to scream loudly. Since I have some time left, I would like to say something to the representative from SV, who has no control over what the newspapers write in their headlines. I am fully aware of that, but I expect them to have control of the headlines on their own websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e967	The government parties have recently stated on several occasions – not least in the financial debate – that the Right Black Painting Health Service, and that we are talking the healthcare system down and spreading dissatisfaction. It is more likely that the problem is the rose-painting of the government parties – that they do not recognise that it does not actually work well enough – even though there have been some recognitions in this debate today. The 2011 Commonwealth Fund survey shows that Norway has a good basis, but that we are far from exploiting our potential to deliver the best healthcare to the population, and that the challenges for Norway are not about money use but about management and organisation. The study shows that we're good at a lot, but worse where we should be better. It shows the dangers by being too satisfied because we spend a lot of money on health care. The reports show that Norway is willing to invest in health, but that there is a gap between the good intentions and the results we have. The Government, by State Secretary Kåss, pronounced to the Medisin of the Day: ‘We must dry out with critical eyes on how [we] have arranged the service.’ He also said that we do not have optimal organisation and that we need to have more debate on the content of services. He also underlined that we have built systems that have not always been planned with patients in the centre, and that the level of service patients receive is too poor. It's just this relationship Right for a long time has been talking about and trying to get the government involved in a debate about – the content of a healthcare service where we put the patient in the centre, about increased quality and patient safety and better organisation and management, and not just budgets and economics. When the State Secretary of the Workers' Party points out failure in the healthcare service, the Right does not accuse him and the Government of talking Norway and the Health Service down. No, on the contrary, we welcome a debate on how we can do things better. When speaking about the need for better quality of services, better organisation and management of health services are needed, and for example: The provision of cancer treatment needs to be improved, so of course we do not talk health services down, but focus on what needs to be done better to improve quality and reduce health cows and waiting times. So I would encourage the government parties to be a little more honest and rather cooperate with the opposition in order to ensure a better health care and a service offer for patients. The right is that we should provide good quality health and care services when we need them. The right’s alternative budget reinforces this objective through measures to reduce health cows and waiting times. However, despite a formidable increase in the appropriations allocated to the health sector, health cows have increased by about a quarter. 74 000 under the Red-Green Government, according to the Health Directorate. These are not just numbers, but people with different diseases, many very serious. What they have in common is that they need investigation and treatment, and that they have to wait a long time, despite the fact that we know that there is free capacity. The red-greens clearly believe that it is better that patients are in a public health queue than that they are being treated in a private hospital at the state's expense. The strong growth in private health insurance in recent years is a result of increasing health cows and waiting times. Nearly 300,000 Nordics now have health insurance, according to the Main Financial Industry Organisation, and the number increased by a total of 23 p.m. Just last year. Seven out of ten young people want private health insurance. It is pointless and disrespectful that patients have to wait for treatment for months and years when they could get help from private hospitals paid by the public in a short time. The combination of long public waiting times, free private capacity and the frustration patients experience in an uncertain disease phase means that many now pay off their own pocket to get studies faster. It's a paradox that it's the red-green government's fight against private offers that makes us see the contours of real privatisation and a class-based healthcare system, where they can buy faster help with money, while the others have to put themselves in a public health store. It's a development Right at all not wanting, and a development that we strongly oppose. We want a strong and well publicly funded health service where people get high-quality help when they need it. We can achieve that goal if we also cooperate with the ideal and private hospitals. They must become partners for the public and not be seen as competitors, because if we are to secure a society of well-being that works, we need to think again. We have to have change and change skills, we have to change, let go of all good forces and give patients and users diversity and freedom of choice. It provides faster and better health care, creating security and ensuring well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e998	A few years ago, we had a debate here in Stortinget about the importance of getting young people to train in the health sector. Then I said that we had to be better at speaking Norwegian health care. I would like to repeat that here today. In recent times, we have received international measurements that show that we have reason to be proud. We are best in Europe for cancer survival. We have the second lowest mortality rate in the world when it comes to acute heart attack, and we're at the top of the world when it comes to brain stroke survival. For everything, we only use 0.8 pst. of the administrative and bureaucratic health budget, against the OECD average, which is 3 pst. The good results are not least due to the fact that we have many highly skilled people in the Norwegian health system. They deserve praise when we have a health debate today. Then there's another prerequisite, that the big money spends this government on the important welfare tasks, like health, and not on tax cuts. This year the government has followed up the Interaction Reform with National Health and Care Plan, the Law on Municipal Health and Care Services and the Public Health Act, which is the first of its kind. Norway has the highest total cost of healthcare services per person in Europe and almost twice the average in EU countries. We're supposed to be happy about that. At the same time, we have to assume that we are spending too little on preventing disease and the more on repair. The reasons why several of us become patients, we've done too little with so far. The interaction reform and actions of the national health and care plan shall support the better use of health resources, for the benefit of the population. We must use all the policies and all the social sectors if we are to help people live health-promoting, happy and good lives. Fortunately, when we travel around, we experience a great deal of support for the Cooperation Reform. It comes, of course, from the fact that many municipalities were ahead of the reform, and the good experience of its interaction and cooperation was taken into account in the work on the reform. So it's not really invented in a corridor in the department. So I want to spend one minute on the Right and the Advance Party's health policy and health rhetoric. It's strange to hear how these parties run and talk down the health sector, sail if someone today has moderated a bit. I think it feels unfair for many health workers who every day make a great effort, and it must be seen as unreal for patients who experience that they are getting help in the health care system and who also experience getting better from serious diseases. This is an equally true picture of our health care system as the descriptions of what doesn't work. We have to have both perspectives. We have to know something about what's going well, and then we have to get better at what's not going so well. Therefore, this government has patient safety and fair distribution of resources at the top of its agenda. But the recipe of the right party is the old one, which has proved to be ineffective; privatisation and commercialisation of the health sector. Recently, an evaluation of the health system was published in Sweden, focusing on the results that can be seen after the extensive privatisation that the right-wing government has carried out. Here it turns out that the promised improvement has not been achieved at all, either in terms of costs, quality or capacity. Nevertheless, the right hand parts here with us will go and do the same. Yes, it is even said that the major international commercial health groups will be able to establish themselves freely and within the services they find most profitable. Then the bill should be sent to the community without the same institutions having to have an agreement with the public, as today – if one is to believe Right formulations in the report on Quality of Care, as they presented earlier this year, and as the representatives Solberg and Höie presented with brawl and brawl. Or, as the party said in its comment, when the law on specialist health services was dealt with: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right consider that social considerations should not be used as a basis for the approval of health institutions.’ It is, as I see it, a paradigm shift in Norwegian health policy, and I wonder how to give priority to health resources at all, for example. between parts of the country and patient groups, with such a policy. The representative, Høie, supported by the Per Arne Olsen Progress Party, said that a release of commercial forces would not lead to an over-establishment. All experience shows the opposite. We already see that people living near the major specialist hospitals use more specialist health services than do those who live far away. A substantial increase in offers leads to an increase in demand where these commercial ones establish themselves and within the more lucrative conditions. It will mean a transfer of resources from the part of the country in which I live, and to the more central part of the country. I really have to say that I hope I never experience such a policy being launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1025	In the last year's budget debate, I had a strong focus on the many older people who are actually in line waiting for a place in a nursing home. TV 2 had checked up and found out that 3,068 old, sick elderly people were waiting in hospital, and there were strong signals that this was just the top of the iceberg. The Council of State's reaction to the findings was to pursue the relevant municipalities and accuse them of crimes. The Council of State pointed out that the municipal health service law at that time established that the municipalities should provide the necessary health care, and with that reference it is such that Norwegian municipalities cannot keep waiting lists for the sick home place. The concept of ‘necessary health and care services’ has continued in the new Health and Care Services Act, which we adopted this summer. There is still the danger that government councils or supervisory authorities may come up with the index finger and say "fy-fy", you are not allowed to have waiting lists for hospitals. If the municipality first stated that Mrs. Hansen needs a place in a nursing home, she will get it quickly. The result is that waiting lists are still kept, but it is done in the hidden. Municipalities support the fact that they then provide the necessary health and care services via home health care, but on the basis of a professional assessment, municipal professionals still believe that the best level of care for Mrs Hansen is a health care home. But there are no spaces, personnel and money. This is a kind of fear culture that we know from countries we prefer not to compare with. At the same time, we all know, both politicians, bureaucrats and health professionals, that there are really a lot of old sick people who, based on an overall assessment, would have needed a sick home, if one were to use the concept of ‘best effective care level’, rather than ‘lowest effective care level’. I would therefore like to draw attention to proposal No. 7 from an overall opposition, asking for municipalities to be ordered to carry statistics with waiting licences to hospitalization sites. We want to get the facts on the table, because we think it is absolutely necessary given the quality work we want to do in Norwegian care for the elderly. The narrow approach of the government to only grants to lucky day care centres without simultaneously referring to net access is frightening. Then to the community economy. Norwegian municipalities produce nearly 70 pst. of welfare services in this country. Therefore, in today's situation, the local economy is crucial for our well-being. Under the red-green government, the local government's debt has gone right. Since 2003, the local government sector has almost doubled its debt. At the same time, the government asks that municipalities increase social assistance, expand the kindergartens, employ more teachers, provide adapted training to all who need it, fill the swimming pools, build nursing homes and nursing homes, provide exclusive facilities to all who want it, provide nourishing assistance at meals and time enough to eat, and ensure that users of nursing and care services receive participation in the day-to-day provision of services. This is a calculation that just doesn't go up, and the government's 2012 budget makes the situation even worse. KS has estimated that the municipalities with this budget are missing 300 million. kr in order to be able to continue the level of service of the day. At the top of this situation is one of the biggest municipal health reforms in a long time, namely the Interaction Reform, which creates further uncertainty about the economy, island-aid uncertainty, uncertainty about what ready-to-print patients are, uncertainty about municipal co-financing. The Progress Party has taken this challenge seriously, both by strengthening the local economy and also by earmarking 1.5 billion. kr to the care of the elderly, to mention something. The government seems to believe that it can carry out such a major reform with minimal resources for conversion. We now see that hospitals are cutting down on their specialist services. At the same time, we see that the municipalities consider professionals for the money to be used for municipal co-financing, and this before agreements are in place, and before it is likely that the municipalities can actually reduce laydays in the specialist health service. I fear that those who, in the next round, can be harmed by this process, again are old, sick elderly and our chroniclers. I hope I'm wrong, but unfortunately I don't think so. So in the debate there's been a little discussion about the ISF, and I think that's interesting, because during the Bondevik government, the Progress Party, as mentioned, got an impact that it would be 60 pst. ISF and 40 pst. in the case of basic financing. This led the hospitals to use all the available capacity and to extend as far as they could, so that they could release these funds and take away the queues. The queues went down, but of course the government's expenditure would increase. That would be natural. Now that the government parties and the Council of State only focus on the budgetary balance, it really means that the 280 000 that are then on the waiting list are the hospital's order reserve. It is an approach to sick people from whom the Progress Party is taking a strong distance, and which, in my opinion, shows the true human vision of the government. I also want to get into this with the dignity guarantee, because Thomas Breen did not respond to the reply instead. I hope that the guarantee of dignity is not considered in the same way as the so-called guarantee of cancer, because this is in reality a rule that the municipalities have to comply with, and cannot wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1056	On 1 January 2012, we will start the cooperation reform in all municipalities in Norway. The opposition sometimes talks like there's something completely new, and there's something that we're not going to start with. Instead, the representative Bent Höie said that the reform must be built from the bottom up. Yeah, that's exactly what's happening. Projects have been in progress for many years, and patients who are ready-to- print are something the municipalities have always been responsible for. The difference now is that if they can accept immediately, they will make money on it. There are many municipalities out there that have been both foresight and creative. They have already proved that the cooperation reform is the right way to go. In Trøndelag they were early out with offers before, instead of and after hospitals to patients who were too sick to go straight home after hospital treatment. In Alta, they have built specialist outpatient clinics where specialists from Tromsø have regular office days. There are already 12 district medical centers built around the country, and seven more are under planning. In several municipalities, dialysis sites are available, so patients do not travel long distances to receive dialysis three times a week. All of these examples have led to better provision for patients, better professional settings and better use of resources. So maybe it's time to stop talking about the interaction reform down and give recognition to all the municipalities and health companies that have been working on many good interactions for many years, driven by fires in health care. The debate creates the impression that Norway is a retard when it comes to quality and patient safety in the healthcare system. I'll take a big distance from that. We are among those who have the best health care in the world. And we have health workers who every day, with high medical standards, do their best. But despite that, we have unwanted events that have many different causes, and of course we should focus on that. Therefore, as the first country in the world, we have had a national survey of the extent of patient injury in Norwegian hospitals. We're going to use that mapping to learn from. The Hospital Østfold is an example of follow-up. They're now putting out unwanted events online, so we can all read about them. They have long openly reported all adverse events and have therefore often been exposed to the media. Openness is important, so that everyone can learn, and not least that we show openness about unwanted events, so that the hospital is willing to learn from its mistakes. They can avoid similar mistakes in the future. Then we must not help hanging out those who actually dare to be open. Of course, we politicians must be critical when things are not as they should, but we must also be able to give recognition to what is good. We are betting on quality and safety in this year's budget. The Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’ is strengthened by 3 million. kr in the budget and the national unit for patient safety is strengthened by 5 million. kr. It is those who are to receive notifications of adverse events and use it to return learning information to the services. We can't boast that we cut taxes, but we can be proud to have a budget that both secures jobs and prioritises important welfare issues. I am pleased that we are presenting a budget that is forward-looking, with the focus on the aims of the Interaction Reform, and that will also help to reduce waiting lists and improve quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1073	Today we are discussing the budget for the health and care sector for 2012, a budget with a framework of 139.2 billion. kr and a growth of 4,1 pst., or 5,5 brd. kr, in relation to the current year’s budget. Norway is high on many living conditions factors. We have a high level of employment and good welfare arrangements. Norway spends more money on welfare measures than ever before. In 2011, the UN has also ranked Norway at the top of the ‘Human Development Index’ among 182 countries worldwide. Like the United Nations, Redd Barna has for the 12th time made a ranking focusing on health, education and economic conditions for women and children in 164 countries. Based on that report, Norway is the best country to live in for mothers and children. One of the main challenges facing the welfare state in the future is to provide sufficient staff for healthcare services and not least to include immigrants in the Norwegian welfare country. The welfare state is not under construction, but under conversion. In order to meet the new challenges we face in the future, public health work must be given high priority over the years to come. The health system means a lot to people's health, but health is also created in and in cooperation with sectors other than the health sector alone. Education, work, living conditions and health behaviour also affect our health and the social distribution of health in our society. There are significant social health differences also in Norway. The interaction reform, which will enter into force on 1 January 2012, will be important for achieving good cross-sectoral cooperation to promote good health and prevent disease for the whole population, irrespective of social status. On 19 June 2009, the Cooperation Reform Corrected Treatment – in the right place – was presented in a timely manner. Both before and after it was presented, employees, organisations and municipalities, together with healthcare companies, work together to develop good interaction areas. From the new year on, the reform will be put into practice, and we will, among other things, implement it. focus on prevention rather than repair. The interaction reform in the Orkdal region with 12 municipalities, 50,000 inhabitants and more than 50,000 recreational residents has put this in place and cooperates well across municipalities together with healthcare companies and specialist health services. It is not the case that health authorities alone should take the lead in cross-sectoral work. In this work, it is necessary to look at the instruments to be used to stimulate cross-sectoral partnership in public health work. This concerns outdoor organisations, sport in Norway, user organisations and not least schools, kindergartens and workplaces. Together, they need to look at how to develop good arenas in order to create good public health in the years to come. Now, through the Interaction Reform, we are carefully remodeling healthcare from repair to prevention, and it is precisely through targeted efforts towards primary health services. In relation to tasks and responsibilities, the primary health service must be the basic element of the Norwegian health system. It is in the 429 municipalities of the country that people live and live, and today we spend less than a quarter of specialist healthcare expenditure on health and care services in municipalities. This ratio has been relatively stable in the last ten years. At the same time, healthcare expenditure has doubled during this period. Since 1990, the number of medical doctors has increased by 42 pst. in the primary health service and by 93 pst. in the specialist health service. This government is committed to delivering policy results that generate innovation, predictability, better division of tasks, improved patient safety, improved quality and health for each krona. To mention something provided by the government of Stoltenberg and the Council of State: 1.3 million. more investigations and treatments in 2010 than in 2005 The Keyhole has also delivered in relation to that with safe and healthy food in the world’s stop from acute heart attack in the world’s peak against stroke best in Europe on cancer survival, according to OECD figures working for better and faster cancer treatment dementia plan comes in 2015 million to ME study new heart medicine on blue prescription shorter waiting time and fewer deadline breaks eResept is a success more saying yes to organ donation 19 million. kr for campaign against smoking. These were just a few very few points on which the government delivers. The Council of State has already reported that there will be a growing awareness of quality and patient safety and a new drug plan in 2012, in order to improve Norwegian health services, which will benefit all citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1147	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1150	I believe that everyone who has heard the debate here today understands that we are looking forward to the entry into force of the cooperation reform. It is the answer to what many municipalities have already done for several years, and it is a bottom-up reform. It is – as the Per Arne Olsen representative wanted – already fulfilled. Now it's put into system, and it's going to apply to everyone. In this respect, the Red-Green Government has been committed to increasing the competence of care and care. In St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, the plans were put forward towards 2015, and the communication clearly stated that expanding competence and recruiting for care must now be done. Through the Competence Plan 2015, a lot of health workers are better able to meet the challenges we see, they are able to meet the Interaction Reform through professional competence. As a good example, I would like to refer to the Top of the project in Larvik, which has got the money to train people who have worked for a long time in health care. They have gained new skills and the opportunity to obtain a letter as a health worker. Such ideas should be adopted by others, for that means increased competence in care, more skilled and satisfied employees and patients. A new project also under way in Larvik, called MICS, is targeting minority language groups who want to work in the care sector. The aim is inclusion, language training and increased competence, and then recruitment into care. This is how many municipalities meet the challenges that the Interaction Reform can pose in terms of recruitment and competence, and they are meeting it offensively in public care. The government is targeted at dementia care. The increasing number of dentures in the coming years presents challenges. When an earmarked grant of 150 million is now granted. kr for the development of daily services, it shows that we have an important focus on a group that needs it. This grant will allow the creation of 2,300 new places and a minimum of 5000 new places to be offered. It will be good both for the demented and for the relatives. In the long term, the aim is to legislate the daily provision, but it is important to build up and then legislate when the municipalities are more clear. Demensorgens ABC and Eldreorgens ABC are important contributions to the Competencelift. More than 8 000 health workers have used the offer to upgrade their professional knowledge, which is necessary and important. Increased competence and focus on recruitment will help patients to receive proper treatment at the right time, in line with the aims of the Interaction Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1167	It is a paradox that the red-green politicians are so afraid of private health services, while being their best friend. The result of the policy pursued is commercialisation and privatisation. In the period that the red-green government has ruled, there has been a large growth in private health care. From 2006 to 2009, the level of privately funded treatment doubled. The cows are growing. Instead of people being at work, they're waiting for operations, and instead of the state getting tax revenue, it pays out sick pay. And the worst thing is that many people suffer and have pain. I think it is serious that the country's prime minister is leading very sick people behind the light with the so-called cancer guarantee. Yesterday, on TV 2, we were working party politicians who said: Thorbjørn Berntsen called it a loss by Stoltenberg. Arild Hansen, an old working party leader from Troms, who has been waiting four months for cancer treatment, says that the Prime Minister is simply speeding up a lie. I think that's very serious. The representative Breen says it's important to have ambitious targets. Then I would say that the most important thing is to keep what you promise. We watched TV 2 for a while ago that private hospitals are ready to accept cancer patients, and then I believe it is immoral not to use them. We are constantly ignoring the fact that so many billions have come to municipalities, billions to healthcare, but most of this money goes to salary and pension expenditure. As an Oslo citizen, I'm worried. I acknowledge the work of the employees of the Oslo Hospitals. I know they work under enormously tough conditions. In recent years, many have tried to tell the Minister of Health and others about what is happening in the capital process. Nurses finish, doctors finish, even the head of Oslo University Hospital ends. And it's taken a long time to find a new one, which I fully understand. Now it's time to listen to the warners who are coming. It is time to stop and grant money, so that one can actually slow down, listen to the patients, look at the results, and not just go ahead based on the information that you get from the health bureaucrats, who have obviously not been at the ‘golden’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1182	It might have been an idea that the representative Listhaug had been just as prejudiced when she was a health agency in Oslo, but that was probably not the case. ‘Agreement on Distress’ is a ten-year-old project that has ten sites in Norway, including: in Haugesund, Kristiansand, Grimstad, Sandefjord, Porsgrund and Bergen – as well as working with four further actions elsewhere in the country. The project has a modest application framework of about 2 million. kr for 2012. The project includes, among others: targeting people who are struggling with drug problems, including everything from food distribution to rehabilitation. The project is operated by IOGT and with street record Olaf Lande as the Executive Director. I am glad that there are people and organisations burning to make everyday life a little easier for those who are at the bottom of the table. It should just be lacking that we should not set up politically with a few dollars, so that this type of business can go around. ‘Agreement on distress’ has ambitions to expand its activities further — not in competition with others, but because it is necessary. Unfortunately, there is still enough need for everyone. IOGT and ‘Together on Distress’ deserve increased attention around the important work done in many places in the country. It would be natural for a political and professional team to ensure that the project is met by the necessary means, as it is again multiplied by voluntary efforts, contributions from industry and a lot of local support where the enterprise is located. I believe that the "Sammen of Distress" and the IOGT should be seen with the same eyes as the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission. I am pleased that this important project has been supported for several years in the Committee, and will take the opportunity to thank a unanimous committee for once again clarifying, through comments on the budget, that 'Sammen om Nöstningen' is a project that Stortinget asks the Health Directorate to give priority. I therefore expect the directorate to follow up the 2012 request from the project in a positive way. I am also very pleased that the department in the current year gave NOK 150 000 extra to the project. We who have worked for this for years are happy that this important work is appreciated by the Council of State and other political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1191	When the artist St. Thomas was found dead in 2007, after taking a lethal combination of prescription drugs, his parents found 52 rejections from psychologists at his home, in his apartment. There were 52 calls for help. He doesn't live anymore. The fact is that such endless and desertless letter rounds to get psychological help were not uncommon at all. As a result, a health company asked for better interaction with contract psychologists so that the sick themselves would not have to write letters to psychologists with a risk of rejection. A cooperative body was set up to assist in the transition between the decision-makers and contract psychologists, so as to avoid writing letters, in a state of illness, to all psychologists on a list. It is very important in the future to look at how the cooperation body works, whether it works and whether those who need help actually get it. It is important that the psychological competence becomes more accessible in the public health service as part of ensuring equivalent services for people with somatic and mental disorders. The Committee has said that the government should consider funding schemes for psychologists in municipalities. For mental disorders, it is also best to get help close to where you live, quickly. There is a need for cooperation reform. In the United Kingdom, they have launched a national programme to make treatment for anxiety and depression rapidly available to most people. The model implies a build-up of services for people with mild and moderate anxiety and depression and previous intervention in the course of the disease. The offer is available in 2011 for at the top of 50 pst. by the adult population, with the aim of covering the whole country by 2015. During this period, 3660 new health workers with cognitive therapy skills have been trained. The programme is accompanied by research and can document its impact. This results — more people get healthy, more people get to work, and it is socio-economically profitable. In Norway, 10 million have now been allocated. kr for a pilot project. It's very joyful. Rapid mental health care in municipalities is in line with the main objective of the Interaction Reform to prevent more and treat earlier. The health budget is also about mental illness and the equivalency of those who are struggling mentally. Therefore, the measures in the budget are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1198	Our welfare state has shown its sustainability in a very demanding time in Norway and Europe. The government’s policy – which is to create values, manage the market wisely, ensure good distribution and take joint responsibility for each other – has led Norway to become Europe’s Soria Moria country. Young unemployed people from other European countries flock to Norway to work. Good health is affected by comprehensive solutions in the broad sense. The word in the national economy and the redistributing and ensuring equal access to healthcare for individuals without having to worry about affording treatment provides security. The achievement of the objectives of the health and care sector is linked to other policies, such as: Navel. I'll say a little bit about that. It is important that healthcare and Nav play an active role in meeting each other’s goals and reforms that affect people’s living conditions and job opportunities. The interaction reform and the Public Health Act have an impact on living conditions and the ability of individuals to provide well for themselves and children, if any. It has to work together here. Municipalities and Nav must contract in a way that provides good and coherent services to the population of the municipalities. Children will always be affected by major changes in the health and living conditions of the family. Specialist health services have come a long way in assessing children’s needs when they are related. Nav also has a responsibility to assess the situation of children and to contribute to comprehensive and coherent services for them and their families. In Kristiansand, the specialist health service and Nav work together to establish child contacts similar to those in hospitals. In Troms, they've developed in the company – a project that gets people with muscle and skeletal disorders to work on their injuries. Here, too, there is good cooperation between Nav, municipal and specialist health services. These two examples follow in practice throughout the country. Welfare technology is another area where healthcare and Nav improve services, providing people with better guidance and better everyday life. The hub of competence develops well-functioning technology products and applications, and there is a great deal of technology and programme development in the specialist health service. Both departments have online training and guidance arrangements. It is important here that Nav and healthcare cooperate so that useful technology and software can be exchanged and coordinated in the long term. Finally, I would like to say a little about the conversion process in Oslo. It cannot be discussed without at the same time looking at the surrounding health businesses. In all health establishments throughout the country, large conversions, demanding and challenging have been made. I recognise major challenges in Oslo, but I expect the Council of State to assume that further conversion continues, and that we follow the process carefully, so that the surrounding companies will not lose either in terms of jobs or in terms of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1211	I've heard a lot of responses from this pulpit over time. But rarely have I reacted more than when the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen said that she feared an over-establishment within lucrative suffering. One does not talk much with the 277,000 patients waiting for treatment at the end of 2010, if one believes that many of them experience what they have as very lucrative suffering. In this debate, the government has placed great emphasis on the financial responsibility they show, and that there is a background for not doing anything to reduce the health situation in this country. But then it's a paradox that one could have done a lot within today's budget and saved money as well. When an average operation in a Norwegian hospital costs $50,000 per person, it is also such that the average income corresponds to funding within two months. This means that one can finance simple operations within two months as long as people are faster back to work — within two months — without costing the state anything, because the government is covering the sick money today. When one sees that the situation is that an average patient waits for 73 days, while it might have been self-financing to treat patients within the same time frame, the government does not choose to do structural grips, because then they have to use private capacity. This campaign against the private solutions helped patients to get poorer offers than they had to get, to suggest that they wait longer than they need to wait, and to offer a worse health care than we could have had. If we use the example of heart disease, with which the government has started to work at great prices after the Progress Party has put forward representatives' proposals on precisely heart disease, then while one is building up public capacity, the patients are waiting for treatment. Instead of that solution, a purchased capacity that is available in Denmark could be purchased. Patients did not wait, while building up the necessary public health capacity. The problem is that it is not the patients that are most important to this government. That's too bad. The Progress Party shows that we represent an alternative in Norwegian health policy. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1222	In Sogn and Fjordane, the cooperation reform is a pure trade reform. This is because the municipalities have not been able to organise the reform economically and professionally. For example, I can say that Eid municipality is going to have 6 million. kr for the reform. During 2012, the municipality of Eid will pay 6 million. kr to Health Førde to cover the 20 pst part that they are charged by the State to pay for medical treatment. Then Eid doesn't have much money to develop further the provision to be able to treat patients in the local community, as the Cooperation Reform suggests. But maybe this is one of the strategies of the Minister of Health to turn the Nordfjordeid hospital into a medical center. Gradually, I understand the strategy of the Minister of Health, when she has forced through a structural change at the hospital in Nordfjordeid, from being a full and good local hospital to now becoming a medical centre. When the Ministry of Health claims that the travel time from Nordfjordeid to the hospital in Volda on the South Sunnmøre, after the new Kvivsweg is open, is no longer than 15 minutes, it shows how little knowledge about the geography of this area has the professional lease in the department. The real journey time from North fjord to Volda, after the Kvisveg is open, will be 45 minutes, not 15 minutes, and from the outer North fjord to the birth department of Volda will travel time at best two hours. Now I would say that the travel time from the outer Northfjord to the maternity ward within the same health care establishment will be four to five hours, while today it takes an hour from the outer Northfjord to the current food supply on Nordfjordeid which is now being laid down. It is not surprising that decisions will be taken on the centralisation of health services with the lack of knowledge of the bureaucracy and political guidance on District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1233	Today’s debate has used a lot of words to promote criticism of the government – against cows, waiting times and failure to respond to patient treatment. In particular, the cancer guarantee has been criticised – on a false basis. My point is that if you look at the alternative budgets – I have seen especially in the alternative budget of the Right – then the budget proposals have not been in line with the criticism that has been voiced, far from it. What has been proposed by the Right is negligible changes in the health budget. I said in my article earlier today that they were at approx. 1⁄2 pst., and the changes proposed, are essentially re-priorities within existing frameworks. It is proposed in the order of 350 million. kr to improve the efficiency of health businesses and 400 mills. It is good in itself if there was new money, but it is taking money from existing operations. Höie replied in his reply that it was to be taken from the somatic. The opposition then proposes a large-scale loan scheme to invest in ICT. You put at your disposal money that you can borrow. We know that if healthcare companies are going to borrow money, they have to pay for a balance, and it has to be taken away from business. Very much, perhaps most of what you're proposing, is to be taken out of operation. And what operation? Well, it's from the somatic, and it's from direct patient treatment. So if the Right and parts of the opposition's alternative budget proposals had been adopted here, it would have meant less money for operation, for somatics, less money for direct patient treatment, and less money to bring down the waiting times. That is the reality. It's especially the Right Budget I've been looking at, but it's also the other budgets. I disregard the Progress Party, which, in its substance, is actually proposing a requisition economy in the specialist health service. It does not provide more patient treatment in the long term; it provides poor quality. This is my conclusion after looking at the draft budget. Large words are used, but the alternative budgets are not at all in line with what is being carried out from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1250	We can all agree that we have challenges and deficiencies in our healthcare system, but I think we can also agree that some things are going forward. When the OECD comes up with numbers that show that we're climbing in terms of both quality and survival of diseases, that's a good thing, and I think we can all agree that it's going the right way. In that perspective, I think it is bold of the representative Listhaug – who has been responsible in that city with the biggest social health differences in Norway, who has been responsible for an elderly effort that has ended up with a useless land in Spain – to criticise the results that show that it is actually going forward, when she comments that the promise to Kommune-Norge has gone away in wages and pensions. Yeah, that's right. We have 19,000 more employees in the care sector in the municipalities, and it is clear that they will have wages and pensions. The quality and increase of care services mean that more hands are available. So she's absolutely right about that, but I don't understand that it should be negative. But that might explain the lack of care in Oslo City, because there aren't so many more hands here. Then I have to make a brief comment on what Listhaug also mentioned, that you are again trying to sell in that the government has provided a cancer guarantee. It has never been said that it was a guarantee. It was an ambitious goal of 80 pst. should be treated within 20 working days. That it will lead to the great criticism of the opposition that ambitious goals are being set within such an important theme, I am very surprised. After all, you would think that you would be more eager to get things going faster from the opposition. I could understand that, but that it should be wrong to set a target and make demands on healthcare companies that they should have better quality of cancer survival, I do not understand. I think it's a strange approach. Finally, in the case of the Right Alternative Budget and the ICT bet: the representative Höie replied that it was the same as the compensation scheme for the municipalities. No, that's not it. There is a big difference between lending to municipalities and lending to the state. The State cannot grant loans to itself without covering it over the line. If you do, you break with the intention of the Basic Law § 75 on the cash principle. You undermine the rule of action because then you get it back on a structural deficit, it increases, so you hide the dynamic effect of it. I think there's a big difference between giving loans to themselves from the state and giving loans to others, for example. municipalities and other countries. I want Höie to explain why this way of doing it doesn't put pressure on the economy when all the other things on the cost side do it. Because in that case, the whole of the Right’s reasoning is about competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1265	One of the areas in which the Right has been, and is, very concerned, is rehabilitation and rehabilitation. After all, a key point of the cooperation reform is to prevent more and repair less. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will be fully in line with such an objective. We are good at emergency medicine in Norway, and fortunately we are saving more and more people from heart attacks, strokes and traffic accidents. Most people get good help to survive, but once the blue lights are turned off, many get too little help to live on. It is well documented both from SINTEF and from the Health Authority that the training offer fails in many stages. This means lost opportunities for many people who become unnecessarily dependent on health care and social security benefits. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will help patients to master their everyday life and work. This is a good investment in quality of life for many people, while reducing the need for health care and social security benefits is a good social investment. For rehabilitation and rehabilitation, something is far more than medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We must have a life-cycle perspective. User involvement must be fundamental and individual objectives must guide the content of the process. Rehabilitation is too low a priority in municipalities today. That's well documented. The right considers that the professional neutral law adopted by the government parties here in Stortinget is not as strong as the current law, and we fear that this could lead to further depriorization of the rehabilitation field. For day-to-day training, the legal text has been deleted. However, in a rehabilitation process, this is so essential that it must be included in a regulatory attachment. I hope the Council of State can take that with me. Good rehabilitation requires interdisciplinaryity. Both physiotherapists and ergot therapists are important professionals. User involvement and individualised patient pathways are very important for patients with long-term rehabilitation needs. I would therefore strongly urge the Council of State to monitor closely how municipalities are now setting up their rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, and to ensure that they have the necessary multidisciplinary skills in their treatment team, so that we can get a good rehabilitation and rehabilitation for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1281	There is a great deal of agreement on the intention of the Cooperation Reform. However, the challenge, for which there is every reason to ask questions, is the pace of implementation of the reform. The needs and involvement of users must be a basic premise for the success of this important reform. The community health service is in many ways the foundation of healthcare. Therefore, the equivalency of the interaction between municipalities and health enterprises is a critical success factor for success. This equivalence is not adopted. It's being created. The pace of implementation strongly challenges this equivalence. It is related to the ability of municipalities and the ability to recruit critical competences in order to provide citizens with a qualitatively good range of services. In these days, municipalities are very busy setting up service agreements with health businesses within the very short time limits set by the government. This means that many municipalities must conclude binding service agreements without the necessary and critical competence being in place and without the necessary and important clarifications in e.g.: the definition of ready-to-print and so-called swing door spaces. It is also with great wonder and regret that I note that the need for the organisation of the public sector – including municipal structures – is downplayed as an important factor in the implementation of the cooperation reform. When Bjarne Håkon Hanssen launched the Cooperation Reform, the organisation of Kommune-Norge was an important factor in our success in the common goal of giving the citizens the best possible offer. I record with amazement that it is very much toned down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1292	Several representatives of the right have talked about how important it is to get more private commercial players into the health sector. It's got to sort of solve everything. This government employs private actors, both non-profit and commercial, but then as a complement and in agreement with the public in line with the needs of the health sector. But first of all, we strengthen patient treatment in public services and provide hospitals with clear quality objectives to achieve. This has led to a reduction in the waiting time of several health businesses, down to half the time for the treatment of multiple cancers, simply by looking at their own organisation and removing the bottlenecks. This has happened completely without any more money being added. I would probably go a little quietly in the doors if I was the Progress Party's Sylvi Listhaug. The commercialisation of nursing homes in Oslo under her responsibility has led to increased costs of care for the elderly in the city, leading to almost 400 fewer sick homes, and to the fact that those working in private commercial companies have had both poorer pay and working conditions and much worse retirement. In addition, we have had a lot of headlines in the press about how the privacy of users and patients in the care of elderly people in Oslo has partially melted up because the responsibility is powdered with as many providers as there, for example. are in home care. So to the representative Dale: No, there are no diseases that are lucrative, but then we shouldn't throw them into the ring of raw commercial players who are swapping these sufferings into dividends, and that makes them lucrative by the fact that the money goes right into the pockets of the owners who sit on Cayman Islands and Jersey and other tax havens. There is a poor use of health crowns for patients in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1301	I am surprised that the Councils of State and the Red-Green representatives want to create the impression that the opposition is opposed to the Cooperation Reform. Indeed, the conditions that they draw up after what is already under way in the cooperation reform are precisely what the opposition calls for us to need more, namely good projects that are being initiated locally. That's why Right, among other things. has proposed 350 million. kr more than the government of just this type of project. I also record that it is not one of the representatives of the government parties who has enthusiastically defended the part of the cooperation reform against which the opposition is voting, namely the municipal co-financing responsibility – the transfer of funds between hospitals and the municipalities of 5 billion. kr – which will lead to nothing but more bureaucracy, uncertainty for patients and challenges for municipalities. This pace was precisely what Jonni Helge Solsvik – one of the rapporteurs in Norway – spoke about. It is strange that the Council of State chooses such a line of confrontation from day one. The Council of State has not lifted a finger to try to reach a compromise with the opposition on such a major and important health reform. I think that the government council subsequently thinks is a pity, considering that 54 pst. the population of the country lives in municipalities where the rapporteur has the right and is now to carry out this reform. They will certainly set up and do what is possible, but I think one would have had a better starting point for this reform if the Council of State had put down some political work to get to a broader solution. So to the Right's alternative budget. The right alternative budget addresses what, not least, State Secretary Kåss has said, namely that the OECD report shows that we need to focus more on how the money is spent in health care. That's also what the Right is doing in its alternate budget. To the issues of the ICT funding mechanism, it is equal to the financial instrument in the municipal sector. There is no difference because health enterprises are also independent legal entities. This is a financing mechanism which, of course, could not be used if health enterprises were part of the administration. Then I would like to refer to the proposals that opposition parties are promoting in the Chamber today in connection with the cancer guarantee. Those proposals will provide the government with a real guarantee of cancer, give patients a legal right to receive treatment and thus allow Norwegian cancer patients to receive treatment within a time limit that is professionally recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1316	First, a comment on the Minister of Health's answer on ME instead, just to explain even further what it's all about. The problem is that Nav operates with a predicament, I would say, for this disease, while the health authorities must and can convince the Nav system that we in Norway now actually recognise ME as a serious disease, even though we do not know all about the disease. Some patients are among the sickest we have in this country, as researchers from Haukeland, fast doctors and others say. Then turn to ultrasound. The Council of the National Priority Council, i.e. the National Council for Quality and Priorities, which they joined yesterday, I will not call, as someone has said, a technical council. It's about equality, about some kind of rightstacking. Health Director Bjørn-Inge Larsen said the other day, that there has not been any health or health economic evidence that it is right to introduce routine ultrasound for week 12. This also makes it quite clear to the National Council for Quality and Prioritisation in what they came up with yesterday. They say that when someone can afford to buy this and do it on their own, in fact maybe 50 pst., they should basically get this offer within the public sector, even though it's not a professional advice. If that's how we're going to run the health sector, it's alarming that if anyone can afford to buy anything, they have to put it in public for everyone. I think it's a little special that you suggest it. At the same time, this is also a priority council, and they have chosen to do so. We have to deal with that. I hope the Health Minister will not follow this advice. I am pleased that the Minister of Health has a consensus conference, which, as far as I remember, the Right proposed in this Chamber for some time ago, and I think that is very good. I want to show that at early ultrasound, there are mainly fetuses with Down's syndrome that you discover. In my opinion, they have the same right to live as others. I would like to remind you of Marte Wexelsen Goksøhr, who in many ways gave a face to people with Down's syndrome when she was here in Stortinget and wore a t-shirt, where it was written: «The threat of extinction». She, standing in the middle of it, is strongly opposed to early ultrasound. Listen to that advice too, I want to recommend the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1327	Health debates are often about repair. That's not so nice. When disease strikes, we all have a strong desire to get treatment started, get healthy in the shortest possible time. The importance of prevention is understood by everyone, but it is often more difficult to prioritize because the results of the interventions come so long afterwards. With the Interaction Reform, we are trying to do something about this. The use of resources shall be reversed from large, costly ex-post repairs to more reasonable preventive measures prior to the onset of disease. Of course, costs are about money, but it is also possible to measure costs in terms of reduced quality of life and gains in terms of better quality of life if we move from the large numbers at macro level to experienced quality of life at individual level. This is really about this last health policy. We have studies that show that the quality of life experienced is unevenly distributed. Public health in the welfare community of Norway is well above good, but some groups systematically score higher than others on different health indicators. This means that others are systematically cutting lower. The Committee points out, for example: that different groups of migrants have partly poorer health than Norwegian-born migrants with two Norwegian parents, and refer to examples such as increased risk of obesity, obesity, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. Diabetes has been a topic of this debate. An overall committee refers to the Diabetes Association's commitment to minority health. I myself have been with the Diabetes Association at an information meeting for Somali women on Tøenen. There was a great deal of useful information on prevention among children and adults, on how to recognise symptoms early and the importance of diet and physical activity. The Diabetes Association was also associated with a Somali doctor in Norway, who provided valuable information in their own language. We must ensure that this work does not stop. That's basically my whole point: to ensure the Diabetes Association's continuity and long-termity in this important work. In fact, they can also provide a model for a new and systematic way of working prevention in close cooperation between central and local authorities and non-governmental organisations. If you're doing well, we have many up-to-date patient organisations that together can contribute to a new delivery in preventive health work, and that can give us the results we're striving for in the fight against social differences in terms of health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1340	First to Bent Höie – and the Reform of Cooperation – who challenged the Minister of Health that she had to take a talk with Right- Controlled Municipalities, of which there are many in this country. I can sign that the Minister of Health should take a talk with Right-Handed Municipalities, because I live in one myself. My experience with the Interaction Reform is that there are few municipalities that are so poor at planning for the Reform of Cooperation as the major urban municipalities, where the Right has multiples in many. They're not looking for planning agents from the local medical centre, they're saying no to an interaction project where one is going to get midwives to have an offer in the municipality. In range by region, a very small exposure is shown. One might wonder if it is because the Right also on the Storting has a lack of interest in the Reform of Cooperation, and it then drips on the local representatives. There have also been questions in this debate about the red-green bets on hospital treatment and whether we have too long waiting times. My point is that we also have to look at how many more patients we treat. We don't give priority to tax havens. From 2005 to 2012, we have run 10 billion. In hospital care for the treatment of patients. We have had 1.3 million more outlays and treatments in 2010 than in 2005. Another example is that the RHFs increase their budget from 2005 by 50 pst. There have been major upheavals in Health-Noreg since the red-green government took over. When waiting times are involved, they have decreased — not so much — from 75 days in 2010 to 73 days in 2011. At the same time, however, the number of new cases has increased by 7 pst, respectively. and 9 pst., so we've had more for treatment while waiting's on the way down. Finally, I would like to address what Mr. Geir-Ketil Hansen said about the opposition's alternative budget. The thing that the opposition, at least right, is good, is not to allow new funds, but it's a recycling of red-green health money where the ear tags billions that we give, to make your own policies visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1353	Just because there are health differences in Oslo, I am concerned about stopping the rage of the hospitals and the professional community that is now happening, and that the representative of Breen and his government stand for. It's the weakest who loses it. One can only look at developments in drug treatment in recent years, where queues have increased. Then I've learned to listen to people who don't know what they're talking about, and in that category comes both the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen and the representative Thomas Breen. When they talk about the elderly in Oslo, they show that they can’t do it very well. In recent years, the health coverage in Oslo has increased because of a decline in the population over 80 years. It is also the case that we have a higher coverage of hospitals than the national average, and for example. in red-green-steered Trondheim, who is also Norway champion in the crime and beats Adecco down in the boots. Then it's like the Home Office, which the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen was in, has actually had strong improvements. I would recommend that she read, among other things. the user survey. Employees have also pointed out that competition has led to self-improvement, and that is very positive. In the case of Oslo University Hospital, I have spent a lot of time calling for warnings. The same is true of Oslo, without anyone wanting to listen to us. Finally, I will hold a small course for the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen on how a market works: the size of a market depends on demand. It's like, if there's no demand, companies go bankrupt. If the market is controlled, it can, for example: become a lack of butter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1366	The next speaker is the representative Jon Georg Dale, then Elisabeth Aspaker – no, sorry, that's the representative Per Arne Olsen. I didn't mean to overlook, sir. Olsen, who thus gets the word – with the greatest joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1369	Thank you, President. It's the first time I've been confused with a vessel of 1.90 and with considerably fewer kilograms than myself. But I take it as a compliment! I take the floor because the red-green, and especially the representative of Breen, have repeatedly given a visit to the so-called cancer guarantee, and the opposition is going to have a hard time criticizing that the government has objectives. So that's not right. We haven't criticised the government for having goals at all. On the contrary, we are very happy that the government has objectives. What we are criticising is that it has been presented as a guarantee and thus tricked many patients in Norway who believed this. What we're criticising is that you don't also follow up your goals with tools. To take the guarantee piece first: there is no doubt that at its press conference, Stoltenberg said that one should be treated ‘within 20 days’ – this is a quote – and most people see it as a guarantee. The fact that the Health Council also used the word ‘guarantee’ in a television broadcast is also undeniable. They have repeatedly said that there is no guarantee. We've taken note of that. But what's been our appeal point is that there's a lot of patients out there who actually believed in it. So today you have the opportunity to follow up your goal of getting a decent cancer care. On the table today, we have four proposals from an overall opposition that will provide the guarantee of cancer – or the objective – with a real content, where patients’ rights are granted to achieve the objective in 20 days’ time, and how deviations from this are both to be justified in medical terms and to be recorded. So today, we have the opportunity to vote for the government to present a new national cancer plan during 2012. It should not be problematic as long as you have said that you have this goal. My call in the cancer field is to stop talking and start doing something. In fact, today there is an opportunity to vote on the opposition's overall proposal. In the end, I am one of those who react to the production that becomes the municipality of Oslo in the care of the elderly. It is true that the municipality of Oslo has a better coverage of hospitals than the average in Norway. They have better coverage than comparable large municipalities – mainly red-green-strapped Trondheim, which is a sink – and they have better toy coverage in hospitals. I could still do that. The picture is not correct, even though Breen repeats it to the boring one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1382	The government party asserts that they do not give priority to health over tax havens. Then it's a paradox that a collective opposition thing to spend more money in the health field than the government does, despite significant tax breaks in the proposals they have. Likewise, it becomes almost paradoxical when the Workers' Party's new CEO Tove Karoline Knut calls all private health actors raw capitalists. So in this country, most people who work in this sector, and who want to work there if there are more people, are people who work in today, for example. health services, but they do not get a full job break. I thought that was a situation that the Labour Party could understand. In addition, Tove Karoline Knutsen spoke about the opposition talking down the health service today. We really don't. In fact, we say that we appreciate both the public contributions and the private contributions. They're in the Labour Party, who says that only those who have a public employer are used to providing good health services. I'd like to admit that if it costs a thousand dollars to treat a cancer patient a little faster, so that we don't go crazy, that patient treatment gets better, that it happens faster, and that the certainty that a person is more closed, I'd like to pay – I'd like to pay for it. The difference between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party in this Chamber is clear and clear for every time Tove Karoline Knutsen has the word. They're the people who put patients in focus, and the people who defend everything that exists, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1395	The right is concerned with an equivalent provision of health throughout the country, and the fact that the treatment deadlines laid down by the law are not to be seen as indicative, but as a right for the patient to be complied with. In Northern Norway, children, who are to be a priority group, are now experiencing an increasing need to wait for investigation and treatment in the paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. Children are a particularly vulnerable group, also because their mental health problems can have major negative consequences for schooling, if they do not get help in time. When I mention the development in Health North in this field, it is because there have been changes in the psychiatric treatment offer that may indicate that the capacity has become too low. Only in September, treatment institutions in Health Nord broke the law to provide children and young people with psychiatric assistance in time hundreds of times — a hundred times. This is alarming, and new figures from the Norwegian patient register show that deadlines are increasing and that children are waiting longer than adults. North Norway’s most populous region, North North and South Troms, is one of the few regions that today do not have access to air ambulances within a reasonable time. Weather conditions in the part of the country make it not obvious that helicopters from Tromsø or Bodø can carry out a mission, and the capacity here is also limited. This is the background to the call for the establishment of a new air ambulance in this region, located at Harstad, where one can achieve exciting synergies in cooperation with other helicopters currently established. In the past, the Health and Care Committee has gathered on comments that centralisation and decentralisation of treatment provision, demographic development and improved rapid diagnosis and treatment options for an increasing number of disorders could increase demand for both air ambulance services and other ambulance services. Long distances to the hospital make helicopter important when the patient needs prompt assistance from competent health professionals who can diagnose and start treatment before the patient arrives in a hospital. In the past, the Health Committee has pointed out that regional health businesses need to continuously assess the need to increase air ambulance service capacity. However, local politicians and the population of the People's Republic of the North and South Troms are impatient and are now calling for initiatives from the government in this matter. The region does not experience an equivalent health offer when it says that life and helicopter are not recovering. The Health Minister has previously referred to Health Nord, but this is about the state having to take responsibility for the whole country being covered by helicopter ambulances and not only those parts of the country that happened to have such an offer when the state assumed responsibility for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1417	Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1420	The government parties are now trying to present it as that the Right is against the Reform of Cooperation, but let me remind you a little about the story. In 2003, the Wisløff Commission put down precisely because they saw the challenges around a bit and shared health care. In 2005, they gave up their position, and the right was well in the process of preparing proposals for a reform. But then there was a government change, and then the state council came Brustad in the chair. And what did she do? Well, she put the whole reform in the drawer, and there it lay for three years until there was a new government council, Hanssen. He then launched this as a new reform, and all credit to him for it, for that we had been waiting for. But there were many lost years for both healthcare and patients. We agree with the intentions, we agree with the objectives, and that is a completely necessary reform, but we have a slightly different view of the instruments. That's what's the truth. And a little bit more honesty from the government parties is expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1427	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1430	As a chief ideologist to the representative Dale, it's good that there's a difference between the Labour Party and the Advance Party, and it's good to be able to show it today. No, those who work in the health sector are not raw and commercial, but we've gotten more and more players who are, and they're competing with the small entrepreneurs, and they're competing with the volunteers. So to the representative of Listhaug in Oslo, we're still hearing about elderly patients who don't get help. She doesn't get away from the fact that there are 400 fewer hospitals. She will not comment on this either with the privacy that has been posted on several occasions. I understand your market that if a commercial, raw actor is to make $35 million. kr in a medium-sized nursing home in Oslo during a tendering period must be taken from a place. Then it must be taken from the salary and the pension of those who work there. That is why the market does not fit into this sector to deal with the very weakest and most vulnerable among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1439	I registered instead that the representative Kjersti Toppe made a point that there were many right-wing rapporteurs who were not concerned with the implementation of the cooperation reform. Now I know a lot of both right-wing rapporteurs and other rapporteurs from all parties, and I can assure you that everyone, without exception, is concerned about the pace of the implementation of the cooperation reform, and about the equivalence between the municipalities and health businesses in the course of implementation, among other things. an overall KS in a number of contexts has been identified. So it's about us being dedicated to giving our citizens a good offer, and we want to interact under equivalent conditions with health companies in order to implement what we all think is a very important and correct reform. Why is it that you do not choose to listen to the local authorities' commitment to implementation and pace? We have not received a good answer to that. It should be in the interest of all of us to ensure a good and safe implementation, thus ensuring the good result that we are all concerned with. We have experience from other major state reforms, right reforms, which, precisely because of the pace, have stumbled along the way and created the impression that the reform might not have been as good as the intention. We should learn from this and not do the same in connection with the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1448	The debate is coming to an end. I want to make some comments. First, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee for the good and equal management of the Committee's work on the suspension. I also want to review what the representative, Höie, said at the beginning of his speech, where he said that he was optimistic about the future because there would be innovations. I agree. It is an experience that there are often new developments, new innovation and new research advances that make it possible for us to move on and build healthcare even better. Looking at 20 years ahead in time, I think the most important research world out there is getting a breakthrough in dementia. We're all getting older and older. Then more and more of us are going to have to struggle with dementia. A breakthrough in diagnostics or treatment of dementia is going to be what we need. The Health Policy Spokesman of the Advance Party, Per Arne Olsen, had a good impression of his intervention. He stated that Norway ‘indisputable’ has one of the world’s best health services. I think that was well said. I also think the adjective ‘indisputable’ was exceptionally well-chosen, and I would recommend that this incidence be repeated frequently. The representative Olsen added that our mission now is to do what's good, even better. I still fully agree: therefore, the cooperation reform – therefore now no break button. In the line change with Kjersti Toppe, the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn developed the line change into a short variant of a medical doctoral dissertation. It is unclear whether this would create health through mood, or whether it was a subtle biochemical argument that fruit is sugar. In that case, we have some difficult debates ahead of us. But I am more concerned when the representative Jon Hunter Gåssvatn states that health cannot be subject to budgetary requirements. I agree that it is tempting as a health politician to say that health is too important to budget. I can even become popular with it. But today I am a health politician. Tomorrow I might be a school politician. Schools are the most important thing we do for the future; it is too important to have budgetary requirements. On Wednesday, I might be a research politician. Well, the research is too important. Maybe we'll solve dementia's mystery. We only need $100 billion. kr. On Thursday I may be concerned about the situation of child protection. We cannot have budgetary requirements there. On Friday, I'm a social security politician. No, we have to keep an order in the house. We have historically low leave – there is a lot of health in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1461	The representative Thomas Breen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1464	I have to take the opportunity to thank you for my first health debate. I think it's been an exciting debate. The reason I now took the floor was because the representative Dale is trying to question whether we are in favour of or against the private actors. Of course, we are for the private actors as a complement to public health. In a number of areas of health care, there is a considerable amount of private — and especially private — ideals within the drug field. Here, for a long time, the Workers' Party and the other government parties have had good relations. But the point is that if you take money from the public budget to buy private services, it is part of a centralization, where you take money from hospitals out in the districts to move them into where they are private, and that's usually close to the city. It is a problem that we should discuss. Another problem is that if you split the health supply too much, you don't get enough strength in the professional community to develop new technologies, new methods and introduce new quality. It is clear that there is a cost-benefit analysis and a performance analysis in that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1473	The greatest joy you can have, that's to make others happy – was one who said. I'm not so sure if we've made the opposition so much happier today, but I think at least Are Health's posts were very good, and I was happy when I heard it. Important areas of activity in 2012: this budget spends 1.4 billion. more for hospital treatment next year, which will provide new patients with better treatment in the coming year. We have granted investment loans to regional health companies, including: to the conversion process here in the capital and not least to the University Hospital Nord-Norway, UNN. We've also spent 270 million. SEK to care plan 2015 – that is 120 million. kr to build 1500 new lucky day spaces. But it is not the Stortinget and the Council of State that build this – it must of course be in cooperation with the municipalities and local politicians. We're going to get 150 million. kr to day offer for dents. We have an interaction reform where we spend 150 million. kr more in 2012 – i.e. SEK 740 million. kr to strengthen interaction. Interaction must be a wild policy, not just for government and big business, but it must also be a misguided policy of the Right-Rapporteurs of the municipalities mentioned by Bent Höie. We see that in the municipalities where we have been working on this since the Reform of Interaction, we have come a long way. It will produce positive results for those living in these municipalities. We're strengthening the budget by 137 million. dental health – this is the case with the social welfare system of the people. We're going to spend 21 million dollars. to strengthen the reimbursement of medicinal products. It's about smoothing social health differences. The Progress Party said that Trondheim was the first town with full kindergarten coverage, a municipality that has invested in school development, and a municipality that also has full hospital coverage. To Sylvi Listhaug's presentation that it is also the municipality that has the biggest breaches in terms of the Labour Inspectorate: the municipality has at least sat in the driver's seat and wants a review of all the institutions in the municipality. But it is clear that if you have a municipality that builds down 400 places, then there will be little medical coverage, then there will be little supervision, etc. So this is about using the investment frameworks and the means of interaction to build good health care. We also see that the right in its alternative budget will spend 350 million. kr more for the purchase of private health services. Where is the money to be taken? Yes, they are to be taken through the conversion measures of healthcare companies, take away from the public that is struggling every day, and spend it on the purchase of private services, instead of the fact that health businesses themselves can use the money to improve their services for patients – and not least those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1484	It has been tried to create the impression that we are not using private health services in Norway. That's wrong. I also want to say that we are now building up the offer of ablation treatment at the major hospitals, and we are also using the Feiring Clinic as an additional offer. The representative Sjøli mentioned habilitation and rehabilitation as a very important part of healthcare in the future. I fully agree with that. In all parts of healthcare, including habilitation and rehabilitation, there is growth in the budget for next year. It is also the case that we are working on a code on how to have habilitation in the specialist health service and in the community health service – and cooperated on it. Fortunately, many municipalities, not least Trondheim, have been particularly skilled in providing an offer for rehabilitation for their patients – actually to position themselves in advance in relation to the cooperation reform. In the case of drug treatment, 60 pst is. private – many ideals. In the major hospitals, in both Oslo and Bergen, we have non-profit institutions operating in hospitals, which for all practical purposes are part of the public health system, and which we regard as being so. They are very important within our treatment. So to the interaction reform: I fully agree that it is important that there is an equivalence between the municipalities and the hospitals. The representative, Höie, says that the right has spent $300 million. So we've moved in over 5 billion. kr. It's actually pretty important to do that. For a change to be made, it is also about taking responsibility, taking responsibility and exercising responsibility in cooperation with hospitals, otherwise there will be no equivalence. Co-financing is important, it is important to take responsibility for the ready-to-print patients, and it is important that the municipalities that have the opportunity to do so build up island aid facilities. But then I would like to say that if the municipalities fail to do this from 1 January, it is the agreement with the hospitals that makes you have a good transition and a build-up of the offer in the municipality in relation to the hospital. The first part of these agreements is that you work hard to get in place, so you should be in position until 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1497	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding: the undersigned is no longer a health agency in Oslo. Then to the representative of Asphjell. It is true that Oslo has higher medical coverage and higher hospital coverage than Trondheim. If the representative is in doubt about that, I would recommend him to go into KOSTRA and compare the two municipalities. Then it's a little funny that the Progress Party is a hot defender of the Right-Left-KrF Town Council in Oslo. So to the representative Knutsen, who is concerned about how the private people treat employees. Then I think the representative should start to care about how employees are treated at Oslo University Hospital. They are not taken seriously, there is a downtime process, which means that one should remove 1000 annual works, despite employees jumping off their legs. Had it been a private company that treated its employees as they do in Oslo University Hospital, probably the chief silkologist Knutsen would have found his ideology, and then it's about taking employees seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1514	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1517	There have been some comments on whether the Right is in favour of or against the Reform of Cooperation. Right is correct for the intentions, but not the means. I want to take an example of what I am responding to. It's the resistance of ready-to- print patients, who have been mentioned in the media, where the Right problematifies that no definition has been made, and they seem very critical for it to be introduced from New Year's Eve. My point is that'ready-to-write patients' is something that Right has been with and created – after what I think, it was right in government that made it shift from the patient being processed to being ready-to-write. At that time they did this without following a crown to the municipalities. Now we sneak in the deadline, from day eight to day one, and the money comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1524	In his first post today, Thomas Breen said that the government parties are ‘tolerating well’ that the opposition is not satisfied with the grips the government is doing in relation to the Cooperation Reform. He underlined the concept of "tolerating well" the disagreement up to several times. I think it is sad when we are faced with such a significant reform as the Interaction Reform. On the opposition side, we promoted a proposal to ‘focus on individuals’ and launched 41 proposals with which we went to the government parties, without meeting any willingness to sit down and look at them together. I think that is an Achilles heel for the entire Cooperation Reform, and I see that the government parties have now awakened from part of what was originally intended in the Cooperation Reform. It has now become just an economic reform, a division of tasks to try to save money. The right-hand rapporteur, who is present in the Chamber today, says that the concept of municipal structure is toned down, but I want to say that it's actually completely gone. It was as a pre-requisite in Bjarne Håkon Hanssen’s time that a population base of 35,000 was needed as a minimum uptake area to obtain good quality treatment and to recruit and retain qualified personnel. That whole focus is gone, and I also think that there will be some of the limiting factors in order to get a success reform. Then I notice that the government parties are very concerned about – again – that the opposition “speaks down” – the health service, it is now called. I heard the same thing when I was in the church, education and research committee last time. When we pointed out shortcomings and things in school, we talked down the school. I'm going to be the first to say that I'm not interested in talking down the healthcare system. I have worked 30 years in the health care system myself, and I know that a flap on my shoulder is better than a kick in the back, although there are only a few spinal cords in between. But in my 30 years in Norwegian health care I have experienced so many kicks in the back and so many blows in the face and so many broken election vows from the Workers' Party. That's why I'm standing here today, because it sparked my political commitment. I believe that it will be a derailment of the debate to try to say that we are attacking those who work in the healthcare system. What happens, among other things, in the Oslo hospitals today, health professionals are desperate because they cannot be able to exercise their profession satisfactorily, they go home crying from work several places because they feel that they have not been able to provide satisfactory care and treatment. It's not because of the opposition, it's because of the system there's something wrong with, and that's what the system we want to change. So finally to Are Health, who says there shouldn't be a budget requirement when I'm talking about ISF. Of course, there must be budgetary requirements. But in the entire ISF bit, there's some kind of price. I thought Are Health as former head of the Fürst excellently knew what was in it. That means you actually get paid for what you do. Then it means that when you trigger something, you also have to get an extra compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1535	Nearly 800,000 Northmen have rheumatic musculoskeletal and skeletal plagues. Many of these are unfit for work, but could have been in work if they had received early diagnosis, necessary treatment, rehabilitation and training. Whole patient courses in a life-cycle perspective are of great importance. The Government Party's ambition is to reduce waiting times and the proportion of deadline breaks. The reality is that many scratches around the country feel that they are being down-prioritised in the specialist health service. Report from the Health Directorate on waiting times and patient rights 2. tertiary 2011 shows that there are 274 337 patients in line in the specialist healthcare service. There are feedbacks that patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis are shifting from six to eight months for follow-up consultation. As of October 2011, there was 100 weeks waiting time for Revmatological Investigation at Martina Hansen's Hospital in Akershus, 72 weeks waiting time at Bethany Hospital in Skien, and one can only continue to list up. If the government parties had shown a willingness to reduce waiting lists and a short cut in waiting times, they had taken into account the recordings made by the Progress Party together with the Right and Christian People's Party in relation to the use of free capacity in the private and non-profit sector and the free capacity abroad. Government parties should understand that it is appropriate to take the variation in patient mass by using private providers, contract specialists and making use of free capacity abroad. Government parties are very much talking about how important it is for patients with rheumatic disorders, psoriasis, sensitising after polymyelitis, atopic eczema, asthma and other lung diseases to have offers of treatment trips abroad. What one records is that the number of travellers decreased in 2011, according to figures from the State treatment travel section. There was a decrease of 74 adults, and there were 28 fewer children. Unfortunately, the trend continues in 2012 by not opening up the state budget to an increase in the number of treatment trips forrevmaticians. The consequence of fewerrevmatics being granted travel may be more medical messages and possible involuntary inadequacies. The progression party believes it is unacceptable when chronically ill patients experience poorer health because they are down-prioritised and are far behind in the treatment queue. It is a double standard when government parties, on the one hand, use large words as an increased commitment to prevention and earlier and faster treatment and, on the other hand, allow the use of free capacity by private and voluntary actors. When ideology is stronger than the consideration of individuals, it is the weakest who suffer. Government Parties should take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1550	I want to give a message of concern about the conditions of safe food supply – i.e. the birth offer. The Health Directorate has developed a manual, a starting point called ‘A safe food supply’, on behalf of the Stortinget. True food supply was adopted in 2010 and provides detailed requirements for the quality of the birth offering. It makes it visible the selection of births to the different levels, i.e. maternity, maternity or female clinics, staffing requirements for doctors and midwives, multi-disciplinary geographical services, system requirements and requirements in relation to documentation, empowerment, information and rights of patients. The supervisor is strongly anchored in the professional environments and user organisations. It provides clear quality-enhancing requirements and provides a detailed description of the level of risk-avoidance to be referred to for redemption. Risk-bearing is mainly to be redeemed in women’s clinic. I have received several concerns about this. There are concerns and increasing number of concerns from the clinics. Regional health firms have chosen to postpone the implementation of women’s clinics in many places, and in several places there is a limited number of food establishments that meet the requirements of the new supervisor. For the Hospital Inland, my own area, the situation is also that the capacity is in principle there. Manning available. What is needed to establish a women’s clinic are very limited additional costs and marginal enhancements related to watchkeeping and administrative arrangements. Nevertheless, it drains out to get this in place. It is linked to long-term planning and positioning of individual hospitals in the hospital. In other words, local disputes in the countryside stand in the way of getting a good offer to the natives. It shouldn't be like that. When we are also informed that other regional health companies are leaving out the implementation of the requirements of a safe birth offer, it seems to me that it must be a political task to ensure that this is done. Having a safe birth offer is one of the most important things we can imagine in health care. This is linked to the sense of security. Then this has to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1561	Bent Höie has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1564	I just need to clarify some misunderstandings about the views of the Right and the Opposition on the Reform of Cooperation. Because it's not, as Kjersti Toppe tried to give the impression, so the opposition is against the municipal payments scheme for patients who are ready to print. On the contrary, it is something to which the Storting has joined unanimously. The difference is what the representative Jonni Helge Solsvik mentioned in his statement, namely the contractual relationship between the hospitals and the municipalities. It surprises me that the Central Party, which has the tradition of being a municipal party, does not see that there is a bias in the power relationship between the health companies and the municipalities, and that they do not support the opposition's proposal that the municipalities voluntarily enter into agreements with the hospitals before the obligation to pay. With that proposal, the power relationship would be completely different from that of the government, where the municipalities are forced to conclude agreements and are the only party that will lose money if such an agreement is not concluded. Then I'm going to refer to what the Health Minister said about 5 billion. kr. The Minister of Health himself has said that the municipalities cannot use this for anything but to pay for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1571	I can assure you that neither I nor the government have strayed from the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. We are equally concerned about what we have been doing in all the years we have spent money – year after year – so that municipalities could seek funding for projects and position themselves to be ready when the reform was launched. Many have done so. That's why we have a lot of pilots. That is why we also have experience in many projects, in fact throughout the country. Then I very much agree that there must be an equivalence between the hospitals and the municipalities. In some contexts the municipalities want to cooperate; then they do. That's good, because you can't do the same in a small municipality as in a large municipality – or if you work together. But now the geography in Norway is that if you never cooperate so much, it will be long distances anyway. This has also been a debate in which the position has been accused of painting and painting the health care system and – I kept saying – the vice versa. But I don't have to stand and paint anything. It's actually – or ‘indisputable’, as Are Health said, that's a good word – so we score pretty well in some areas. We should be happy about that, because we are privileged in this country. But there is no doubt that there are things we can get better at either. That is why the government has put quality, patient safety and lead times so firmly on the agenda. The last thing we're going to discuss later today, so I guess we'll come back to that. This is important. It is important for patients in Norway. It's important that they know that when they get to the hospital, they're safely taken care of, and that when something goes wrong, you do everything you can to avoid it happening again. Then we'll have to work on the waiting times. That's why we've got a lot of people in line. The point is how long they're in line. Therefore, it has been important for the government to bring down the waiting times. That's something we're really going to work on, and get to, because it's also a very important part of the quality work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1584	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1217]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1600	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1609	First of all, I would like to thank my former committee colleagues, for in this matter, it has really been a very cooperative and co-consensual committee. I would also like to thank the Left, who has not quite played an immaterial role in supporting the proposal under consideration by the Committee. Through the setting, we provide two clear and important leadership to improve the situation of people with developmental disabilities. We will have a comprehensive investigation assessing the results of the 1991 responsibilities reform and the living conditions of those with disabilities and – I stress this – their relatives as well, and that, in the light of this, measures should be considered to improve the living conditions of those with disabilities. In particular, we believe that it is important to assess the situation related to housing, work, leisure and health, and stress that participation by the developing population's own organisations in the work on this investigation is necessary for a successful outcome. We're not asking for any NO; it's very time consuming. We want a good job, but we don't want it to be spent more time than necessary. An important part of such an investigation will be the housing situation. I believe that is the second main message from the setting in this case. When we stress that the objectives of the reform are firm and that one of the objectives of the reform was to phase out institutional care, we need to raise the index when we see that there is an increasing number of large housing communities being built. To what extent housing solutions appear to be institutionally similar, there is much about building, how many live in the same community, and how housing communities are designed. But not only that: how services are arranged, whether they are individual versus collective, is also very central. Our task, no matter what level of government we are at, is to facilitate the possibility for those with developmental disabilities to live as marine life as possible. Then, like everyone else, the less developed must be able to choose who they want to live with. A unanimous committee is clear that construction projects which clearly deviate from the intention of the responsibilities reform should not be supported by the Husbank. To turn it around: I hope there are not many people who believe that the state should actually support projects that clearly deviate from the purpose of a reform that is a global expansion, both in 1991 and today. I am pleased that both the Minister of State, who is responsible for the House Bank's activities, and the Minister of Health have pointed out the challenges that lie here, and are committed to doing something about it. I assume that the Committee's clear signals are followed up as quickly as possible. A clear objective of the reform of responsibility is that, as far as possible, those with disabilities should have the same living conditions and the same freedom of choice as others. I have said a lot about housing; more knowledge about it will also be provided through the investigation we are asking for. However, the Committee is also concerned about the use of medicinal products for mental disorders for people with developmental disabilities. We are also concerned that leisure services are being illuminated and improved. Work for all shall also apply to persons with reduced development. Many more people with less development than we see today can be at work, and so also be a resource for society in value creation. Lack of job opportunities is in many ways a social barrier. It doesn't have to be like this. We all know what work means for participation in the social community, for the feeling of mastering, and much more – and also to be able to come home after a working day or a working week and relax. Often, the need for services is also reduced. Very well has happened as a result of the responsibility reform. I could spend a lot of time saying something about it, but the most important thing now is to fix what is not good enough, or that goes in the wrong direction. Then we need to use all the knowledge and experience that exists and that users, service providers and others have. We're going to take lessons from the good projects that are being carried out and that are in progress, and there are many of them. When the full investigation is available, considering what measures are needed, I think that we have a very good basis for doing what is necessary to really achieve the intentions, as we want with the 20-year reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1632	First, I would like to thank the Left, who put the matter on the agenda. Thank you, too, to the President-in-Office. Even though Tore Hagebakken, according to my father, comes from the "ghost" side of Mjösa, he has shown in this case, despite the handicap, that he has some reason to keep. The handling of the matter started in the usual way, with us writing our respective party comments, but the rapporteur quickly decided that he wanted us to try to get something we could all agree on. He shared the intention of the Progress Party and supported the proposal for an evaluation of the responsibilities reform. The goodwill also came to light by using essential parts of the comments of the Progress Party and the other opposition parties in the common text. In my six years on the Grand Council with a majority government, such an approach unfortunately belongs to the rarest units – which I think is sad. In my opinion, it is in the breakup between the different opinions that one can find the good solutions that can last over time. Major changes, changes and measures that do not have a broad political majority behind them do not, in my view, have the same chance of success. In this case, it is about evaluating a significant change – a reform that took place 20 years ago. In private, changes happen all the time. It is evaluated, and efforts are being made to further strengthen what is good, and what is bad, needs to be replaced with something better, while major changes in the general public tend to take the form of reforms, almost as shippers, at intervals of 10-15 years. The problem is that often a lack of basic data and an overview of the activities initially, and that the reform is not followed up with evaluation and research to identify whether the intention has been achieved and to identify good and bad aspects of the transformation work that has been done. Regrettably, responsibility reform is taking place in this row. The progress party was sceptical about the HVPU reform initially. Our representatives said that many people with mental retardation could be isolated and lonely, and that the municipal habilitation service was not able to provide a good enough offer to all users. In 1985, the Lossius Committee stated that: ‘The committee cannot see that the HVPU has competence which does not exist or can be built up within the usual local authorities.’ Unfortunately, there are several indications that the habilitation service and the interaction between specialist health services and municipal health services do not function satisfactorily for this target population, even 20 years after the reform came into force. It is clear that there is a significant need to identify the reasons for this, not least in the light of the changes that will now also come about as a result of the Interaction Reform. It's worth noting that it's only approx. 13 year-olds in neurology and 10 year-olds in psychiatry linked to habilitation on a national basis. These annual works are again broken down into small part-time jobs. This is not a good situation when we know that the target population for habilitation services has complex and complex conditions, and that mentally impaired people tend to need more time with them than with an average space, as they are often more difficult to diagnose and treat. The Progress Party is therefore concerned that we need to focus more on building a well-functioning habilitation service. It is also worth noting the developments that are taking place in Municipality-Norway, and the housing solutions that are being chosen. The Minister of Local Affairs in Somfunn for All, No. 5 2011, a strong resistance to the trend towards large-scale housing. She expresses concern at the re-institutionalisation that is taking place. In the previous issue of the same journal, Professor Karl Grunewald in Sweden expresses great concern about the development of care services in Norway. Reference is made to the fact that in Norway and Sweden, the basis for the large-scale reduction of institutional care was the same. Grunewald explains why Sweden has not experienced such institutionalisation as Norway, with a clear Swedish law. It is also worth noting that during these 20 years, health surveillance has had only two nationwide supervision of the housing communities of mentally retarded persons in relation to the use of coercion and power. There were offences in three out of four housing companies. Heavy medication, which has led to deaths, and extensive mismedication, as well as the lack of professionally qualified personnel to deal with the health situation of mental retarders, seems to be the case. This is not acceptable. 20 years ago, the big thing was that people with mental retardation should have the same right as others to live an active and independent life. We have to figure out why this good intention is not followed up in practice. That is why we agree on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1659	First, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs from the Left to put the situation of mental retardation on the agenda, and also to the rapporteur, who has presented the Committee's position in an excellent way, and to the job he has done in order to achieve a precisely unanimous position. The responsibilities reform was adopted in 1991, and we would like to stress that the objectives of the responsibilities reform must be set. It is reassuring that a unanimous committee, as has been said, is behind the vote. One of the objectives of the responsibilities reform was to end institutional care and to ensure that as far as possible, those with disabilities should be entitled to the same living conditions and freedom of choice as others. Although many live an active and independent life, according to the recent living conditions survey, there are several factors that give rise to concern. The situation of many people with developmental disabilities is not satisfactory. In September 2008, the State Council for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities organised a consultation conference on the living conditions of people with disabilities and delivered a report with seven recommendations to the government to correct the current situation and ensure the fundamental objectives of the responsibilities reform. They proposed to set up a public body to review the life situation, living conditions and services of people with disabilities, as set out in the proposal. In addition, they proposed that measures be promoted to discourage increased segregation and large co-locations in housing for people with developmental disabilities. They also felt that special attention had to be paid to the use of small job breaks in municipalities and that skills had to be increased at all service levels. They also proposed that it be clarified in legislation and legislation that services should be provided on an individual basis and not connected to housing. They also proposed that a study be carried out on the use of segregated services at school and a review of the school's follow-up of developmentally impaired students, and that the competence of Nav and the school advisory service be strengthened. Finally, they proposed that the possibility of active leisure should become a reality and that accompanying evidence should become a national scheme. These are good and wise proposals that need to be addressed in such an investigation as the Stortinget is now asking for. Last week I read a thought-provoking chronicle in the Evening Post; it was called The Weakest of Nils Olav Anonsen. He shows, among other things: to provide specialist health services for the target groups for rehabilitation — mental retardation, early brain damage, mental retardation with epilepsy and other neurological sequelae, autism, etc. – requires interdisciplinary and patientness. These patients have complex and complex conditions. They shall be referred, inter alia, to: for the investigation of causality, degree of disability, investigation of autism-spectrum disorders and psychiatric and neurological disorders requiring multidisciplinary specialised investigation. He shows that today it is approx. 13 years of neurology related to adult habilitation. Only well half of these are fixed full-time positions, this despite the fact that the most serious neurological disability is just in this group. It's e.g. more than 10000 mentally impaired people with epilepsy. These patients are difficult both to investigate and to treat and are far from being neglected. Psychiatric disorders in this group occur more than twice as frequently as in the normal population. About 15 000 people with developmental disabilities suffer from mental illness. He believes that the result of the lack of qualified personnel leads to these patients being underdiagnosed and mistreated. This is serious. He asks the supervisory authority why they have not been interested in this. He does not believe that reporting procedures ask for the integrity and viability of small multidisciplinary environments, nor for deadlines and waiting times. The content of this chronicle about the health provision of this group made a strong impression, and I also want to ask the Minister of Health to ensure that this area is followed up by the supervisory authorities. I believe that this is necessary in order to identify the situation and the need for an additional effort to ensure that this group provides a sound health service. The right heart supports the implementation of a comprehensive investigation that assesses the results of the responsibilities reform and the living conditions situation for both users and relatives, and in view of this, assesses measures to improve the situation in life, and I look forward to the subsequent treatment of the Storting. I would like to underline the need to look at the health services provided by this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1685	I ask for the floor to also give my honor to the Left, who has raised the matter, and to the President-in-Office, who has contributed to a unanimous committee position. It is now 20 years since the adoption of the responsibilities reform, and the special care for mental retardation was discontinued. Since then, we have closed down the special institutions, and there has been a broad consensus on the goal of free and independent life for all people. This objective of this policy is still in place. Now, however, we've got a development, not for everyone, but for some, where more and more worried voices report. In the case of dwellings, no alternative options are reported. We have developed in some municipalities where larger and larger housing units are built, not for four-five, but for 20-30. That was not the goal. Then we're approaching new institutions. It is also reported from some municipalities that more and more people with developmental disabilities lack jobs, offer of work, and for some also good daily services. It's a development that worries and we have to take on the deepest seriousness. So we have to make sure that everyone in society has free and independent, meaningful lives that were and are the aim of the policy in this area. The Dag Olav case in Stavanger is a type of case that gives cause for concern. Day Olav was taken away from an area he had got – an area on which he was to build a house – because he was a developmental home. That kind of thing suggests that somewhere human dignity isn't taken seriously, and not everyone is given equal opportunities. That is why I am so pleased that we have reached a unanimous position that a comprehensive investigation should now be carried out. We're going to look at the living conditions situation, both for the people involved, and not least for their relatives. We need to assess what measures are needed to improve living conditions. It is particularly important for us to agree to give attention to the development of people with disabilities — their situation — and opportunities for housing, employment, leisure and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1696	The reform of the health care system for mental retardation, also known as the ‘HVPU reform’ or the ‘Reform of Responsibilities’, was adopted in 1991, and a joint committee today underlines that the objectives of the reform are firm. As far as possible, the developmental disability shall be entitled to the same living conditions and freedom of choice as others. We stress that people with developmental disabilities have the right to live active and independent lives, and that there are obligations in the reform. Cross-politically, we point out that living conditions for the developing world must be improved in many municipalities. In many municipalities, we have seen that there is a tendency to build more and more care centers. Therefore, the housing situation needs to be closely monitored in order to prevent trends in the reversal of the reform. We refer in the setting to what was the policy and minimum requirements for the Husbank's assessments of housing for people with mental retardation when the reform was introduced. Another important area is the quality and competence of services. In particular, stories about people with mental retardation who have been subjected to mismedication – over-medication – that seem to have not been for the benefit of the users. Knowledge and control of drug use in people with mental retardation and such high levels of drug use must be a central focus of the years to come. Similarly, it is worrying that the State Health Authority has uncovered widespread use of illegal coercion and power. Lack of activity and lack of health services for people with mental retardation are also a reality in many places. I am very pleased that a joint committee now believes it is essential that action is taken to ensure that the intentions of responsible reform are followed up. Both the Swedish Council for the Equality of Persons with Disabilities and the Norwegian Association for the Development of People with Disabilities have supported the establishment of a new public selection to review the life situation, lifestyle and services of the developing world. The Committee therefore supports the intention behind it and the need to implement a holistic approach that assesses the outcome of the living conditions situation for users and relatives. The aim must be to arrive at measures that improve the situation and the living conditions of this group. So the centre party is happy to be at the cross-political gathering that has been in this matter. Thank you very much to the proposers and, not least, to the case spokesperson Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1711	I am very pleased that the Left has promoted this Amendment No 8. At the same time, I would like to commend the government fraction of the Health and Care Committee for the work they have put into this matter and for good cooperation. This means, as many have pointed out, that the Committee unanimously believes that a comprehensive investigation needs to be carried out and that it is particularly important to assess the situation relating to housing, work, leisure and health in the light of the responsibilities reform. Let me take a few examples from the last few weeks that clearly demonstrate the need for this investigation and that I believe it should be carried out as quickly as possible. On 26 November, the NRK Rogaland had a notice of an increase in coercion use in housing. They indicated that the use of coercive measures against people with developmental disabilities is much more common than previously known. They also said that, according to the Health Inspectorate, increased investment in reporting culture has led to a doubling of the numbers of forced use. Rogaland alone has reported a total of 5,800 regular notifications of coercive use to date this year, compared with 3,100 years earlier. The day before, Rogaland NRK also reported that in the last 20 years, there have been only two nationwide surveillance on the use of cohabitation. The Norwegian Association of Devolved People, NFU, believes that the authorities do not detect crime well enough. Earlier that week, the NRK pointed to a report from NTNU that developmentally disabled people are placed in residential communities larger than institutions laid down in the 1990s. The NFU considers that the authorities are not in control of what is happening in municipal housing. They also say that there is a total lack of guidance and competence. Last week, the NFU sent a letter to the Minister for Municipal Affairs, Liv Signe Navarsete, which provides important input into how the House Bank's practice in granting loans can be made more in line with the reform's intentions and legal requirements. Commentator Kari Gåsvatn says in the nations on November 25 that people with developmental disabilities have been getting worse again in the last ten years. She writes that much can be explained by the fact that the field is placed in the care sector, while the basic issue is discrimination versus equality. This is important. One instrument in this context that the government can use is to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Christian People's Party Dagfinn Høybråten sent written questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 30 November – a few days ago. I would also like to mention that, in its position on the 2012 budget, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has written the following: ‘The Committee has noted that the government has for several years announced a roll-out proposal on the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee points out that it was signed in March 2007 and stresses the importance of Norway now ratifying this Convention.» This is very positive. We all want a better everyday life and a better life for people with developmental disabilities. The political signals from all parties are clear: the intentions of the responsibilities reform must be fulfilled. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality organises conferences throughout the country to revitalise the reform of responsibilities. It's a pleasure. Work in the future is far more than housing and coercion. Let me just mention some other areas with great potential for improvement: work, activity, education, health, medication, etc. When the investigation we are discussing today is completed, we must all contribute to ensuring that the living conditions of the developing population are improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1738	I would like to begin by expressing my joy at the unanimous agreement of the Left on the high time of an evaluation of the reform of responsibility. I very much agree with the other speakers, whom I have understood, that there are various reasons why the reform should be evaluated. I would like to say briefly, however, a little bit about why the Left promoted this proposal. The responsibilities reform, adopted in 1991, was to move the disabled from central institutions back to their home municipalities. The purpose of the reform was to phase out the institutions and to improve and normalise the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. The intention of the reform was good, but it has subsequently been shown to have had many unintended effects. Some reason might be that all disabled people were treated as if they were a uniform group. I would say that the responsibilities reform in practice was a housing reform. Everyone was to be moved, preferably to owner-occupied housing, in their municipalities, and it was ignored that the challenges were far more differentiated. Many people with disabilities live in solitude today. We regularly hear about young people with disabilities who are in hospital in their municipality, because there is no good alternative. Where they used to live together, they now live in each other's apartment. Some disabled people work so well that they can manage themselves in their own home with user-driven personal assistant, while others will probably have the best at a well-adapted institution. It is very well documented that the reform of responsibilities has several serious shortcomings. There is a lack of scope in the actions of the well-functioning and those with extensive and complex disabilities. It's a little bit of individual customization. There is a lack of systematic cultural and leisure services and systematic health and activity work is lacking. Recently, there was one thing in the media where relatives were upset about their disabled son, who was previously gentle, extroverted and life-smooth, but who, after he was moved back to the municipality, became so disgusted that he became both depressed and aggressive. The solution the municipality had on this, was to medicate him with stronger and stronger medications, so they managed to handle him. The result was a son whom the relatives no longer knew. For the relatives it was painful to see the changes without being able to do anything about it, and it must have been very despairing for the disabled person himself to get his quality of life so deteriorated. There can be no doubt that in this case it was not at the best of the boy to be brought back to the municipality. The only answer that individual municipalities have to ‘a little turbulent’ users are to medicate, because they lack competence and resources to meet the challenges in a better and more dignified way. The example may not be unique. That's how I think there's too many more disabled people around the country. The evaluation of the responsibilities reform is therefore essential and will certainly lead to a number of changes in the provision of disabled people. The quality of a rich country such as Norway can be measured by how well we are able to include people with lower starting points and assumptions than most of us. One of the core areas of the Left is precisely that we embrace everyone's personal freedom, but at the same time take responsibility for the community and each other. Freedom for individuals also applies to people with disabilities. The penetration of auxiliary staff may be a burden on users and their relatives. It is possible that the time has come to look at a change in rotational arrangements, so that disabled people do not have to deal with so many people all the time. One example is to open more to so-called North Sea Tour. It would provide more predictability and stability, better learning conditions and communication, and not least better quality of life. I hope this is a side of the reform that can be discussed in an evaluation. Many people with disabilities can't fight their own fight in the system alone, they're all abandoned around them. They're lucky, those who are born to idealistic and resource-intensive relatives. However, we also need good arrangements for disabled children in families who have less resources to inform themselves in the system. We know, for example. that the risk of care failure is higher for disabled children than for other children. That is why I believe that the relevant perspective should also be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1761	There was a cross-political consensus on the reform of people with developmental disabilities. I am pleased that an overall committee is reaching 20 years after the reform was launched in 1991, stressing the firmness of the objectives of the reform. As a committee, I would like to stress strongly that people with developmental disabilities have the right to live active and independent lives. The year-on-year survey conducted 10 years after the reform showed that there had been a significant public effort to improve services and living conditions. At the same time, efforts were still needed to address important challenges, such as: legislative provisions on individual level, ageing and developmental disability programmes, skills measures, national adult rehabilitation guidance and strategy plan for the rehabilitation of children and young people. In 2007, the Health Directorate summarized existing knowledge on legal certainty and living conditions for people with developmental disabilities in the report We will, we will, but are we getting it? In 2010, data on living conditions and services were collected on behalf of the National Environment of Competence on Developmental Disability, NACU, which was established in 2007. In the report Satisfying Goals or Broken Visions? a composite image is drawn. Most people get good apartments and are more active in leisure. However, more and more large communities are established, and fewer have day-to-day activity. The report shows that staff are increasingly using organisational grounds for lack of self-determination. The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has established the information and development programme People with developmental disabilities should also not be discriminated against. The aim is to raise awareness of the objective of the reform. There is a lot of evidence to point to the increased use of drugs for mental illness, and that these are prescribed without clear psychiatric diagnosis or evaluation of treatment. Several medicinal products may cause adverse reactions and adverse reactions. At the same time, those with reduced development may suffer that is not detected. I'm serious about this. A key action in the Interaction Reform is to strengthen the fast-track system. The habilitation service provides important services and has been highlighted in several mission documents to regional health establishments. Guidance material has been created to help strengthen this service. It is not appropriate to resort to medicinal products rather than to provide safe care services. The Interaction Reform sets out the requirements for a holistic process in which the user must be at the centre. Good cooperation practices across levels and disciplines are necessary to provide individually organised services. Users and relatives shall participate in this cooperation. I've mentioned some areas where we know that conditions should get better, and where we're going. The Committee asks for a comprehensive investigation assessing the results of the responsibilities reform after 20 years, with particular emphasis on housing, work, leisure and health. I want to follow up on this in cooperation with the user organisations. In several areas, important work is required to be included in such work. The Minister of Labour launched the Job Strategy for people with disabilities in 2012. The aim is to increase participation in working life for disabled young people. The Research Institute has been commissioned to acquire knowledge of the need for permanent job placements. A public body looks at the full range of measures available to people with disabilities. The committee shall deliver its opinion by the end of this year. In the Nou «Rome for All. A social housing policy for the future’ is described as challenges related to housing for people with disabilities. The Minister of Local Affairs will follow up on this in the 2012 Housing Communication. In 2012, the Ministry of Health and Health shall provide for the evaluation of the patient and user Ombudsman scheme, as well as an investigation on legal certainty, user management and quality. People with developmental disabilities have the same rights as us. We cannot accept a worse offer to them than what we would have accepted for ourselves. Like all of us, they also have different needs, and like all of us, they will be helped to live their lives as best they can. That must be the starting point for the work we're now going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1791	It is gratifying that all parties now support the proposal for an investigation, and that the Council of State says this should be followed up. But the reduction of a sample should not be a sleeper cushion, and there is a grip that can actually be done immediately. The first is to intensify the House Bank’s rules to avoid these care gaps, and the second is whether Norway should now ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. My question will then be whether the Minister of Health will immediately address these measures, because they do not depend on the evaluation to be carried out, but they will be able to help stop negative developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1798	Especially housing is an important area. The fact that there is now a much larger housing community, which is, to be confused, similar to institutions, I consider to be serious. This is also seen as serious by the Minister of State, who is responsible for the House Bank. That is why this is also addressed in the communication submitted by the Minister of Local Affairs in 2012, while I know that she is aware of the issues. Although there may be shortcomings in the reform, I think we have to look at this overall as a very positive reform. It was a completely different situation we had 20 years ago, when the mentally retarded were hidden at some very large institutions with hundreds of residents, compared to the fact that they currently live in housing and are a completely visible part of the municipality image.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1805	As I was in my post, I am concerned with the health care of this group, and I think what has emerged about the lack of professionals, the lack of specialists to diagnose and treat this group, is very serious. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this, whether she has any thoughts on how this should be ensured in the future – ensuring good, qualified professionals. If it is true that it is being underdiagnosed and mistreated, as I said, it is very serious. Nor, as it has emerged, is there any supervision for this group. So I would also ask the Council of State to comment on it, if she would make sure that there would be an oversight in this area. Finally, I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up. When can we expect such an investigation to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1812	I very much agree that it is serious if it is that the health service is too poor. I would also believe that very many mentally retarded people are very dependent on having a permanent resident who can follow them up, and who are interested in their life situation. For a lot of people, it's a challenge to communicate, to tell what's wrong, or to feel pain at all, so this requires both insight and competence. As this is part of the work to be done, I would like to wait before we go further in and see what actually needs to be done. You can always say that more competence and more appropriate skills will be important, because I think it's also true that many people may be underdiagnosed and may be misdiagnosed. As far as supervision is concerned, this is something I want to address with the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1821	A little about housing: I understand that the reason the House Bank is now lending loans to large dwellings is that the guidelines for the House Bank have changed. I don't know what the background is, but they have the opportunity to do that. Some of the dwellings that are being built today are giants – there are many dozens of residents living in common, and then you are back to if not the largest, of course, yet relatively large institutions that were, and that were part of the responsibility reform that you should have gone away. So the Council of State says it will come back to this in the 2012 housing announcement, but my question is whether you should not look at the guidelines in the House Bank already now, so that you do not actually build these dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1828	As I said, this is directly under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the House Bank. I know she's particularly aware of this, because we've been made aware of some construction projects that are absolutely confusing like previous institutions, even though they now contain individual apartments. Last year, I had my own book, which was sent to all the country's rapporteurs, clarifying how to move forward in order to get housing for mentally disabled people, both by building on their own, perhaps joining with others and building on their own, and how the municipality has different ways and models to establish adequate and good housing targeted at people with developmental disabilities – also with a view to their different and different needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1835	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1840	15 years ago, as cultural director, I had the pleasure of hosting summer sports games for the mentally retarded. With my hand on my heart, I can say that it's one of the most inspiring projects I've ever been involved in. The husband of the happy, the winning – and with the associated tragedies when the results were not as expected! It is not difficult to get engaged on behalf of these citizens! The life situation of mentally retarded persons is different, but the right to live active and independent lives should be the same. A thorough assessment of, inter alia: housing offers and housing situations — to which this representative proposal refers — are central in such a context. I have brought with me a fresh example from Hedmark. It's more like considering the input to the sample that I'm now expecting will be reduced. Maybe it can provoke a little bit. In any case, a parent group of ten mentally retarded persons has worked together with resource personnel for one and a half years on the design of a housing cooperative in the immediate vicinity of the stone school in the municipality of Stange. The cooperative is called the Joint Future, and they want to organise themselves as a housing law subject to an established housing law. In the neighbourhood, a grouping of resource people, the Housing Resource, associated with the movement of stones, wants to establish their own housing, economic and financial independently of the Common Future. The Housing Resource is also planned to be organised as a housing law under the same housing law. At the same time, they want to establish an inclusive cooperative, where resource people will be able to provide social protection and an additional resource. This inclusive housing will then be the first of its kind in Norway. There is a large deficit in housing for people with mental retardation on a national basis. So here a group of parents have taken the initiative to solve the housing problem; they have undertaken extensive work to finance and build housing in which their children can be safe. However, the implementation of the responsibilities reform made clarifications, which have been discussed by many, in relation to this by limiting the construction to two to five housing units. Here we're talking about ten housing units. This can therefore lead to the rejection of the application for a personal grant. In that case, it will overturn this whole positive project. We don't have to sit in a situation where we don't also have an opening for innovation. It's rarely a rule without an exception. Psychiatric retardants, as in this case, shall also have the right to choose with whom they wish to live. Here it's about a ten-person community of friends, with a strong center next door.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1853	Many speakers have gone back 20 years, I'll start over 40 years ago, in the clamoring year 1968. Then the International League of Societies organized its General Assembly in Jerusalem. Arne Skouen attended from Norway. They adopted a declaration adopted by the United Nations in 1972 in a slightly modified form. That's what it says. ‘The mentally retarded person has the right to sound medical treatment and physical rehabilitation and to education, training, equipment and guidance’ — and this is important: ‘which can enable him to develop his abilities and opportunities to the utmost, regardless of the degree of his developmental disability’. This led to a revolution in which ‘normalisation’ became the main concept. Normalization does not mean becoming normal, but having the right to a normal life, that is. equality with all others in respect of rights and obligations. It might seem that things went fast, but it took 20 years from the United Nations to grant their human rights with mental retardation until the adoption of the responsibilities reform. In 1974 a young nursing assistant started at Dagsrudheimen, called Karin Mathiesen, later known as author Karin Fossum. She wrote in a poem from Dagsrudheimen: ‘Tomorrow Will all be charged with your accusations? Be Justified All claims made Sanne’» Now 20 years have passed since the reform of responsibility. Looking back, it has happened enormously in terms of human dignity and the view of the less developed. But there's reason to be concerned anyway. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee now stands united in its comments, and not least that the Committee and all the speakers here today – perhaps with the exception of the Left-wing rapporteurs – underline the ideology of the reform of responsibility. It's important because we're experiencing a lot of attacks on this today. Some claim that it's gone too far, normalization can't be ideal, etc. Not least, this – which has been mentioned by many – is important in planning new dwellings, so that we do not add up to new institutions. This, of course, is about money. There is a great pressure on municipal services to be cheaper and more efficient, but this is an area where it is very often not possible without compromising quality. Developmentally disabled people are just as different from you and me, yes – they are actually more different. That means that they and their relatives have to make their choices for life, just like us. But they are, as a group, people who don't so easily speak their own case. Therefore, they are more than others dependent on having others speaking their case. I'm so lucky to have a multi-functional sister who has an own home. I can visit her in the home, and when I bring foreigners to visit her, what they're left with is as an impression – that's what impresses them most with Norway. This is the Norwegian welfare state at its best. But not all people with developmental disabilities and their families feel that way. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the reform of responsibility, not to change course, but to see if the objectives have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1881	It's not many days I'm as happy as today. I would like to thank both the proposers, the Committee and the Council of State for having now taken steps to evaluate the reform. This is necessary, also because we need to reaffirm the principles of the reform in one way or another. The work started with the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion when he sent letters to all institutions and municipalities about the information and development programme in this area. It's absolutely necessary that we do that. I was a municipal politician when the reform was implemented, and it was a big turnaround, I can promise. What you see now is that you sort of slip back into the special care complex. That's why, like my colleague, I'm also a little surprised that it's the Left who here draws institutions as a solution for some, while the starting point is the exact opposite – that's what we shouldn't have. This case is, as others have said, inter alia: Mr Davøy, on non-discrimination and equality. It's not just about the needs of the individual, but it's also about the aspirations of the retarded, who are as legitimate as the desires of any of us in our lives. This information and development programme, sent from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will go to all state agencies. That means they have to look through their way of working. There should also be a requirement for all parties sitting here now and confirming that that is what they want, to go back to their parties in all local governments and make sure that this is going through there, because there I think it's a lot to pick up. So to the point of work. There we have said in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that we want to identify the need for long-term job creation, either in sheltered enterprises or in ordinary working life, and that we can distinguish the measures relating to work for people who need organized work. Because it's not about action, it's about work, and it's something the state has to contribute to more than it does today. That's good action. They are so good that they are also used for many others other than those with a developmental disability, and therefore, unfortunately, more people with a developmental disability that should be offered today are left unsolicited. So for medication. It's a topic I've worked a lot on in other contexts, and I'm absolutely convinced that for those with developmental disabilities, like for the elderly, side effects of drugs that aren't diagnosed like that, but as a new disease... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1892	Then I think the rest of the medication must come in a different dose, because the speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1896	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Lars Egeland from the SV for his praise to the Left. I also share the joy of Karin Andersen today over the consensus in this matter. I'm going to leave some of the things that she came along with at the end, but I think that the responsibility reform should not just be a housing reform, you have to look at reforming the whole sector. In a representative proposal in March this year from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, which also supported the Left, it was proposed to remove the 26-year rule for training equipment for people with disabilities. The proposal was not supported by the positioning parties. The original scheme was intended for disabled children but has been gradually expanded. That's good, but it's still a completely artificial limit to set. From a public health perspective, it is clearly a great advantage that people with disabilities can also participate in physical activity in line with others. Much of this equipment is too expensive for each disabled person to bear the costs himself. Is it reasonable for each disabled person to take all these costs? Of course it's not. We know that if disabled people do not receive support for special equipment, it becomes too expensive for them to engage in physical activity, and that in practice a large group of people are prevented from participating in a very important arena in society. In that case, it is better to have a proportion of training equipment equivalent to the price of ordinary equipment. It will be possible to limit expenditure and prevent unnecessary purchases. From a social point of view, where good health is important, so that you can study, work and otherwise participate in and work in a family situation and in society in general, an extended system in this area will be socio-economic economy-saving in the long term. In addition, such a preventive health measure must be fully in line with the intentions of the Interaction Reform. Another issue is the situation of relatives, which is often a very important resource for people with disabilities. There I know that the Minister of Health agrees with the Left. We know that many relatives are struggling with heavy care tasks for which they receive little or no financial support from the public. Here, too, there is a completely artificial limit of 18 years. Some people with disabilities will not be able to take care of themselves after the age of 18 years, and many people with the same burden of care, regardless of the age of the disabled person. There is then a problem that many rights and financial support schemes will cease when disabled children reach the age of 18 but still live at home. For example, parents lose the right to care if their child becomes ill and depends entirely on supervision. The family is entitled to leave, but then without pay. It is disappointing that there is no better provision for relatives, and that they are seen as a resource that saves society for large costs. I believe that this legislation also needs to be looked at more thoroughly, and look at how this time and again can create difficult life situations for people with disabilities. I know, of course, about the Kaasa Committee's attitude, but I believe it does not take into account relatives who choose to have adult children living at home. The question is whether the government might not appreciate the relatives as much as they are trying to give the impression. This is also an important problem, and we also need to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1913	I needed to complete my reasoning. It is that many types of medicines can cause quite serious side effects, sea level at low and usual therapeutic doses. I have become more and more aware, through my work on social policy, that some of these side effects are being diagnosed again as a new disease, preferably a mental illness, and that in those days they are being given drugs to cure an adverse reaction to a medicine. This often leads to serious illness and conditions where one is even less able to take care of the sea, and much less to enjoy life. I think this is a very important aspect of care for people with developmental disabilities, that you have to look at how to use drugs. There have been some examples that have been drawn in this respect, which have been very serious. The representative of Scotland drew up the example in Stange, which I have also been interested in. The most interesting thing about the matter – I think – was perhaps the rapporteur in Stange's comment, where he said that here the municipality must actually have a word in it, because perhaps they live so that it becomes too expensive for us. I think that comment says everything about how the situation is in many places, that you think you have the right to count on some people here in the world, about how much they cost, and whether they're going to be allowed to make their choices in their lives, like the rest of us. That's why the principles here are that you should be allowed to choose the type of accommodation you want to sail, and live where you want to sail. So at the end of the United Nations Convention. It is true that the Labour and Social Committee has asked for progress on this. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Norway’s practice in this area is very strict – it should not only have been adopted, but it should also have implemented every single paragraph of the law required for the provisions of the Convention. There it is that the Stortinget has adopted all the legal provisions, but there is a lack of funding for a small part of the Vergemålsgesetz. To say it like that -- it's not on us. We want this ratification in place, because I think that for Norway, we have a clear intention of implementing it. The problem is that you get a sort of international worst list of those who have not ratified, along with many countries that have done much less but have ratified. With regard to this very topic, what Norway is doing is probably more important internationally than if it has any specific implications for the policy we are taking in practice here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1928	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1944	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1953	The government's health policy has as its main objective the provision of a good, qualitative and equivalent health service to all, no matter where we live in the country and not least what economy we have, and what social conditions we live under. Rapid and good access to high-quality new medicinal products that are proven to be effective and cost-effective are important elements in such an equivalent offer. I am therefore pleased that the government in the 2012 budget proposes to grant money for the extended pre-approved reimbursement of the medicinal product alendronate for the treatment of leg driving. In addition, the government has a change of Prop. 1 S Appendix 4 said that the medicinal product ticagrelor meets the criteria for pre-approved reimbursement and that it is cost-effective in the treatment of patients with acute or unstable coronary disease, i.e. heart disease. More than 16,000 patients can be treated by this today and next year. Through this conversion, they will receive a better treatment provision, which provides better protection against, among other things. myocardial infarction. The de minimis ceiling was introduced in 2003 under the Bondevik II Government. The scheme works in such a way that the Medical Products Agency can grant a prescription for a medicinal product where the additional reimbursement costs do not exceed 5 million. kr the fifth year of reimbursement in use. If this so-called de minimis limit is exceeded, the department will assess and prioritise this against many other tasks, services and services that we have in our healthcare. The current system provides a cost control that is necessary and important, as it is in all other areas of healthcare. In addition, the medicinal product shall have demonstrated good efficacy and safety to the benefit of all patients and users. Of a total of 138 applications for a pre-authorised refund addressed by the Swedish Medicines Agency in 2010, only four were rejected. Three were sent to the Ministry of Health and Welfare because the costs exceeded the so-called de minimis threshold. The remaining medicinal products were included in the system of pre-authorised reimbursement. Of the three medicinal products submitted to the Ministry of Health and Health in 2010, two have now been granted a pre-authorised refund. In addition, like the Council of State, I would like to refer to Report. St. 16 for 2010–2011, where medicinal products and drug use are important themes. Proposalers address many important issues and issues related to their proposal. Several aspects are now being worked to follow up the national health and care plan in terms of both mismedicine, the role of pharmacies in the future and how to improve the overall supply of medicinal products. On this basis, the majority would recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1972	Once again, the opposition has gathered on all the necessary measures to improve patients’ ability to access good medicines. As expected as an overall opposition now proposes a number of measures that would improve supply, the government is turning the thumb down. Unfortunately, it has become that government parties seem to be more concerned with defending the existing than with developing the health system. It might seem that the existing thing itself is a value. Today, too, the proposal is being promoted which would ensure a significantly higher de minimis threshold, as the representative of Asphjell set out in the background. It will be discouraged even if the government knows that this would help Norwegian patients to have faster access to new, improved and innovative medicines. The de minimis limit is a strange scheme. There is no equivalent in any country, my acquaintance, nor anything similar. Today, the proposal is also being promoted which could contribute to the presentation by Stortinget of the professional evaluations made by the Swedish Medicines Agency in its recommendations on medicinal products that should be covered by the reimbursement scheme. These decisions will rather be taken by the government in the closed rooms in the government quarter. This does not serve patients. Today, the proposal is being promoted which would ensure the possibility of further developing the system of sales of medicinal products outside the pharmacies. The current regime is satisfied with the government and will not assess whether it can be improved or developed. According to the government, the arrangement is perfect just like we have it today. Get it, whoever wants it. Today, the government could vote in favour of the proposal that aims to speed up the introduction of new treatment services across the country. A new report from the Equality Ombudsman points to major health differences around the country. Nevertheless, the government says that today's situation as they perceive it, is just right. Similarly, the government parties today are voting down proposals that would ensure a more accurate system for medicinal products that could be added as a new category in pharmacies and that would have provided more and better information on some medicinal products. It is about putting into practice the competences of Norwegian pharmacists, which the whole Storting should accept that they are out there and that could relieve the health care system. Competence exists in Norwegian pharmacies, but this does not mean that this competence is to be used. Governments are often said to manage the existing one, and rarely has the claim matched better than the current political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Something new from that edge we're spared. Here it's going to be like it's always been. They sometimes appear more conservative than the parties in this room who profess to be conservatism themselves. No one is worthy of such a passive government. Norwegian pharmaceutical policy has room for major improvements. An overall opposition has promoted a number of proposals in recent years and has come a long way in shaping tomorrow's pharmaceutical policy. The government's answer is that they've barely wanted to get to the starting line. It's too passive, and we can't have it like that. We need a new policy in this area. It has been proposed by the opposition today. It is on behalf of those I am pleased to address the proposal that has also been referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1991	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e1994	I can join most – almost everything – that the last speaker said in his post. We have a good health service in very many ways, but one of the areas where Norway still has a way to go in terms of better health policy is about medicines. If we are to ensure all equivalent health services of the best quality, we must also have a pharmaceutical policy that provides quick and good access to effective and safe medicines. We need better information on safer use and handling of medicines. We need faster approval and implementation of new and effective drugs, and we need a more flexible system. It is in order to bring these objectives closer that the Right promotes a proposal for a representative on faster and better access to medicinal products. Here, as in many other areas, right is concerned about seeing the opportunities, exploiting our potential and getting even better. The Bondevik II government promoted a major communication on medicinal policy, for which the Storting joined the objectives. A number of actions were outlined to achieve the objectives. Some have been done since then, but more has to be done. We believe Norwegian patients need faster access to new treatment services that are proven to be safe and cost-effective. Treatment services and medicines that can give patients better lives and that are proven to be effective can also save lives, yet they are not used. This is due to a regulation that is too cumbersome and too slow. We believe it is important to have clear and effective guidelines for the introduction of new treatment services in healthcare. Guidelines must ensure a rapid procedure and an open and predictable procedure. It is also important to facilitate research and innovation and the development of new medicinal products and treatments. I also refer to a proposal by the Right last year on a long-term strategy for biomedicine, which will facilitate the better development of the pharmaceutical industry in Norway. This can be an important industry for the country, which would not least also contribute to better health, quality of life and treatment for patients. The rapid and effective access of the population to medicinal products they use is important for patients, but it will also make the system less bureaucratic. It is proposed that pharmacists should also be given prescription-free medicines, which are currently excluded, due to information needs related to them. At the time of supervision in 2009, the state’s health oversight found anomalies of 18 out of 23 nursing homes in the case of medicinal products management. This is very serious. The right considers that it is absolutely necessary to take measures to prevent mis-medication and to ensure the proper use of medicinal products. Competent staff and good use of pharmacies and pharmaceutical competence are important. I want to show that the Right in its alternative budget has granted $5 million. kr for incentive grants to municipalities. This shall enable them to carry out a pharmacovigilance for patients admitted to hospital. I also record that this year they receive medicines recommended by the State Medicines Agency, pre-authorised reimbursement, because they have been found both cost-effective and effective, but this is not followed up by the government. This shows that there is a problem with the bacterium limit and that it is too low. Several reasonable medicinal products should be eligible for prior authorisation when recommended by the National Medicines Agency. Today, the limit is 5 million. kr. We think that's too little. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, we will have a substantial lifting of this. This also shows that the Storting should be given the opportunity to see the government’s priorities in the budget proposal. We have asked the government to provide information on which medicines are recommended for a pre-authorised refund where this has not been followed up. The government did not do so for 2012, nor did it follow up the recommendations with proposals for funding. So the Right suggests that this is done with several medicines, including against Restless Legs syndrome, Alzheimer's disease and atrial fibrillation. Although there are several measures in place, many still remain to pursue the objective of the treatment of St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005 The right course for proper drug use is being followed up, and we look forward to the government following this in the new notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2021	Medicinal product is an important part of our health supply. The medicinal product notification issued in 2005 presented a wide range of measures to meet the drug policy objectives. It oversees the objectives of pharmaceutical policy, is proper pharmaceutical use, proper diagnosis, correct prescribing and proper use. Medicinal product must be used correctly both medically and economically. Patients shall have safe access to effective medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay, and medicinal products shall have the lowest possible price. Publishers today will have their own action plan to reduce the extent of mismedication. I think the Council of State in its reply to the Committee is doing well because there are already good measures going on, and that it is natural to allow further efforts with concrete measures to become an important part of the patient safety alert. In its reply letter, the Council also makes good use of the measures taken to streamline the reimbursement system. Several medicinal products have been transferred from individual reimbursement to pre-approved reimbursement. Of a total of 138 applications for pre-approval for reimbursement, four were rejected and three were submitted to the Ministry because the costs exceeded the de minimis threshold. Of the three medicinal products submitted to the Department, two have received a pre-approved refund. At present, a total of five medicinal products are being evaluated in the ministry. A holistic system for the introduction and follow-up of new methods in the specialist healthcare service is already in place in the national health and care plan to ensure rapid access to new methods, technologies and new medicinal products that are proven to be effective and cost-effective. State councils have also done some good for the status of assessing the full range requirement at the wholesale level of pharmacies and for developing the non-pharmacies sales arrangements. I would also like to mention what the Stortinget joins in the National Health and Care Plan: National Health and Care Plan states that medical reviews should be carried out systematically in hospitals, hospitals and home-based patients with extensive drug use. The review is also important when changing the level of care patients. In hospital, it is also relevant to carry out a six-monthly review of the medicinal product in patients taking multiple medicinal products at the same time. The establishment of multidisciplinary teams will be an important quality improvement measure for the proper treatment of medicinal products. The team may consist of a doctor, pharmacist, nurse or clinical pharmacologist. In the national health and care plan, we also consider that better use of the competences of pharmacists can contribute to better medical treatment. Pharmacists may also contribute to the evaluation and follow-up of medical treatment in individual patients. The national health and care plan also refers to multidoses, as a contribution to making the handling of medicinal products simpler and more transparent. National health and care plans refer to the fact that patient counselling, a conversation between patients and pharmacists, can help the patient to understand better for their own drug use. Better support tools in the doctor’s electronic journaling system with eRecipt and research support are also important measures mentioned in the national health and care plan. I look forward to these proposals being followed up in the implementation of the agreed national health and care plan. Then I react a little bit to the fact that from the opposition we are owed not to do anything about this matter. It is well documented that we are doing a lot in the field of medicines, and the Council of State has mentioned that point by point in its letter. I can't believe that the opposition thinks we should have our own action plan for proper medical management when it's announced that we should have a credit card on patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2042	In the previous case, the representative Karin Andersen was involved in mismedication and mental retardation. It is an important issue also when we are discussing this Document No. The 8th proposal. The Committee has also been concerned about this in its position, where we wrote in the setting of the previous case: «In this context, the Committee refers to the importance of knowledge and control of drug use for people with developmental disabilities.» What we need to be aware of is that doctors should refer patients to specialist health services when they do not themselves have the necessary skills. But we also know that lack of competence is a major reason why the high level of drug use is so widespread. I want to say a little bit more about high levels of psychopharmacies in people with developmental disabilities and also say a little about the use of pharmaceuticals, which was also the last speaker. We have read a study from 2009 on mental retardation. There it was found that only 27 pst. who received a psychotherapy, had a psychiatric diagnosis. People with mental retardation generally have high levels of psychotropic consumption. We know that lack of knowledge of environmental therapeutic interventions and follow-up can be one of the reasons why a person uses the psychopharmaceutical to regulate behaviour. There was some conclusion in this study. So a little bit about pharmacists, because here I think some of the key to being able to be much better in dealing with drugs both in hospitals and in the community health service is lying. We believe from the Christian People's Party that it is important that hospital pharmacists enter the hospital wards and treat patients, because it can ensure knowledge and quality. I'm not saying that we don't have it today, but it's different practices around. Not long ago I read an article about a nurse who thought that, for example. dying patients suffer more than is necessary. She said this: Lack of competence in hospital staff on pain relief means that some patients do not get the relief they need at the end of their life. They get an unnecessary and tough end to life, because nurses and doctors are insecure about the use of painkillers. That's why I think that into the department, into the pain team, it might be important to take hospital pharmacists, who can actually make a difference. Now we're not the only country that drives and mis-medicates, to say it like that. In Denmark, there has also been a major problem. Just under a year ago, I read in Danish Politics that because of the fact that 740,000 people in Denmark took so many pills, it had been decided to launch a large project. It was patients who took more than six types of medication every day. It turned out that different doctors had prescribed different medications without talking to each other. Doctors often know very little about how some medicines work together. One of the measures was that older chronically ill people and others who took six or more medications daily were to be offered a medical review once a year, either by hospital discharge or through the prescriber. In that case, the prescriber would be assisted by a clinical pharmacist. In Norway, we also have some good examples that have not been mentioned from the pulpit today. At the Diakon home here in Oslo, there is actually a project – it is very successful – where outpatients are referred by doctors to a clinical pharmacy for an extended medical conversation. The conversation is prepared with regard to current drug use, medical history and, of course, the patient's wishes and needs. After four to six weeks, they have a follow-up conversation. Each conversation is documented and a doctor contacted if necessary. Drug-related problems are solved and followed up in the follow-up interview. This is a very good action, which is taking place at the Medical Outpatient Clinic at the Diakon home Hospital. We have opportunities here. I know that in the patient safety campaign, which was launched last year, proper drug management is also one of four measures that was launched. When the notification comes next year, it is hoped that there will also be a strong focus on proper drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2066	Medicinal products shall be used correctly, both medically and financially. Patients shall have equal access to safe and effective medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay, and medicinal products shall have the lowest possible price. These objectives are the broad political consensus. The National Medicines Agency is authorised to grant a pre-authorised reimbursement for a medicinal product if the increase in social security costs is below the de minimis level. Earlier this year, a clarification was made in the calculation method used to estimate whether the de minimis threshold is exceeded. The change has led to the granting of a pre-approved refund to two new anti-cancer medicinal products. The government proposed to extend the reimbursement conditions for alendronate in the budget for the next year – and as we have debated today – so that more patients with osteoporosis can receive this drug on a pre-approved refund. We also proposed that the new heart medicine ticagrelor be given prior approval. A new blue prescription was adopted in 2008. The aim was to streamline the reimbursement system. Several medicinal products have also been transferred from individual to pre-authorised reimbursement and from the contribution scheme to the BIP. This shows that medicinal products are continuously included in the bladder prescription system. At the same time, I would like to remind you that although a medicinal product has not been granted a pre-authorised refund, the individual doctor on behalf of the patient may apply for individual reimbursement of the costs of most medicinal products. In the specialist healthcare service, we have not had enough systems for evaluation and prioritisation, as it is in the bladder prescription system. This is why we are now going to set up a comprehensive system for the introduction and follow-up of new methods in the specialist healthcare service. The aim is for patients to have rapid access to new methods, new technologies and new, efficient and cost-effective medicinal products. Unfortunately, mismedication is a major challenge in healthcare services today. Therefore, drug use has been selected as one of several areas of intervention in the national patient safety campaign ‘In safe hands’. The proper use of medicines in hospitals is one of the themes. Another theme is the coordination of lists of medicinal products in the transition between healthcare levels. A national medical review guide shall be established in the light of the patient safety campaign. The government has invested in several annual works and increased competence in the municipal care services. The initiative has contributed to a significant increase in the number of annual works and an increase in the proportion of staff with health and social education. About 80 pst. of the growth of 19 000 annual works in the period 2005–2010, there have been health and social education staff. Good competence contributes to better quality of care services. There have also been several years of medical work at the nursing homes. In the period 2006–2010, the increase in medical output has been about 40 p.p. The medical offer to the residents of nursing homes has also been strengthened. As part of the Danish plan 2015, work is being done on expanding day-to-day activities and other forms of environmental work. There is reason to believe that this will affect the high consumption of drugs among people with dementia. In the national health and care plan, the government mentions measures that can contribute to safer drug use. We have also now made proposals to establish a national core journal at the hearing, which will also have a major impact on patient safety. In 2012, the government shall present two major messages in which the medicinal product field will be an important theme. It is a Communication on ICT and eHealth and a Communication on Quality and Patient Safety. A number of activities and initiatives have already been launched to reduce the extent of mis-medication and to contribute to better drug use. The means of achieving these objectives shall be integrated into the overall quality of treatment measures, good ICT solutions and the commitment to safe and secure services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2101	There was a lot of work to be done here. Not least, there's a lot of government don't do that you could take care of. I'm going to try to focus on the de minimis limit, which the bourgeois parties are calling for to increase in the proposal. The de minimis threshold is such that if costs exceed a certain amount, certain constraints – i.e. economics – form the basis for the assessment, as explained by the representative Asphjell. Now the state council is not a finance minister, but she is a health minister, so my question to the health minister must be: what kind of health professional reasons can she give me to have a de minimis limit or not to increase the de minimis limit – that is, the health professional justifications, not the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2111	It is true that I am not the Minister of Finance, but the Minister of Health. That's actually very correct. At the same time, it must be fantastic for the Progress Party just to be able to free itself from absolutely all economic thoughts. I do not know whether the Progress Party – I do not remember that, but I have read the budget setting – has taken into account that if you want to do something about the budget de minimis limit, it actually has some budgetary implications. The government is concerned that we should be able to use good, safe, safe medicines in Norway. So do we. Some of these proposals are proposals that we have actually addressed in the national health and care plan, including: a proposal that the Committee has made — I would like to say — to a comment that goes on one of these proposals. So this is not something we're not working on; we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2120	Even if the de minimis level is raised, it will be drugs that reach the limit. In this setting, the opposition makes proposals that the medicinal products which reach the border, but which the government chooses not to give priority, should be explained in the suspension of the government budget on the basis of reasons given by the government for not prioritising them, so that the Storting itself can decide on the government’s priorities. Today, it is a well-hidden secret that has been used by the government this year, for example. have not prioritised medicinal products for Alzheimer’s without behavioural impairment, atrial fibrillation, Restless Legs syndrome, although recommended by the Swedish Medical Products Agency. This must be asked every year by the Stortinget, because the government does not want to explain it in the state budget setting, which is common in other areas. Why does the government not want to explain the drugs above the de minimis threshold that they do not give priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2127	Once again, I would say that in the case of medicinal products and the Agency's recommendations, they are very often open, so there is no secret in it. This often has budgetary implications. But I would like to refer to one very important proposal, which the opposition has taken up here, and which has been written as a note in connection with the national health and care plan. It's just about using new technology, which is expensive. Often it is about expensive medicines that can have a good effect and that can be used throughout the country. Often it is now that it is used in some places, without everyone getting involved. We want to do something about that. That is why we are going to introduce that system in 2012. As a result, after careful and good evaluation, several medicinal products may enter the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2134	I have a question that the Cancer Association actually raised at the hearing of this proposal in the committee. They referred to the Health Directorate’s 2007 report, Cancer Medicinal Products. The management of new and expensive medicines. The report proposes the establishment of a temporary financial instrument to allow for the re-examination of the evidence of effects and dietary benefit. The report proposed that the scheme should provide temporary funding for new cancer medicinal products that have had a proven added effect compared to existing treatment. Is this something that the Minister of Health will look at further, or is it put on ice?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2139	I am very concerned that when we are going to use new medicines, it should be safe and well-tested medicines. I would also like to stress that we give medicines to patients in Norway for many different diagnoses and disorders. They're very expensive, very expensive, and we do it because we think it's right. Of course, the type of patient in which the patient is involved must be assessed in each individual case when it comes to the use of new drugs. But the important thing is that initially it should be well-tested, good and safe medicines. Then I want to refer again to the new method to be introduced in 2012. It is important to be systematic in terms of how new technologies or methods, new medicines, new medicines are introduced and introduced into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2150	It is not the task of the President to judge whether this line change was above or below the de minimis limit, but it is his job to establish that the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2168	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2177	An overall committee addresses the challenges facing Norway in early intervention in diagnosis. In early intervention, both reducing the need for treatment and increasing the success rates for those receiving treatment. An overall committee also believes that it is important to reduce the time from patients to suspect cancer, investigation and treatment. An overall committee refers to the consultation on the proposal, where it appeared that approx. 80 pst. of patients suspected of serious disease, so-called occult cancer, are relatively easy to diagnose, while 20 pst. will need further investigation by, for example: university hospitals with even wider specialist environments. It is also very pleasant that a joint committee is committed to building on the many good experiences gained after the establishment of breast-diagnosis centres, and refers to the obvious benefit of patients and dentists having a clear address to deal with. Finding out in a time-consuming specialist healthcare service can be improved by clearer focus, so that even fixed doctors, who also labor, can help their patients to a clarification. The Progress Party, together with the bourgeois parties, believes that the experience seen from Denmark, where a clear address for diagnosis in combination with clear deadlines shows a decline in time from suspicion of serious illness to treatment. Our recommendation is to launch an investigation into diagnostic centres in Norway, and to that end also to put up a temptation for patients to receive follow-up. In a pilot study from the diagnosis centre of the Danish Regional Hospital Silkeborg, where a study of 143 patient trials is referred to as occult cancer, i.e. with unclear symptoms, cancer was found in approximately 15 pst. of the cases. We believe that the fact that cancer is detected just as often for patients with unclear symptoms supports the need for specialised diagnostic centres to be established in Norway as well. The conclusion drawn in the Danish survey is that it feels that it supports the fact that it is important not to stop diagnosis if there are still opportunities to exclude cancer. The Progress Party therefore believes that diagnostic centres play an important role also for diseases other than cancer, and contribute to better diagnosis and thus treatment of a number of patients in addition to those who are diagnosed with cancer. This is not the time to say happy. It's not time to say that we're at the top of the world for some cancers, and it's not time to say that others have introduced this because they were worse than us in Norway. No, the time has come to get the tool in place, to give all those who work in cancer care, the tools they deserve, and not least to give cancer patients and other patients what they deserve. It does not agree with objectives and well-intentioned words. The time has come to act. With those words, I would like to mention the suggestions that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2207	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2210	Like the rapporteur, I would like to point out that the Committee has agreed on many aspects of this matter. Early intervention in the diagnosis of cancer is important. Therefore, the government has introduced a standard deadline of 20 working days for patients with cancer. The aim is to reduce the time between suspicion of cancer and initiation of investigation and treatment. In the open hearing on this proposal for a representative, it was found that in approx. 80 pst. of cases where a serious illness is suspected, it is relatively easy to diagnose, while the remaining 20 pst. will need further studies by, for example: specialist hospital. I am pleased that the Council of State will make demands on health companies to continue their work on improving patient progressions for cancer patients. In this work, it is also important that the Ministry indicates that they will have ongoing dialogue with the relevant professional communities to ensure that all input and advice that can lead to improvements is included. The diagnostic process is essential to ensure timely and correct treatment. I have noted that the Council of State has reported that the theme will be affected more broadly in the announcement to the Stortinget on quality and patient safety. It is also worth mentioning that many hospitals have a broad range of disciplines that are in practice considered to be centres for cancer diagnostics. It is important to ensure further building and stability around such disciplines. For some cancer patients there will be a need for longer than 20 working days, to estimate that 80 pst. could be within the time limits. The course of more than 20 days may be necessary when the medical condition so requires. The lead time is the norm and the leader of the organisation of health care establishments and requires them to take the necessary measures to remove bottlenecks. Many health businesses are already doing a thorough job in this field and have achieved good results in order to reduce their lead time. The question of setting up own diagnostic centres as an addition to or replacement for the current system raises some issues, such as the level of applicability if compared with, for example, breast diagnostic centres. For some cancer cases, investigation models adapted to more unclear symptom images will be needed. Therefore, it is important that regional health businesses do a good job of reviewing the organisation of patient processes for cancer patients with a view to achieving the recommended lead-time. I would also like to mention that the patient history in Denmark, where diagnostic centres have been used, is longer than that in Norway. Better diagnostic tools, such as PET scanners, have now come as an important additional tool in cancer diagnostics and will be available for use in our major hospitals – thereby contributing to better and more holistic patient pathways. Government parties recommend that the proposal for self-diagnosis centres be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2238	Although many today have mentioned that Norway is on the world stage in the survival of cancer, it is probably that opinion of a slightly too general nature in view of the reality of the study, which deals with three very specific types of cancer. If one looks at the review of the risk of Norwegian cancer treatment presented in 2010, there is a high risk in Norway that diagnostic errors occur, which can most likely have serious consequences and fatal outcomes for patients. About 28,000 people a year have cancer in Norway, of which 10,000 have cancer with fatal outcome. Of the 28,000, about 14,000 have what might be called blurred symptoms. In other words, the doctor does not write on the reference to the hospital that here there is a suspicion of breast cancer, here there is a suspicion of intestinal cancer, here there is a suspicion of prostate cancer – no, here the doctor writes that there is a need for it and that test, because the doctor needs to know more, to know if there is anything wrong with the patient, and what is wrong. It is for these patients that there is the greatest risk of delayed diagnosis, because one study is sent first, returns to the prescriber, is then sent to the next study, returns to the prescriber – and this repeats over and over again. These patients will not enjoy any kind of government time course for cancer patients, because by definition they are not cancer patients. Unfortunately, experience from both the United Kingdom and Denmark shows that the type of course that the government has set up – and that is good, do not misunderstand me – if you do not follow up the second half of cancer patients, can actually lead to a delayed diagnosis for this half, precisely because there is a suspicion of cancer on the referral, gets a priority in front of this group. That's why the Right is very concerned that we need to have a strategy also for those cancer patients where you didn't have a clear suspicion of cancer, but as it turns out you have cancer. And as the rapporteur pointed out: the experience from Denmark shows that among those who are referred to with unclear symptoms, there is an almost equal percentage who have cancer, as among those who are referred with suspicion of cancer in the referral from the decree. It shows how important it is to meet this patient group with the same offer and with the same seriousness. Waiting for a long time with diagnosis — and therefore with cancer treatment — can have very serious outcomes. Therefore, the opposition considers that it is not enough just to leave to the four regional health establishments to think about how to deal with this. Our concern is that we will now be so focused on achieving the clear goals that the government has set for those who are suspected of having cancer that we will not give sufficient attention to the half of cancer patients where there is no clear suspicion of cancer. Then we can experience what was experienced in the United Kingdom and in Denmark. Here one must take political responsibility – also towards those with unclear symptoms – and establish diagnostic centres. I myself have visited Silkeborg – and the diagnostic center there – and it is quite obvious why it works well. You're met by a responsible coordinator who makes sure you go through a perfectly defined number of samples, like 80 pst. gives a reply within a few days. This is a completely different situation from that of the Norwegian healthcare system, although there are of course very good examples of how in different hospitals the offer has been organised for those patients where there is a clear suspicion of cancer – such as intestinal cancer in Tromsø, prostate cancer in Telemark or breast cancer in Stavanger. But this is the next step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2255	I'm not going to keep a very long article on this. The government party does not support the proposal, because we do not think it makes sense. Right proposes to create diagnostics centers with proprietary diagnostics in Norway. They will set a deadline for patients to be followed by being referred to diagnostic centres. Diagnosis centres shall, according to the proposers, ensure Norwegian patients good and rapid treatment with early diagnosis in complex disease images. And further: that no patients who come in with symptoms are passed on until either disease is diagnosed, or a treatment or follow-up process is planned. To take it first, to ensure good and fast treatment and early diagnosis by complex disease images. Then my question is, But isn't that what we have hospitals for in Norway? And the second, that no one should be sent out before disease is diagnosed or treatment scheduled. It's also a clear task for today's specialist health service. The intent behind it is good, but the solution is something we don't support. Sickhouses must be able to organize their services to achieve what the proposers are busy about. The example that we have with the establishment of breast diagnostic centers gives important experiences that one can build on. Creating own financing arrangements and deadlines only reminds us of increased bureaucracy. The Health Inspectorate's report on the risk picture in Norwegian cancer treatment pointed to three areas that are particularly important when it comes to risk: the one was distribution logistics, the other was information flow, and the third was complication monitoring. Its diagnosis, as mentioned in this proposal for a representative, is a risk. Better processes can do a lot of things within the current system. There is also now a normative and leading deadline for patient access before cancer that underpins this. Within a framework of a total of 20 working days, referral assessment shall take place within five, outsourcing ten and initiation of treatment within 20 days. Some will take longer. And then I want to finalize that cancer diagnostics is not something that is just left to the four regional health care agencies. Many cancer diagnostics start in general practice and are made in general practice. It occurs in the primary care services, and much of the delay may be in the patient himself, who is not in contact, and some delays are in the hands of the prescriber. But it's not like a patient gets in and shows the patient further with suspicion of cancer. You do the first tests yourself. It'll be a simplification to think that a diagnostic center should take care of all patients where a suspect cancer. Then there will be many patients to show further. So the determinations are important in detecting cancer, and they are important in their efforts to avoid late diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2270	In my view, this is an important and exciting proposal for a representative. I think the establishment of diagnostic centres in Norway could help many people get a much more effective and faster treatment, and that is the whole point of the proposal. Especially important will it be for patients with unclear symptoms. Too many patients today go too long before they are taken seriously when non-specific symptoms report. I think we all know someone who was diagnosed too late, at least I do – I have several examples, also completely fresh. The cancer association also says that too many people wait too long, get the upresis diagnosis and sometimes the wrong diagnosis. In consultation with the Committee on this proposal, the Cancer Association said that their experience is that today’s competence for making a diagnosis is too fragmented and that there are too few professionals to perform the job required. The Cancer Association also agrees with the proposers that it should be possible to start setting up diagnostic centres where there are now PET scanners. The Foundation Within 48 hours was also in consultation. They conclude that the period from the suspicion of cancer to diagnosis is essential for survival. Anyone who has been in such a situation where the suspicion of disease has arisen knows that this period is also humanly very demanding and distressing. Not knowing is one of the worst things you can experience. Then it is true that all the political parties, the hearing bodies in connection with the proposal for a representative and also the Minister for Health agree – if I have understood correctly – that rapid diagnosis is important and crucial. In that I believe that there is also a recognition that we are not good enough in our healthcare system. Nevertheless, the government parties will not support the proposal to set up their own diagnostic centres, nor will the proposal for deadlines for follow-up by reference to different types of cancer. The Government Parties state in their comments: ‘The majority refers to the description by the Council of State of a wide range of disciplines in hospitals which are considered to be in practice centres for cancer diagnostics.’ Such a comment shows, I believe, that the government parties have not been sufficiently involved in the intention and tasks of a diagnostic centre, nor perhaps in how the hospitals operate today on suspicion of cancer. Because if it is the case that professionals act as a diagnostic centre in the cancer area today, I assume that the user organisations that have expressed their opinion on Document No. The 8-proposal, which would simply say that we do, we do not support it. They have opposed it, and they believe that we need it. In my opinion, it is also wise sometimes to look beyond the borders of the country. In this case, Denmark may refer to experience in which a clear address for diagnosis, in combination with clear deadlines, indicates a decline in time from suspicion of serious illness to treatment. This has happened at the Danish diagnostic centres. The Council of State emphasises that she has introduced time-limits for patients on cancer. Within a 20-day framework, evaluation and investigation shall be carried out and treatment initiated. The government has determined that no delay should occur for patients in cancer treatment. But it still happens every day, we've seen a lot of examples in the media in the last few weeks and days. It's not certain at all that it's enough for the Council of State to say that, I think it needs to be a little bit of efficient organization and structure for it. We can get that through our own diagnostic centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2290	The proposers have put an important issue on the agenda, which I am very concerned about, and on which the government is therefore working closely. I have recently met cancer specialists from Norway and representatives from the Danish Health Board to learn about better and faster cancer treatment. The recent OECD report, which we have mentioned several times, compares survival after cervical cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer in OECD countries. It is good to note that Norway is very good at treating these cancers. Such survival rates — together with screening data — are considered as key factors in assessing the effectiveness of treatment provision in each country. But that doesn't mean everything's hurt well. The representative Höie mentioned the Health Inspectorate's report, and that report was just one of the reasons why I made demands for lead times for patients on cancer treatment. In Norway too, too many people with a suspected cancer experience that it takes too long before investigation and treatment starts. Numbers from the Norwegian Patient Register show that there are still many patients who have to wait more than 20 working days after referral until treatment starts. Best is the situation for women with breast cancer, there 64 pst. is treated within 20 days of receipt of a referral. I would also like to say that there are many hospitals that have done a great job to get to the goal, and that are in the goal with regard to the recommendations already. Based on professional recommendations, this summer I set deadlines for the hospital investigation and treatment of cancer. Within a framework of 20 working days, the referral shall be evaluated within five days, the patient shall be investigated within 10 days and treatment shall start within 20 days. In the mission of the regional health enterprises for 2012, 80 pst will be required. cancer patients shall be offered within these time limits. Furthermore, patients who are suspected of cancer are required to be appointed to a separate contact person at the hospital. The contact person shall inform about rights and waiting times and keep track of what happens when. The contact person shall also be able to intervene in the event of delays and deviations. The Health Directorate will be instructed to measure the follow-up of the hospital to the deadlines for patients with breast cancer, lung cancer and colon cancer. Multiple cancers shall be added later. There is much that can and must be done better in the cancer area. The shortest possible time from suspicion of cancer to diagnosis is generally important for most patients, then also as soon as possible treatment. It is essential that the decision-maker and the hospital work together to make the correct diagnosis. When the warden suspects a serious illness, this must be clearly stated in the reference to the hospital. The hospital must respond quickly to the referral so that the patient can be investigated without undue delay. It is up to the individual hospital to organise services to meet the deadlines and quality requirements for cancer treatment. The experience with breast diagnostic centres is good, but it is not initially given that the same model of organisation is useful in all areas of cancer treatment in all hospitals. Norway is very successful in international comparisons of survival after cancer treatment. In the Nordic region, we are very close to each other in several areas. But we have to and can get even better. It is therefore important that hospitals now have full pressure to meet deadlines and provide good quality in cancer treatment. Diagnosis centres and, in particular, good patient profiles are important measures. But I am convinced that cancer treatment is best served by the fact that we – as politicians – grant and demand while the Health Directorate provides guidelines, and hospitals and professionals organise treatment and patient processes. Neither uncritical market management nor policy detailing will benefit patients. The reason we have such good results in Norwegian cancer treatment is that cancer doctors have the freedom to do their job in a strong and well-organised public health service. I can promise that I will still make tough demands and give doctors the opportunity to work on what they are best at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2320	First, let me just get into the representative Toppe, who uses the word ‘bureaucratic’ if something you see has worked in other countries, which provide good results for patients, with higher survival than you have had in the past. In fact, we think it is worth considering in Norway too, even though we have higher survival than Denmark had before. But I want to pursue the Council of State in terms of something I feel she does not respond to in connection with the proposal that is the basis for the treatment today, which the representative Höie was also in, namely, all the patients that it turns out later had cancer, but where it was not suspected. They will be losing their way into the system that the Council of State has now called for, and we are sincerely concerned that it will not happen. Since the Council of State and her party and cooperating parties reject the proposal today, my question is: What kind of system does she think she has for these patients who fall outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2327	I very much agree that it might be wise to look at other countries. But it must be a crossroads of thought for the opposition and the proposers when they see the results they have in Denmark in relation to the results in Norway. In fact, the results are better for patient progression and treatment in Norway than they are in Denmark. So I can't quite see what's going to be the good examples. So that doesn't mean that diagnostic centers aren't good, because it's definitely good in some cases, and it also shows some of the diagnostic centers that we have in Norway, that they're very good. But it's not certain that this is the right thing to do for all types of cancers, even if it's for someone. Then I understand that this is something you should have for those who may have unclear symptoms – that is at least how I perceive it. It is not a matter of losing them, for if a regular doctor suspects that they may be cancer and this may be serious, they should be referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2336	It may well be that the Right and the Opposition have not found the optimal solution here, and Denmark may not have found the optimal solution. So my question to the Council of State is, what is the government's answer to those patients who are not suspected of cancer, but where there are unclear symptoms, and where it turns out afterwards that there was cancer? What is the government's strategy for this half of Norwegian cancer patients to have an offer as good as those suspected of cancer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2341	I think it is very important that if a permanent resident suspects that there is a serious disease, that it may be cancer, he or she must refer to further investigations immediately. That's also true. It is also the case that we need to be better informed about guidelines and deadlines, etc. – what we've had a lot of focus on. Then I would say that once we have set these requirements for the hospitals, and have the objectives of that 80 pst. should be in the process of treatment within 20 days, there is, in fact, a very strong requirement for hospitals to set up their logistics in such a way that they can do it. If a hospital finds out that they need an unspecified diagnostic centre, it is wise that the professionals there sit together and agree on how to set it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2350	I have a simple question for the Council of State. Is the Council of State agreeing with what the majority refers to in the position, as I read in my statement, that there are, in fact, a wide range of disciplines at the hospitals that are in practice considered to be centres of diagnosis in the field of cancer? It's in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2357	State Council of Davøy. - No, State Councillor Stroem-Erichsen. Sorry, it was just a thought that hit me!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2360	It's not very strange, so late in the day! The most important thing here is that there will be systematic treatment of patients who are found to have cancer – systematics to get them referred to, get them as early as possible from their decision-makers and beyond, and that hospitals treat them as quickly as they should, through the system, so that we achieve the goals set. It's the most important thing. So it will be very different how different hospitals behave. For example, there is a large difference on the basis of patients. Oslo and other places. But I am absolutely convinced that it is important that politicians and the Stortinge place demands, grant money to the hospitals, and that doctors and health professionals themselves set up how they think it is best to organise it, within the requirements set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2369	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2374	I just want to end today's health debate with a call for the Minister of Health to really address this issue and the debate about what to do for the half of cancer patients who don't have a clear cancer suspicion from their permanent staff. The proposal from the Right and the opposition is not bad. It's not promoted to plague the government, but it's promoted because one actually is seriously concerned that one by the government is about to introduce a strategy that only reaches half of those who get cancer, and we're seriously concerned that the other half can become the loser in such a system. There is no doubt that health businesses are now dedicated and committed to achieving government objectives. We may disagree on what legal and other means we should use to achieve those objectives, but I fully share the Council of State's assessment that health businesses are dedicated and committed to achieving these objectives. There's reason to be concerned then that they ignore the other half in a tough priority in everyday life. If the government doesn't have any steering signals in relation to it, if the government doesn't have any attention in that area, we'll be very quick, in one to two years' time, with the experience that one got in both the United Kingdom and Denmark, that someone lost on such a strategy. I really don't want that to happen, and I hope that the Council of State will take this discussion, and not least the signals that came to the conference to which the Council of State referred, where this was also a central issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2385	I am pleased with one thing just in this debate, and it is that the representative Bent Höie, who is the head of the committee, has twice expressed his confidence that regional health companies will now work to meet the requirements set by the government, as there has been so much doubt. It is good that the chairperson of the Committee agrees and trusts that hospitals will do so. And that's also how you kind of can't ignore everyone else. The critical thing about measuring some things is maybe you don't do what you don't measure. But all the patients will come into the same measuring system. Then I very much agree that we also have to make demands to the decision-makers that they actually refer when they suspect a serious illness. However, Norway is so different, there are so different densities in both population and cases of unclear symptoms that it would be right for hospitals themselves to assess how they are doing, whether they are doing it in their own diagnostic centres, or whether it is done in specific diagnostic centres. What's important here is that we get even better at detecting cancer, that we treat cancer patients within a recommended course, and that patients experience that they are well cared for when they get such a serious diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2396	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2412	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2421	Sometimes one can get the impression that the main goal of politicians is to disagree to disagree. Then it is all the better that, in this case, we are able to work together unanimously on something that will solve a problem we are concerned with, regardless of political colour, namely, that children and young people should not develop a criminal career, but that they should be treated as they are – children and young people in a vulnerable phase of life. I want to commend the resignation of the Grand Mountains for his commitment to this topic, and I want to thank a united and united committee for a good cooperation in dealing with this important matter. It is a common political objective that children, as a clear rule, should not be put in prison, but that instead it is desirable to increase the use of alternative responses to children who commit crime. The proposed legislation will help to improve the legal status of young people by apprehension, detention, punishment and enforcement. The Committee sees this as an overall approach, and a follow-up to the joint desire of the Grand Duchy and the Government to take more targeted action against children and young people committing crime, including: related to the prevention, increased use of conflict advice and criminal response with rehabilitation content. Prior to judgment, a number of measures are proposed: shorter deadlines for manufacture, shorter deadlines for transfer from police detention, compulsory attendance of child protection services at prison meetings. In the event of more serious crime, arrest and custody may continue to be relevant for children. The Committee is particularly concerned that today the police have not adapted their arrest for children. The so-called smooth cells are only small rooms, equipped with mattress and toilet. The Association of Lawyers, in consultation with the Committee, was aware that, like the Committee, they require that the government in the future facilitate a considerable improvement in the police detention facilities for children and young people. The legislative proposal also proposes several changes related to the way in which penalties are to be imposed. The so-called juvenile punishment is not, as someone might initially think, a puzzled way of thinking about punishment and rehabilitation. That's the exact opposite. The Youth Penalty shall be a stronger form of response from society than exoneration of charges, social penalties or conditional imprisonment, and will be far more effective in preventing crime. In both the choice of juvenile punishment as a criminal response and the definition of the content of the youth plans, the proposed law will continue to provide opportunities for differentiating the criminal evaluation and the content of the plan, e.g.: If you compare a 15-year-old and a 17-year-old. In parallel with the introduction of juvenile punishment, a unanimous committee requires the launch of a research project that evaluates the impact of the criminal response itself, both for victims and for the perpetrator. The Committee is concerned that it requires a very high level of involvement of the offender’s private networks and all parts of the justice sector and other public bodies in order to contribute to individualised follow-up. Also insults must be able to be involved, at your own discretion. Child protection is an obligation to attend prison meetings, but child protection also plays an important role in the implementation of the Youth Penalty itself and in the provision of compensation in so-called youth units. In the Committee's view, this is a key challenge in making the law work. Better cooperation between child protection and criminal care is essential to improve the follow-up of the child. Everyone has seen that child protection is under pressure and that some children and young people already have a very difficult relationship with child protection. The so-called "JustisProfessors" have given clear feedback on just that. It is therefore important to look at the dimensioning of child protection; the legal basis, the municipal structure, the rotational arrangements, the attitudes of the auxiliaries, etc. The Committee is also very clear that efforts to put in place sufficient places in youth units are being stepped up, that transnational teams related to youth units will be put in place, and not least that funding schemes of so-called 12-sonance, which do not involve shifting responsibility, need to be put in place. The Committee assumes that the government is investigating financial instruments that provide incentives to choose the best possible solution for individual children and young people, in the context of an open consultation with the Child Protection Officer and the Children’s Ombudsman. However, young people will not always be the option, so the Committee also asks the government, in the context of the revised national budget, to give feedback on how this is done. In sum, in the opinion of the Committee, this proposal improves the legal status of children and young people when they are apprehended, cared for, the determination of penalties and the implementation of penalties. I recommend, on behalf of the Committee, that the Storting should conclude unanimously on the proposal for a unanimous decision by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2447	‘A little light in childhood – except some blue lights sometimes. Grown up with a lot of Christmas and a computer game. When did you think I should have learned?’ These are words from one of the Justice Professionals – young people who unfortunately have a lot of knowledge and experience in the body, because of crimes and criminal reactions. One of these Justice professionals goes on to say, ‘We will be stopped, do not continue to do criminal things.’ The proposition of children and punishment, which we are dealing with today, addresses a great many of the issues we are facing with regard to children and criminal acts. The government deserves tribute for a very good piece of work, and we are also very pleased that there is cross-political agreement on all the proposals in the proposal. Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough review of the proposals, both in the comments and in his statement. We are painfully aware that a large majority of those who commit serious criminal acts have had a difficult childhood. This means that much could have been prevented if we had taken action at an earlier time. We need more knowledge about, and thus opportunities to reveal, who is at risk in order to develop everything from social and mental problems to drug problems and a criminal career. We've become more conscious in recent years, but we're far from good enough. This effort must continue! Of course, when some children and young people commit criminal acts, society must respond. Youths themselves have clear speech: they will be stopped, they will have help to live a normal, law-abiding life. The question is, of course, how best to contribute to this as a society. We believe that the proposal on the new form of punishment, the juvenile punishment, is a good proposal. The Youth Penalty is intended to be exactly what young people themselves demand, with a strong involvement of relevant actors and obligatory approaches that will help them on the right track. This criminal response shall be individualised and shall be carried out outside prison and preferably in the neighbourhood of young people, where appropriate. Important qualifiers are obliging activities such as school or work, bottling, barring, limiting and understanding the consequences of their criminal acts to those who are exposed to the acts. Everyone agrees that children should not be in prison. Nevertheless, we must recognize that a few young people in periods must be protected from themselves and that society must be protected from them. The government is therefore proposing a further development of the so-called youth units. Experience so far with the youth units in Bergen is good. The reasons why this is an action that appears to have a good impact are the use of large resources with good multidisciplinary competence. Even the child ombudsman sees that this action gives good follow-up to the young people who use it. Putting children in youth centres should be an absolute last resort because it is a prison. Because of the targeted and good work, young people will benefit from being there. But, of course, the danger may be that this form of punishment is judged to be so appropriate that more people are judged to be acquitted in youth units. In the long term, this may lead to more young people being put in prison. Such a development is not what we want, and we must therefore follow closely. I will finish my post as I began, with some words from one of the JustisProfessors: ‘I think love can be used more than we use it today. We who regularly visit the smooth cell may have had too little love." That is what I think is wise words from a youth who would probably have had a different life if he had received more care and love as a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2486	There is a excruciating need to expose children and young people to a holistic aid system around them. This makes today's debate theme about children and punishment very visible. This is about the future of young people who, by engaging in criminal acts, may be developing a criminal career that lasts for years, perhaps out of life. In a sense, the measures contained in the legislative proposal reflect a spirit of cooperation reform. Service providers and auxiliary services shall coordinate their work and interact better, and one shall have a better follow-up of the individual from many points of view. Difficult growing-up conditions and poor homes are often pointed to when things go wrong with young people, and that is of course relevant. But it's not like this is the explanation of everything. Nor does it exempt young people from responsibility for their own actions that they have experienced something wrong in childhood. This should, of course, be an important part of the background to how we work to prevent crime, how we can better catch up with the young people who need help. It should be part of the background when we consider taking action when someone has committed a crime. The big meeting arrangement is an example of what I believe in that way. Several important actors are invited to participate and contribute. The young perpetrator himself needs to make an effort and hopefully become more aware of what he has done, and think about what he wants to do with his life. One of the measures contained in the bill is that the police are required to notify child protection when it is relevant to demand the imprisonment of a child under the age of 18 and that child protection will have an obligation to meet at the prison meeting and to inform about the need for, and work on, action for, the child. This is an important element for better prevention. Everything must be put in place to stop a criminal racetrack at first. It seemed that a mass accumulation today decided that there is hope for everyone. What I mean is more prominent in just this matter than in other matters where we discuss crime and punishment. Twice political agreement on being optimistic is a good starting point. It is good that we can sometimes share views on both objectives and tools that should be used to achieve the goal. It is important for a well-functioning and good society that everyone should actually have the most equal chance of being a person of benefit – contributors to society, but not just that; the most possible must have the chance to live good, rich and meaningful lives. When, in addition to many other measures, we also create own youth units for those who have committed serious and/or repeated offences, it is because one has to admit that some actually need stricter responses with a high level of control over a period of time. I mean, we believe that there's hope for everyone. Such youth units do not close to this hope. In order for those who are faced with this kind of punishment, at best to be able to cope well for the rest of their lives, punishment and follow-up that meet their actions and the threat they can currently pose to society is necessary. The goal is to prevent negative development from continuing. I finally refer to the detailed and good contribution to the case-speaker André Oktay Dahl, and also the good report by the representative Torve. We take the new laws a sensible step further, and we all hope that the experience with all the new measures will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2528	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2537	I point out that in March of this year, the Storting discussed the same issue that we are about to deal with today, namely, the proposal to lower the share capital requirement for limited liability companies. At the time, a number chose to attach the matter to the protocol – this is because the report and setting by lawyer Gudmund Knudsen was on the phone. There was a broad cross-political consensus at the time on the issue of capital requirements in the share laws. Now things have been hearing, and the government has made a proposition on this, where the minimum capital requirement is reduced from today's NOK 100000 to NOK 30000. I am pleased that the government came back to Stortinget with this proposal as soon as possible. The government has great ambitions when it comes to establishing simpler rules for business. This proposal is thus an important step in this direction. In addition, the change in the requirement will be a harmonisation with our neighbouring countries and, at the same time, a good response to the so-called NUFs, i.e. Norwegian-registered foreign companies. According to the information I received from the NHO, 16 pst have been registered. fewer NUFs now than at the same time last year. Since the government's proposal became known in September this year, we can now record that the number of new NUFs is about half in October compared to last year's October. Now I'm not going to use this as a truth witness, but it might be an indication that it was wise to take this grip fast. In other words, it may seem that government medicine already works. In the event of an insolvency, which is called, it is not suggested in the proposition that the fourth paragraph of Sections 2 to 8 is amended to the effect that if part of the paid-in share capital is to be covered by the formation costs, such costs may be covered by the paid-in share capital. As a consequence, after the opening balance sheet, equity will be lower than equity capital, and the formation costs will then stand as a debt item in the opening balance sheet. Therefore, it cannot be required that the equity is greater than or equal to the share capital in these cases. This has now been set up by the Committee, which will change both the stock laws and the public stock laws. A minority in the Committee proposes to amend the first paragraph of Section 2-8 so that the requirement for the preparation of the opening balance sheet does not apply. The proposal is also in line with the report to Mr Gudmund Knudsen, and I am also very much in favour of the proposal. However, when the majority do not choose to vote in favour of this proposal now, this is because the department wants to consider this issue together with the other parts of Gudmund Knudsen's statement a little later. I have a lot of understanding for that. The important thing now, what is urgent – and what the proposition also deals with – is the reduction of minimum capital requirements. That's why, in our opinion, it's a little unprofessional to pick out single items in a big deal, without taking into account the whole report to Knudsen. As I said, I strongly believe that a reduction in the minimum capital requirement will have a major impact on several new start-ups. I also stated that in the spring, when Stortinget dealt with the matter last time. In the same debate, I asked that the government still be able to assess whether «the capital requirement can be assessed separately and brought forward quickly before the Storting». We have now received that, and I look forward to collecting the entire report from Dr. Gudmund Knudsen to simplify and modernise Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2560	The rapporteur said in his speech that this was an important measure to simplify and modernise the framework conditions for Norwegian business, and we all agree on that. But there is reason to remember that this has taken a long time for the sitting government to admit. As the rapporteur certainly remembers from previous periods of ageing, there has not been much interest from the current government in making proposals for simplification and modernisation on this issue or other issues that are important for Norwegian business. Now the government has come with this with a simplified audit obligation for smaller limited liability companies, and then you come with this now, but there is reason to remember that this would not have been brought by the government without significant pressure from business organisations and from the opposition in the Stortinget. Therefore, it is only to welcome the government to the Storting with similar measures. In the case of property taxes, for example, retention obligations — there is a long list of measures that can be implemented quickly if the government is really interested in modernising the Norwegian business code. I feel that it is important to clarify this after the statements by the rapporteur, so that we can find out how this matter has been dealt with in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2567	The President is uncertain whether the representative of Kielland Asmyhr will take up the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2570	That's what the representative Oktay Dahl does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2575	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr will not do that, but that's what André Oktay Dahl will do, which is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2578	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr wanted to address the proposal, but we agreed that I should do so on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right – so it is done. I agree with the previous speakers that it is a better-late-one-never-proposal that comes now, but then we should not complain that things are finally happening. This is good. However, it reminds us that we may need to reconsider the proposal made by the Right in the past, namely to have a permanent company law commission that can continuously assess the need for adjustments in relation to business needs, because this type of thematic approach in competition with all the other tasks of the Ministry of Justice is unlikely to have the highest priority. It is a good starting point to mention that the audit obligation for small enterprises applies in particular in the first years of life of an enterprise until it passes 5 million. kr. But what is being debated today are simplifications that apply at the very moment you're going to establish yourself, that is, before the operation is started. Now the entrepreneurs will need less capital than before, and it lowers the threshold to start a business. There is something the Norwegian society will need in the long term too, and it will perhaps later reduce the requirement for capital even more. The minority in the Committee has a proposal that will help entrepreneurs even more. In fact, it is still the case that an auditor must be involved, who must be paid when establishing a limited liability company. An opening balance sheet must be drawn up showing the company's assets and liabilities at the time the company is formed. This opening balance sheet must be confirmed by an auditor, even though the exact same information on assets and liabilities is already contained in another document which must also be drawn up, namely the instrument of incorporation itself. As the rapporteur pointed out, in the Knudsen investigation it was proposed to remove this double reporting. There was broad support in the consultation, even among those who control the tax situation of companies. Therefore, the Progress Party and the Right propose that entrepreneurs who set up companies with only cash should not create this opening balance. Then they not only save paperwork, but also costs to the auditor. We think it's some tens of millions to save for entrepreneurs here, and that's a relief we think they deserve already now. We're in a time when we see the rest of Europe struggling with the economy. It is even more important, then, that we make the adjustments and regulatory changes that can make more businesses see the light of day in Norway, so that we have more to face the decline with which we can also cross the borders of the country, with the financial crisis we are now seeing emerging at ever more serious speeds in Europe. Otherwise, the Right is pleased that this proposal was finally presented, but we also hope that the minority proposal that unfortunately is voted down today can be seriously assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2593	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2596	‘Simplify Norway’ is a dear centre- and Christian People’s Party slogan and is something Christian People’s Party is concerned about. We're concerned with simplifying and making it easier to lower the threshold to start and establish businesses. As we know, Norway is a country characterised by many small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why it's important to be able to make it easy for those who want to start their own little business. When we are discussing the share capital of a limited liability company today, it is important to think about what is the alternative to establishing a limited liability company. When one knows that there is an increasing number of people who choose to register enterprises abroad, the proposal under consideration today may be one of the proposals that help to ensure that the so-called NUFs are reduced, and may have more limited companies here. As the rapporteur was concerned about in his speech, one already sees that trend. One also sees that a lower share capital requirement in Sweden has contributed to the fact that there have been many more new start-ups of companies. It is an effect that one knows will come in Norway as well, and therefore the Christian People's Party is pleased with the proposal that now exists. We believe that this can help to make it easier, cheaper and better to establish a limited liability company in Norway. As I said, the Christian People's Party wants a simpler Norway. That is why the fight for simplification must continue. That is why we are also pleased that the government refers to the further examination of the Knudsen investigation and that there will be more proposals there. In Norway, we have several hundred thousand small businesses hit hard by an unnecessarily detailed reporting system and a complex regulatory framework. 80 pst. by Norwegian enterprises have fewer than five employees. In particular, the formwork is a problem for entrepreneurs. The Christian People's Party will abolish unnecessary laws and regulations and simplify reporting for business. The Christian People's Party wants a simplified stock law for small businesses, and we want to introduce sunset legislation both state and municipal. The rules and laws shall apply for a maximum period of 10 years before they may need to be re-adopted. The Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal, and we will also vote in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2609	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously agrees with the proposal to reduce the requirement for minimum share capital in the Share Act, as well as with the proposals that the share capital injected can be used to cover the costs of the formation of the limited liability company, and that the financial institution – and not just auditors – can confirm the share capital injected. Overall, these proposals represent opportunities to save significant amounts for the person who will form a limited liability company. While it costs at least NOK 100000 today plus the costs of formation to establish a limited liability company, in the future a limited liability company can be set up for NOK 30 000, including the costs of formation. The form of the partnership is the most widely used form of enterprise in Norway. As of today, there are more than 200,000 registered companies in the country. Therefore, the rules of the Share Act are of great importance to traders. The majority of limited liability companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope the changes that have been proposed give ground for start-ups. This proposal is part of a major project aimed at simplifying and modernising the Share Act. Lawyer Gudmund Knudsen, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, has identified simplifications of the Share Act. The study on the simplification and modernisation of the Shares Act was issued on 7 January this year. Although the investigation concerns all limited liability companies and proposes changes to the share law regardless of the size of the companies, the investigation was aimed in particular at the needs of the small limited liability companies. The investigation also promotes other important proposals for simplification and modernisation of the Shares Act, including: simpler rules for the formation of limited liability companies and rules giving companies greater freedom to choose how they will organise themselves. Some decorations are also proposed in the rules on credit to own shareholders and the acquisition of own shares by the company. The investigation was in consultation until 19 April this year, and there was a great deal of interest in this work among the hearing bodies. The greatest attention was given to the proposal to reduce the requirement for the minimum share capital of the limited liability companies. Here, for the first time, there was broad support in the consultation round, and for the second, there was a clear desire from industry that this change should come quickly. It's easy to understand this desire. Many European countries have revised their company law in recent years, including a reduction in the requirement for minimum share capital. It is desirable that Norwegian law at this point becomes more competitive. It would benefit both traders and the public that business activities take place in the framework of the Share Act rather than through Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises. This consideration has also been promoted in the hearing. The proposal that the share contribution may be used to cover the costs of formation and the proposal that financial institutions should also be able to confirm that the company has received the share contribution was also widely supported in the consultation round. These proposals are in a certain context with the proposal to reduce the minimum capital requirement, because the proposals collectively make the formation of the limited liability company easier and cheaper. On this basis, it was reasonable to examine these three proposals separately from the rest of the proposals in the investigation. This allowed for faster treatment. The government will come back with its own proposal on the other proposals in the Knudsen investigation. The Soria Moria II Declaration explicitly mentions business simplification – in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises – and the government's work on the Shares Act is a follow-up. Simplification must also be seen in the context of other government measures. In particular, I mention the new rules on exemption from the audit obligation for small limited liability companies that entered into force on 1 May this year. In addition, I point to the work of facilitating electronic reporting through Altin. The government has also presented a numerical target to reduce the costs to businesses. Overall, the measures I have been subjected to above represent significant simplifications and savings for the limited liability companies, and they also contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian rules. In Sweden, there was a clear increase in the creation of limited liability companies after the requirement for the minimum share capital that was lowered from NOK 100000 to NOK 50000. I hope that we will see similar developments in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2629	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2632	I refer to the case-speaker's good review of the changes that are going on here, and I'm very happy with the committee that we're getting another simplification decision in place. The simplification measure that the government has seen is actually 10 billion. kr by 2015, and we have as our goal to take half of this period. The reduction in the share capital from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000 is an important and correct exercise. This is likely to result – as others have said here – in a sharp reduction in the number of NUFs, which I think everyone here in the Chamber finds very inconvenient. The fact that one can also benefit from the share capital of the formation costs also underpins the fact that the claim is in fact lower than the NOK 30 000 that we have said. The fact that a financial institution can confirm instead of an auditor when it comes to share capital in ringing coins is probably all here in the hall – perhaps with the exception of whether there is an auditor here – is some about. The work on simplification targets is a work that this government has seen high on the agenda, and that it will be working on continuously. Reduction in the number of forms and minor work on forms, contributing to value creation. I want to get ahead of the work done with Altinn I and Altinn II. It's a significant simplification, via electronic reporting, we're talking about here. The waiver of the audit obligation for small limited liability companies is another simplification measure, which was even boasted and referred to by the NHO Director as ‘time simplification measures’. I would like to agree with a joint committee, which says that Norway should be a country where it is attractive to establish a limited liability company, and that this measure makes it cheaper, simpler and better to establish a limited liability company. Finally, I would like to say something about competitiveness. It is important that it is easy to establish a limited company, but the best goal of good competitiveness is that one has competitive businesses and profitable jobs, and we have that in Norway today. Today I was at a conference held by LO, Norwegian Industry and Energy Norway on the ‘common platform for value creation’. There was Trond Giske one of the speakers, and he could tell that he looked at the number of jobs in industry and mining, and it had increased by 20,000 – I think he said in the last six months. I thought it was very nice to have this nutrition increased too. At the same time, we also know that the decline in cyclical outturns was reversed at the beginning of 2010, and since the trend has gone up. I am very pleased about this. Then I look forward to a further discussion on other simplification measures, which we will probably have in this committee as well as in other committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2653	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1234]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2669	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2678	Today we are dealing with a long-awaited case, namely the issue of the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. Today we are going to decide to go to the purchase of 16 new rescue helicopters, modern, serious search and rescue helicopters to mainland Norway, to replace today's Sea King helicopters. This means a significant investment in rescue and preparedness in Norway when the new helicopters are fully phased in by 2020. So today, we are making an important decision to strengthen and improve the rescue helicopter service’s most important task of resolving societal tasks such as search, rescue, air ambulances and other important tasks. In addition, the Storting will also adopt an option of up to six helicopters for future needs and to meet the need for rescue capacity in the north. The total purchase framework is 16.8 billion. kr, which also includes investments for other purposes. equipment and spare parts and infrastructure investments, including: construction and landing sites. In the case of requirements for the new helicopters, there are significant range requirements, better severity characteristics and greater speed than is the case for today's Sea King. As a result, the new helicopters will be able to provide greater security for fishermen and others moving far from the coastline and in the north. Better search equipment will also facilitate better localisation of people in need. There is reason to note that the employee's helicopter service on Svalbard is also strengthened by two large helicopters. Today, the situation on Svalbard is such that the employee disposes of a large and medium-sized helicopter. It has been a discussion about the ministry planning an offer process that is open to all helicopter candidates who meet their requirements – both civil and militaryly registered vessels. Yes – but I find it difficult to understand that this will weaken preparedness, as some claim. The reason why the ministry is in favour of both civil and military registered helicopters in the supply process is that one in this way will have the broadest possible competition, which can be favoured by the state in the next round. Let me also add that regardless of the choice of helicopter, it's already decided that the defense is going to operate the rescue helicopters of the future. We have good experience of this, not least given that the military operational code is under full national control and may allow flights under very demanding conditions. As a result, this is a success factor, given that rescue helicopters are also to assist the civilian air ambulance service with mission when it has limitations due to the weather. Many have been concerned about progress in this matter. There are several reasons why things take time – not least that it took ESA time to deal with complaints, but also the external quality assurance of the project. But I'm going to leave it at this point. Today, there is every reason to be satisfied that there is now an important step forward in the process of replacing the old Sea King fleet with new and modern all-weather search and rescue helicopters that have greater speed, greater lifting capacity and longer reach. For all those who travel along the coast – fishermen, shipping, and those associated with offshore activity in some form – today must be a happy day. The grips we're now doing will increase security significantly, and more lives could be scared if the accident should occur. I am pleased that I can present a consensual setting for Stortinget today. It is important that the Stortinget stands united behind this huge investment. The progress party has made a few minority proposals in the configuration, but I expect them to do their own thing for them later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2701	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur for a good cooperation on the matter. This is an important matter. Despite its importance, it has taken a long time. Over several years we have experienced a lack of progress in the matter of acquiring new rescue helicopters. Let me, among other things. point out that the case was also debated in Stortinget in May 2002, where a thorough review of the challenges facing the rescue helicopter service was carried out at that time and in a future perspective. Let me stress that in many cases the quality of the rescue helicopter service is essential for life to be saved or not. Many who have their daily work along the coast, on offshore installations, as part of the fishing fleet or in other activities, place their trust in being helped and saved when the accident occurs. In addition, if you see the great values that these people share in providing for the nation of Norway, this is one of the most important focus in this case. For the Progress Party, the only proper focus has been – and is – the purely rescue professionals. I find that many people choose to talk a lot about the costs of this acquisition, but my clear view is that the most important thing to focus on is the needs of the rescue services overall. Let me then refer to the government's file where you refer to an external quality insurer, EKS. This one has done a calculation of whether it would be more reasonable to let the defense continue to operate the helicopter bases in the future, or whether civilians can do so. The investigation is very important and a central analysis before a final decision is taken. In this context, it may be pointed out that decisions are now to be taken for 30 years to come. It is important to have the best basis for decision. It is also noted that the EKS does not conclude that the defence is a preferred actor for the operation of the rescue helicopter service. With regard to the EKS report, it is exempt from publication by the Ministry and has therefore only been available to members of the Judicial Committee. The report was made available to the members of the Committee only at the end of the Committee's proceedings. The report should have been submitted at an earlier date. The report should instead have been published, as this is a matter of great public and public interest. The Advance Party believes that civil providers of some bases in the rescue services must be opened up. A problem with the rescue services is that the overall cost picture is very inconclusive. What a good rescue service costs is therefore unclear. That is why we believe that competition must be opened up. It will make it possible to compare the cost of the different bases and thus form an image of how much it actually costs. Thus, to the extent that today's rescue service does not act effectively enough with the resources allocated, it will be possible to make changes in operations so that the service achieves better results. Let me say a few words about the total helicopter readiness in Norway. This is particularly important in the context of the events of July 22nd this year, where it turned out that police and defence spent too much time getting helicopters involved in the action that was taking place. That is why the Progress Party believes that we need to have an investigation setting out a plan for overall preparedness and where rescue helicopters could play a role in police preparedness. One could imagine two to three helicopters being armored and thus able to be deployed for personnel transfer if needed by the police. Today, the facilities of the rescue services are well spread throughout the country and are therefore very suitable for such support to the police. Let me then comment on the basic structure of the rescue services. The base of Banak in Finnmark is located within the country and thus far from the coast. This may be essential for those in need of rapid assistance at sea. If you stay in the water off the coast, the chance of long survival is relatively small. If a base is on the coast, the time that passes before the helicopter comes out could be minimized considerably. It is also important to take into account what activity you will see in the sea areas outside Finnmark in the time to come. The sub-line agreement between Norway and Russia opens up much more traffic in these areas. And you can also point out the great distance between the base of Bodø and the base of Banak. These two bases form the preparedness for the whole of North Norway and thus also the northern regions. This suggests that, among other things: must consider the possibility to establish a new base for the rescue services located in Tromsø. The conditions that I have now pointed out speak for a review of the base structure. We therefore propose that we want a separate case with an assessment of how the future base structure should be designed. Finally, let me use a few words for the project organisation that is now set up and should be expanded to acquire new helicopters. It is used per date over 100 million. kr on the process. More than 30 people are working on the project, and more are going to be. Now the office facilities for the project are to be built for 20 million. kr. I hope the Council of State takes this very seriously and sees if this is necessary, and that you go through the way you have chosen to organise the project. I refer to the proposals that the Committee on Progress has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2729	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2732	Purchases of rescue helicopters are a very important decision. It has great significance for a large number of people. Fishermen, seafarers, outdoor stakeholders, employees on the platforms and otherwise in the maritime sector depend on a functional rescue service. The experience of the last decade has shown with all possible clarity that we must have a long-term perspective on such investments. When the decision to acquire Sea King was made, probably not many expected to be used for near 2020. In the coming years, it is likely that only Norway will have Sea King as its main rescue helicopter. This hampers repair and maintenance, in addition to the fact that there will be fewer technical upgrades available than on other helicopters. Furthermore, maintenance means that the number of operational rescue helicopters is at all times lower than that optimal. It is important that the process continues to be implemented rapidly, so that new rescue helicopters are operational as early as possible. Several investigations have been carried out in the past on the need for new rescue helicopters. The process of acquiring new rescue helicopters was launched in 1997, when the Fostervoll Committee pointed out the gap between the Sea King fleet and what should be expected of the material of the future. So it's likely to go more than 20 years from this recognition before new and modern rescue helicopters are operational. In the Committee's examination of the case, discussion has also focused on the competitive outsourcing of some of the bases and the basic structure itself. From the Right we have not gone into that debate now, but we have not closed the door to those debates either. We have taken into account that the further progress in the matter is important, and that we then want to focus on the fact that it is now the acquisition that is the central one. The cruel actions of the summer taught us that the interaction between emergency and emergency seats needs to be improved. Materials and personnel must be used across sectors. Communication and joint exercises must be given priority. Therefore, the right supports the assessment made that the rescue helicopters must operate within a multi-use concept. For the Right, it is essential that the further process be carried out as quickly as possible within a sound framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2749	The theme preparedness is an important and topical theme. We've had a long-standing process with the goal of buying new rescue helicopters. Now we're ready to spend 16.8 billion. kr on an investment we're going to live with for 30 years. It is a great and especially important lift to continue and improve a good readiness when the weather hosts as worst and conditions to fly with helicopters are as bad as possible. And it's not so rare in our long-range country that we have such relationships. The debate ends quickly on technical solutions and on different types of legislation. Of course, this is also part of what we need to discuss, but we must not forget the big picture. I spoke once with an ambulance driver who had worked in the 1980s and early 1990s. He told with glow about how Sea King-helicoptra helped them in the blizzard and shot. He told me about the accidents where injured people would never have survived, it wouldn't have been because the doctor could charge these helicopters from Orland. Now, in a few years' time, we're taking a big step forward in getting a helicopter with an even bigger range, and that works even better when there's a need. I'm sharing that outrage that the opposition is expressing, but most importantly, the process is proper, and the result is that we get a product that is what our country needs. For us who have a political commitment to the most equivalent services for the inhabitants wherever they live, good preparedness is decisive throughout the country. One must be able to be sure that the help is close, regardless of whether it is at sea or out of all colours. This is one of the factors involved in how well a job can be done or what a job is. There should be little reason to remember that many of the rich resources that form the basis of our welfare society exist outside the largest population concentrations. During the open hearing of the Justice Committee, it was warned to wait too long to adapt and deploy landing sites for the new and larger helicopters in hospitals. I am pleased that the Committee points out that these adjustments must be completed before the deployment of helicopters, and hopes that the government will follow closely at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1235]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2789	When the Lund Commission presented its report in 1996, the light was switched on in many ways in police surveillance records. The report was and has been debated, but an unmistakable result is that, with broad political support here in Stortinget, it led to a settlement with the allegations of the illegal monitoring of their own countrymen by the authorities during the Cold War. The theme of this interpolation can be seen as an extension of this transparency line. It's time to light the light also in the Norwegian part of the Stasi archive. But to do that, we have to make sure that we have the keys to this archive. These keys are in the United States, in the CIA, and are referred to as the Rosenholz archive. The Rosenholz archive was part of the original Stasi archive, but it came under American control during the chaotic dissolution of the GDR. That's why we have to make a clear distinction between the Stasi archive, which is in Germany, and the Rosenholz archive, which is in the United States. In the German Stasi archive there are huge amounts of material – 111 shelf kilometres of documents. This material is partly difficult to obtain because of its complexity and enormous scale. In order to obtain meaningful information from here, you need special skills in the field, and even then it is claimed that you cannot be sure that you have received all the relevant information. The Rosenholz archive greatly improved this situation, because this archive contains registration numbers, code names, real names and more key information that makes searches in the Stasi archive much more targeted and precise. If this topic is relevant today, some people might ask. The answer is yes, to the highest degree. I would like to mention three particular reasons. First of all, this is becoming part of our close history. The first election in 2009 was the first to be born after the fall of the wall in 1989. They thus do not have their own reference points to the cold war and the ideological struggle between democracy and authoritarian socialism. Some Northmen were fascinated by the scenes that were raised by the Eastern bloc. Didn't these Northmen see the repression behind these scenes? Was it believed that the Berlin Wall was raised to protect East Germans? Was it believed that those who were shot in flight to the West were enemies of the right faith? Or was it so that as long as one was convinced that radical socialism represented the objectively good, could any victims be accepted on the way to the goal? What happened was done in the name of the right doctrine! And didn't you see the emergence of organizations like Stasi as alarming? When the GDR collapsed in 1989, it is estimated that Stasi had 91,000 employees and 189 000 unofficial employees. Former officer of Stasi even claims that the latter figure was significantly higher. Stasi is considered one of the most effective intelligence organisations in its field and the East German population as the most monitored population ever. But this was not enough to stifle the people's desire for freedom in 1989. The questions are many. It is therefore important to expose and document the infiltration and methods of dictatorships. The evidence-based historical evidence becomes an important tool in the development of democracy and the fight against radicalism and extremism — as well as a warning of the dangers of totalitarian swarming. The second reason why this remains relevant is the security policy dimension related to the information contained in the Rosenholz archive. It can help to reveal those who were really agents of a foreign country on Norwegian soil. To the extent that the relationship is not out of date, the cases must be investigated and, where appropriate, brought before the judiciary in accordance with Norwegian, rule of law. Thirdly, there will be a way to heal part of the wounds after the cold war. The fact that you're mentioned in the Stasi archive doesn't necessarily mean you were an agent. The Rosenholz archive can help to clean those who have had this suspicion hanging over them, while the Rosenholz archive can also help to reveal those who were really agents of a foreign country. I allow myself to detail on the Rosenholz archive, because it is important that the level of precision in the matter reflects the depth of the theme. The approximately 350 000 files in the Rosenholz archive are maps from Stasis' foreign intelligence. Under uncertain circumstances, this archive ended up with the CIA during the German reunification in 1990. The archive was initially only analysed in the United States, but after lengthy negotiations, the German authorities were given the files that deal with German – and only German – citizens in 2003. The Rosenholz archive contains three types of microfilmed card cards, which can be described as follows: the F 16 cards contained personal data for people who either had contact with Stasi or who were described as interesting by Stasi. In other words, this is not a unique map of agents. On the other hand, the F22 cards are a map of active agents. It makes this chart drawing very interesting. Finally, the Rosenholz archive consists of statistical cards. These include code names, category of agents, date of recruitment, motivation for recruitment, profession, relationships with relatives, etc., and Stasis' assessment of the quality and credibility of the agent. What information does the PST have today regarding the contents of the Rosenholz archive? It does not know very clearly, but on a written question from the representative Kielland Asmyhr, Minister of Justice Storberget replied on 20 October this year in a way that must be interpreted to mean that only a small part of the Rosenholz archive has been delivered from the United States here to Norway. Was Stasi’s activities in Norway so extensive during the Cold War that this is of interest today? My answer is an unconditional yes. Professor Helmut Müller-Enbergs is considered one of the most recognized researchers on the Stasi archive. He has conducted an analysis of Stasis's activities in the Nordic region. One of his findings is the number of information from Norway and that there are a total of 1,886 reports in the Stasi archive. Not less than 85 pst. of these reports are related to policy, military and intelligence. In the Nordic region, Norway is clearly distinguished by this high proportion. There is reason to believe that this was ‘inside’ and to a lesser extent emigrated to East Germans who had to undertake to report back, as a return to education or marriage in Norway. Then I'm back to where the interpellation started. We have to make sure to light up the Norwegian part of the Stasi archive. In this way, we'll continue the line from the Lund Commission, while hopefully it can help prevent extreme attitudes. Therefore, the government needs to take the necessary initiatives so that all information on Stasis’s activities in Norway is transferred here to Norway from the US authorities. The interpellation is also about the availability of the material from the Rosenholz archive for researchers, press and public opinion. The objective must be an availability based on tried and tested rules that ensure legal certainty, research and national security. For research in particular, it is important to establish good rules for access to the material. For my part, I would like to add that the aim in the next round should be to transfer the entire Norwegian material from the Rosenholz archive to the Stasi archive in Germany. In this way, we might also be able to contribute to the German reconciliation process. It is against this background that I ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: Will the Council of State take the initiative to obtain all the information, including F-16, F-22 and the statistical cards, on the total activities of Stasis in Norway provided by the CIA, and what access to this material does the Council of State wish to provide the basis for researchers, the press and the general public?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2831	The Rosenholz files contain copies of maps from Stasis' international service and consist of archive references, code names and real names of foreign Stasi agents. Here I have to say that I am really impressed with the detailed knowledge of the interpellant about this. After I have been informed, the original maps are destroyed by Stasi after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. The Rosenholz files were in American possession, but were returned to Germany in 2003. If it was, as the interpellant said, just what was happening to German agents, or if it was the whole archive, I must honestly admit that I have not been able to provide all the information about so far. After being returned to Germany, the files were checked for possible errors by Der Bundesbericht für die Stasi-Unterlagen, a state-owned German organisation for the preservation of the Stasi archive. In general, the protection provided by the Rosenholz files in connection with the breakdown of the GDR and the subsequent archiving of the material has been provided by other countries’ services or agencies. The police security service, PST, doesn't have the Rosenholz files in its archives. I'll come back to that question a little bit later. In the merger of the two German states in 1990, a central authority in Germany was set up to take care of the archives of the GDR State Security Service and Foreign Affairs. These were the so-called Stasi archives. At the same time, it was announced that the NATO security services could obtain information from these archives. The State Attorney's report dated 29 April 1997 shows that on four occasions the police surveillance service has asked the German authorities for possible records of a total of 33 persons. From the Norwegian side, the question of information from the Stasi archives was first raised in 1992 by the then monitoring director and again in early 1994. These enquiries were generally unrelated to specific persons. The German Stasi archives were built on personal names, and it was therefore necessary to ask specific names for information. From the German side, it was stated that the processing of the Stasi documents was regulated, and that in the case of specific cases under work, information had to be provided before they could decide whether the information from the archives could be provided. On 30 June 1995 the POT then addressed the German authorities about a specific person. The enquiry was repeated on 17 August 1995. A new request was made in November 1995 to extend the request to eight other people, i.e. a total of nine persons previously registered by the surveillance police. It was known in 1996 that information from the Stasi archives had been made available to the German authorities. The EOS Committee presented its communication on data collection from the former GDR on 13 December 1996. On 16 December 1996, the State Attorney ordered the Chief Inspector to cease the investigations. Further investigations against the Stasi archives were cancelled. However, in some cases, there are copies of documents from the Stasis archive, including from the Rosenholz files. These are documents that have come into the possession of the Police Security Service through requests for collaborative services. The background to the cases in the police surveillance service at the time, POT, was the suspicion that Norwegian citizens had been agents for Stasi. Research in this field, as in all other fields, is based on the assumption that researchers need to address where the archive material is located. In this case, it would be to Germany, where, as I know, the material is stored by the Federal Agent für die Stasi-Unterlagen, or the CIA, who also mentioned the interpellant. In the case of researchers, press or public access to archive material held by foreign services, agencies or archives, this must naturally be determined by them within the rules or guidelines applicable to such issues. At the International Research Conference in Visby in September of this year, Stasi in the Nordic region, there was a bulwark to the Nordic governments to take an initiative to ask the CIA to deliver Rosenholz documents to the Stasi Archive in Berlin. In addition to this called Manifesto from Gotland, I am not familiar with specific enquiries from Norwegian researchers about Rosenholz files. I must note in connection with this that none of the signatories of the manifest, as far as I have seen, were from Norway. The GDR and Stasis activities against Norway and Norwegian citizens are part of our post-war history. The material can shed new light on this part of the story of the Cold War. I am therefore in favour of further investigation into the possibilities of obtaining relevant material for Norway. In this context, there are several issues that need to be clarified. On the one hand, it is necessary to clarify the possibilities for this material to be made available to us and, on the other hand, to clarify procedures, if any. The answers to these questions will determine how to put a further race. As the matter stands now, I cannot see that such a procurement will be a task for the police security service. According to the Police Act, Section 17(b) is responsible for the prevention and investigation of specified criminal offences. It is beyond the service’s task to obtain material solely on the basis of research interest and which is not relevant for the performance of the service’s tasks. The management of this type of material also raises a number of issues, including: the safety and personal nature of which needs to be clarified. It is therefore premature to consider something qualified on how and under what conditions researchers and others might be able to access. As can be seen from what I have said, we need to conduct further investigations and assessments before concluding on the issues raised in the interpellation. With regard to access to copies of individual documents contained in the archives of the Police Security Service, the issue of transparency will be assessed by the PST in accordance with the applicable legislation. As regards information for research purposes, I would like to point in particular to Section 13(d) of the Administrative Act, which allows the Ministry to decide that an administrative body can or will provide information for research purposes, regardless of the obligation of professional secrecy where this is reasonable and does not result in disproportionate disadvantages for other interests. In this context, conditions may also be attached. A formal contact with the Police Security Service and a reasoned suspension from the service to the Ministry of Justice is required. I will decide on a specific application when it may be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2875	I must admit that I was a little disappointed in the answer. Governments show good intentions – that is to be said. That's good. But there were few traces of active action or desire to raise this matter further, as was my intention. I'll do it a little bit punctually. The first state council started with the Rosenholz archives in the Stasi archive in Germany. If not all of the researchers I've read have made a statement on the matter, they're wrong, the situation is that the Rosenholz archive is at the CIA. The Stasi archive is located in Germany. In order to obtain the Rosenholz archive, individual countries need to contact the CIA to obtain information about their citizens. Germany has received for the German citizens, but no one else. Norway must take active action to have this material delivered. And as I understand it, this is also related to NATO members, who have the special opportunity. To be honest, I didn't think it was going to be so complicated and so far not so hard to make sure that the PST got this into its archives – as a first step – by turning to the CIA, so that this material about agent activities and Stasi activities in Norway during the cold war came under Norwegian thanks. That must be the first step. But I don't think I heard so many clues that it was going to be taken. It's possible I'm wrong. Of course, the council has to correct me if I am wrong. The Gotland manifesto is an important manifesto that I think is going to be noticed, and it's going to be worked a lot along that line in the continuation. Many researchers in this field have expressed a clear opinion. I won't wonder why there were so few Norwegian researchers – I leave that to others to speculate on. But it's a fact, as the Council of State was about. In conclusion, I hope that the Council of State will take the necessary steps, just to get this material in place in Norway for the reasons I put into my interpellation. There are important reasons, there is important information, and it can also contribute to the prevention of extremism in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2890	I agree that this is historically important material and that it can help bring new light to the cold war history, even in the case of Norway. I hope that the remark that the interpellant found “get track” of the intention to raise this matter can be explained by the fact that this council member has been sitting in the chair for a month. This is actually also a matter that I, along with former Minister of Justice Kari Gesteby, had a lot to do back in the time when Norway, as one of several NATO members, was busy accessing this information. So many people know how to solve that problem, and why it got its stop in 1996. There is also some background for me to draw attention to what is the mandate for the PST, and therefore there is less scope for the PST to solve tasks that are not directly related to the prevention and investigation of specific issues. We want to spend some time finding the right form to take this further, and that is, as far as I can see, good contact with both the CIA and any other collaborators, which it will be important for us to go into more detail. The aim must be to ensure access to a historically important material and to ensure that it is illuminated in a way that ensures its historical value, but also takes care of the security and personal aspects that some of these matters still contain. For so much did I have to do with this matter that I know that this will still be a relationship that can be very demanding for many to get enlightened in a thorough and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2899	Both the interpellant and the Council of State have well explained the background to this matter. I would also like to say that I am impressed with Mr. Werp's knowledge in this field. But I think it's strange that this is taken up as an interpellation, and not as a question in the ordinary Questionnaire – but enough about it. The Rosenholz files are a collection of 38The representative said 38, the correct number should be 381, cf. Anders B. Throw page 1217. CD-ROMs with about 350,000 files with information about one of the intelligence agencies in the intelligence service Stasi. The cards were filmed in 1988. They basically contain the real names of agents working for these bodies. The originals were destroyed by Stasi shortly after 1989. The card cards contain archive references, code names and real names of foreign Stasi agents. The Rosenholz files ended up with the CIA during 1990. That same year, a central government in Germany was set up to take care of the archives, the so-called Stasi archives. The files dealing with Germans were returned to Germany in 2003. The Norwegian side asked for information from the Stasi archives for the first time. The Stasi archives were built around – mostly – real names, and in order to obtain information, it was necessary to ask for specific names. The answer from the German authorities was then that the documents were regulated. After what I have found out, or researched – if you like – these files have been open to the public since March 2004 and can be watched after submitting an application. In the past, it has been uncertain whether the PST has been passed on to all Rosenholz files dealing with the Nordics, or just a sample. But I now understand, during this interpellation, that the PST does not have the files in its archive, but that in some cases in the Police Security Service archives there are copies of documents that originate from the Stasi archive, this after POT has suspected that Norwegian citizens had been agents for Stasi. Now it is the case that some foreign researchers have asked Norway and the other Nordic countries to hand over the archive cards to the Stasi archive in Berlin, so that it is possible to write this part of our history. For posterity, it might be interesting to have researched these so-called Rosenholz files. I believe that the time has come for researchers to have access to these. We want transparency and knowledge of what has happened, of course with regard to privacy, the legal certainty of the people concerned and the security of the state. In Sweden, researchers have been plunged into the material, assuming not to reveal the names of the Stasi informants mentioned, because it could be a great burden, especially for the relatives of any deceased, to get to know this. I believe that the Council of State is positive about bringing the material to Norway, and that this should be assessed in more detail. I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2919	Also, I want to commend the interpellant for having been thoroughly involved in this issue. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to praise parts of the press, who have helped to excite this interesting matter. The fact that not least Norwegian citizens may have been guilty of providing information, sensitive Norwegian information or other Norwegian information, to the security services of other countries is a dark part of our history, and it is important that as much information as possible about what happened at that time is provided. That's why I think this interpolation is important. It is pointed out how important it is for historical reasons, but also that it is important that we learn how Norwegian citizens relate to the security services of other countries. As the interpellant mentioned in his post, on 12 October this year I asked a written question to the Minister of Justice Knut Storberget about the same thing. My question was whether this information was available in Norwegian archives, and whether Norwegian authorities would contribute to their delivery to Berlin, so that researchers could make use of this material. Not least, I asked what the responsible authorities have done in relation to Norwegian citizens who are mentioned in the files. Interestingly, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget chose not to answer the last question. That was interesting. I understand the state council Faremo there after this debate so far – and I ask her to confirm it once again in her last post – that the Norwegian authorities will now do everything they can to obtain this information and help researchers to access it. If that understanding's right, I'm happy. I would also like to say that it is important that now, as long as the GDR is dissolved, information on the role of Norwegian citizens in relation to the GDR's secret services, Stasi, and how our security services have dealt with these activities by Norwegian citizens. I would ask that we be informed when the Norwegian authorities have received this information so that we can follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2932	At home, my spouse and I have full of porcelain, cutlery, napkins, coffeepots, cream cups – even dope paper – from Palatz there. We have the "Auferstanden aus Ruinen" on CDs and on YouTube, and we have signed photos of Honecker. We have the East German flag, we have «Good bye, Lenin!» and we have «Am körterren Ende der Sonnenallee», «On the short end of Sonnen Allé», on film. At a party, a lot of people think this is very fun, and it's typical of a so-called ‘homophile’ home like ours. But those who come know at the same time what lies there of human suffering behind all those things. You can visit Hohenschönhausen and see what you find there. The smell of terror and anxiety sitting in the walls is still sitting there. When you go to the Stasi headquarters, which has been transformed into a museum – you can go into the office of Erich Mielke and see how everything was steered from there – you get a concept of what this was. You can only imagine what the GDR, with today's technology, could have done with the enormous amount of people they had of people who were unofficial employees, and who volunteered because they didn't have anything better to do. And people like to look, "be flowerpots" at the neighbor -- there are some who do -- and if they also get the reward for it, there are a lot of people who can be recruited. It's quite a contrast to the ostalgia you see in parts of Germany, parts of Berlin. You can also see it in parts of the Western world. We forget the cold war, we forget what happened. We see it in this case; we even see it in the Treholt case, where some things seem to be forgotten. We have to have as much openness as possible and learn from history, so that we can look forward to it. Because it's the case that those who are less than 30 have no relation to the fall of the wall at all. There's an entire generation that doesn't have a relationship with it, other than pictures of people in weird clothes in pastel colors – if they had so much clothes in that color on the wrong side of the Berlin wall – that fled over when the wall fell. The more important it is with openness and transparency. I note that in some previous debates today, the Council of State has not taken part in the debates. I hoped that this would mean that you had saved the commitment to this matter. There I was a little wrong. I share the opinion of the representative, Werp, that it was not particularly clear how active you intend to be. I would encourage the Council of State to use the last three minutes to be a little bit less suspicious and more clear about what you're going to do, and to say what time perspectives you're looking at, to get as much transparency as possible and as much transparency as possible about what you're going to find. I ask myself the question: Who is it that it might be a burden for? Who is it a burden for, what could possibly be to find information? That's a pretty basic question that we should ask ourselves. I think the Council of State should specify what she put in: who is it going to be a burden to get more insight for researchers with more? I will end by repeating some of the questions that both Mr. Werp and the representative of Mr. Kielland Asmyhr asked: Do Norwegian authorities intend to do everything you can, and quickly? You can answer yes or no. In the case of researchers with more – then I stress with more – do you see that more people will be able to gain insight? This is not just a research project insofar as there are people in Norway today who have had a close look at Stasi. I would like to know that, just as I would like to know if anyone has cooperated in an unfortunate way with other types of ideologies. So I ask that the closing posts of the Council of State are significantly less wrapped up, and that she answers clearly and clearly how active Norwegian authorities intend to be in relation to doing something about what the interpellant, with all the honors, has brought up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2949	I heard the representative Kielland Asmyhr had heard that the Council of State would do everything the Council of State could do to make this known. I didn't hear that. I heard the Council of State would consider if there was an application. The Council of State has also underlined that this is not a task for the PST. Then I dare remind you that it should perhaps be a task for the government. It's the government that sits here, it's the council that sits here, and this is one thing under the heading: if we're going to understand the future, we also have to understand the story. It's 66 years since World War II. This is an area which has not been illuminated in Norwegian history, but in which the Norwegian government may, by contacting the United States, take part in the information that may be of Stasi activity in Norway. Under the heading of ‘transparency’ in preventing extremism, this should be too obvious a case for this interpellation to be necessary. The Council of State refers to 1996 and history at the time. It's been many years since – 15, if I'm not completely wrong. So this material has been available, and a lot of countries have taken advantage of the opportunity to get it sent by contacting them. In Germany, each citizen is entitled to have access to the documents that the East German Ministry of State Security must have established and filed on him. More than half a million people have made use of this opportunity since 1992. So in Norway, we're not going to have this opportunity. We're not going to have that openness. In 2011, I have to say that there is a lack of transparency that I would like us to have been in addition. Stasis’s activities were extensive — 91,000 employees and 189 000 unofficial employees — and research reports claimed that there were more than 2 million informers. The East German population is and was the most monitored. I was in Berlin a short time ago and visited Hohenschönhausen, a former prison, which is today a museum. There are many quarters, and it's huge, but it didn't exist on a map. It had torture methods and monitoring methods, which were the worst, against those who thought differently. People just disappeared. This was in Berlin. The fact that the establishment has also had its foothold in Norway is underlined in reports that have also been produced. Today, this material is available in Germany and the United States, but this transparency must be demonstrated by the Norwegian authorities that they actually want it. That PST is assumed to have a small proportion of this material, it gets to be, but it's the government that sits here. Norway is also distinguished by the high proportion of information and reports on both policy, military and intelligence. There is reason to believe that this was insider — and to a lesser extent emigrated to East Germans who had to undertake to report back, as a return to education or love and marriage in Norway. From my point of view, I expect the government to take an initiative with the U.S. authorities to get out of the Rosenholz archive all of the three card cards that are mentioned and that are just about Stasis's activity in Norway. There are several reasons for this. One is that those who may be affected must have the opportunity to know: Am I mentioned there, or am I not? In addition, there is important intelligence information. It provides knowledge of our past history, and how our country was also part of what we like to think of as non-existent in Norway. In addition, there is an important historical evidence. It is important both for researchers and for the press, but also for the public that we have access to this. When so many as half a million people in Germany have asked, it will of course not be very close to that in Norway. But for those that apply, it's important. When we're open about this, our country can with dignity say that we've dared to go into all the conditions that we don't like to think about today. The government has a responsibility, and I like the bad wording: this is not within the mandate of the PST. It's the government's responsibility to show the openness we're looking for and that's going to shape our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e2973	The interpellant addresses a very important question, which we've probably considered important over some time. But at least now we think that there's a need for us to start getting a little bit more to the bottom of it. These include the possibilities for transparency in Stasi, the methods they used, their operation in Norway, and not least the Nordics involved. Of course, we know a lot about the methods. We know that they were thorough, in accordance with German traditions. We know that they had a huge device for the problem. We also know that descriptions in plans and reports were very detailed. We, who were in the officers' corps in the 1970s and 1980s, knew that we were specially monitored, and that we were on a list that would be used in a conflict that had led to the east side winning over the west side of Europe. On a later occasion, I was given the opportunity to get an idea of what it meant. As a teacher at the Air War School, I brought a group of cadets to East Germany in the mid 1980s. The treatment we received at Checkpoint Charlie was of such a nature that it was not free for some to feel not only discomfort, but also fear of what we could risk. It wasn't comfortable. In the 1990s, I served in Germany in another NATO department, and through German colleagues, I got insight into much of what happened at the time of the acquisition in the GDR, after the collapse in 1989. We then received a confirmation that the fear that many had was real. A member of the apparatus of power at the time was first of all very surprised by the humane treatment they received, not least the humane treatment that private soldiers in the defense had received. It was not common in their everyday lives. He said – directly: You should be glad that we lost this fight, not you. He confirmed that from a certain level of the officer corps throughout Europe/NATO all would be liquidated. It was a very clear foundation in their purpose. So here's a lot of drugs that can have a lot of interest in Norway as a nation. Some years later, I was given a special briefing at the CIA headquarters in Washington. I got some insight into what methods they used, and which archives they also handled. I must say, it was very interesting. That's why I want to say that getting insight into what they're sitting on today, with parts of this Stasi archive, would be of great interest. André Oktay Dahl mentioned which souvenirs he had at his home. I have a hotel key from Vilnius – where I was just after the fall of the Wall – that I have taken care of. It was a very difficult hotel, and in all the keys it was a microphone. That key is at my house today – so nothing particularly was observed at the time. But it shows that you had a device, it was probably not just Stasi, but we know that Stasi had great influence in the Baltic countries as well. Governments state that this is interesting for both historical and security reasons, as well as for personnel reasons. I agree. I understand the Council of State so that she is positive about taking the initiative to provide this material. I think that's very nice. She said that the personnel part might be vulnerable. Yes, it may be, but it's not unreasonable to believe, with the high activity that Stasi had in Norway at the time, that it was Norwegians involved. At least for the sake of history, I think we deserve to know how this was going on back then. Once again, I hope that the Council of State has an open mind and takes this up on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3002	I would like to start by thanking you for the fact that the interpellant has put an important issue and a case complex on the agenda. What I think permeates the interpellant approach, is that truth must be sought even when it can be unpleasant, because we have a duty to seek knowledge and truth about our own society. The situation is, as has also been explained, that the information is available. It does not require large administrative resources to systematise – if we want it as a nation – the information that others, outsiders, have already collected about us. There should be some modesty in the fact that Norway is not interested in the information that has been abroad for many years, especially in East Germany. We also owe those who lived in this period, who personally had victims, to acquire correct and correct historical knowledge of what happened in the long period that we today call the Cold War. The two contributions from the Council of State were slightly different. The first did not give much hope for an active attitude. The second post was somewhat more welcome. Then we are in the lucky situation that the Council of State has a third post to inform us about what superiority she will continue to work on this topic. It would be good if we had received a clearer direction guide from the Council of State on where she stands. I want to highlight the fact that in the same situation other countries have had a more active use and review of this knowledge. I would particularly like to point out that Denmark has established a research centre for cold war studies linked to the University of Southern Denmark. One has not been so very concerned with names, but has been more concerned with the mechanisms and processes that made the country's citizens subject to influences and temptations that, if any, caused other powers of information about their own society. Then I emphasize that we still do not live in a completely innocent life. Today, too, we have challenges in intelligence. There are also threats, even in Europe. So system weaknesses that also occur if you see your own counter-intelligence from the outside are very important information to build a future-oriented security service in Norway. It's just by seeing how other countries' espionage activities succeeded in getting through our counter-spionage, that we're getting to know what structural weaknesses you had at the time, and assure us that these weaknesses are still absent. And then there's a lot of interesting sociological studies you can do out of what social conditions must be present to get that kind of companionship in combination with a monitoring pressure. The important thing is that, as a nation in the future, we will be better able to understand which processes could put the nation at risk. Therefore, we also believe that we have no moral right to refuse this knowledge to be presented on the table for the Norwegian people. I am calling for a somewhat stronger statement from the Council of State on the force she will pursue this theme in her office. I would also like to hear if the Council of State will assess similar initiatives in research of the kind and with the organisation that has been carried out in Denmark. We need a more precise threat picture of what threatened us before, in order to prevent recurrences for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3025	I thank you for the posts that have been in this interpellation debate. It shows a great deal of commitment and a lot of knowledge and feelings about this question. It's not surprising. I will take up some of the main points I think are important in the further development of the matter, because I assume that the matter is developing in a positive way. The councils were in charge of the PST. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Schou, who points out that here in this Chamber we are talking about the responsibility of the government, the initiative of the government and the follow-up of the government. We have also heard several articles that have raised the concept of transparency. I think there's a reason to point to the transparency line that the Lund Commission laid down. It should be continued in this case, although in many ways we may be able to reflect the situation. At that time, it was about revealing the possibility of illegal monitoring by the authorities of their own citizens. This time we're in a different situation, where openness is to be used to reveal real agents. I can't see that the concept of transparency would have any less meaning for that reason, nor after all of us in this room – in different arenas and in different ways – have underlined, that after summer's events it might be more important than ever with openness, that we meet extremism with knowledge, and that it is based on history that we are going to build the future. Then the Rosenholz archive is put into a proper context, in an overall perspective. Then I also choose to focus more on the last article of the Council of State, article No. 2, than the first post, because I meant there to see indications and to trace more willingness to follow the case and get this information from the Rosenholz archive under a Norwegian roof than we might hear in the first post. This is also about a completely different dimension, that of healing wounds. This information will also be able to provide evidence for those who feel suspicious because they are mentioned in the Stasi archive context. Now, with the Rosenholz archive, you can get to know whether they were agents or not. It's a part of relieving conflicts and healing wounds. So to the availability of the information right in the end. I am pleased to hear the representative Ljunggren, who attaches great importance to the access of researchers to the information – I can also inform the representative that there are 381 CDs in the Rosenholz archive, not 38. Transparency is a key to just getting out the positive effects knowledge gives us. That is why it must also be part of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3042	Before receiving the floor for its final statement, the President will point out that the called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Jacob Nødseth, have taken their seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3048	I have to admit that this is not the first time that I as a southerner have been accused of being a little cautious in the use of language. I would therefore like to point out quickly that I think this is important historical material. It is material that can provide important insight into an important epoch. Transparency is important for more and for many reasons. When the representative, Oktay Dahl, asked what I meant by referring to privacy as well, I would like to say that transparency is important for that person, who wants to know more about information about himself or herself in the archives. It is also important for the public. But it's still difficult, I think, for individuals and families with the uncertainty that the family may be confronted with a story they might have wanted forgotten. I said I don't see the PST used for this important work. Their mandate is to prevent and combat crime, and I also dared to highlight the fact that the use of POT in 1996 actually ended with full stoppage. For me it is therefore such that the representative Schou opens the doors. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Ministry to take an initiative in clarifying the possibilities for access, how access is available and when. The manner in which this initiative is to be taken has not yet been clearly defined. Researchers will already be able to apply for access to relevant material, if desired, in the PST, for as I said, there are parts of this material that may be there due to individual investigation. After a full stop in 1996, there have been many governments who have not seen the time as the right to reopen this case. I have promised now that we will. If it's also possible to get inspiration from our neighboring country, we'll take a closer look, and I can promise that I'll do this with great force.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3059	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3065	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3073	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 15 and 16, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 17 and 18, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 19, 20 and 21, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 22, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 23–26, from Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals Nos. 21–26 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the available capacity of private drug institutions is used.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3113	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own case to ensure that private taxpayers deduct costs for the care of owner-occupied dwellings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3128	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to put in place a system of psychiatric ambulances covering the whole country’. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3145	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the spring 2012 session, the government is asked to present a case highlighting the state of Norwegian health buildings and medical engineering equipment, as well as a proposal to finance the maintenance work.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3160	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a dental reform in the context of the 2013 State Budget, based on the establishment of a ceiling on expenditure related to oral disease.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3177	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that healthcare businesses go through their activities with a view to improving the efficiency and competitive deployment of services outside their core business in order to release funds for patient treatment. This may include, for example, cleaning, laundry, watchkeeping, etc.’.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3194	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the input-driven funding in hospitals to 50 per cent.’ [[ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3209	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3-14, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to associate with persons with a clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the ISF reimbursement for physiotherapists in the specialist health service in the context of the revised national budget for 2012.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that capacity existing at private and non-profit institutions for training and rehabilitation is used.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make NOKLUS a fixed item in the State budget and to ensure an annual allocation sufficient to finance the participation of all the country’s nursing homes.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the necessary legislation so that private and non-profit actors can also apply for investment grants for the construction of nursing homes in line with municipalities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to require the municipalities to keep statistics on sick leave waiting lists in each municipality.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a separate grant scheme for the construction and operation of hospice in Norway by 1 June 2012.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to put in place the necessary tools as soon as possible to recruit and retain scientific personnel at the odontological universities.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the reasons for the high incidence of drug treatment for ADD/ADHD, and to analyse why there are so many variations in the order of magnitude.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a cause for the Storting in the spring of 2012 which deals with the future strategy for pharmaceutical policy in Norway.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals from the government in the context of the revised 2012 national budget to transfer medicinal products from individual reimbursement to the BIP based on health and social analyses.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that socio-economic and health economic analyses related to the introduction of new medicinal products are carried out in order to speed up the introduction and use of innovative medicinal products in Norway.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce clear national guidelines for the use of new innovative medicinal products.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3290	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start work on a new national health and hospital plan in 2012, anchoring the development of the specialist health service both locally and nationally and treated by the Stortinget. This plan shall include a progress plan for the liquidation of regional health establishments, an overview of the investment and maintenance needs of the sector, a new investment regime and minimum requirements for the functions of different types of hospitals, as well as the development of pre-hospital services, including the air ambulance service.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3305	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on a new national health and hospital plan in 2012, which anchors the development of specialist health services both locally and nationally. The plan shall be addressed by the Stortinget and shall include an overview of the investment and maintenance needs of the sector, a new investment regime and minimum requirements for the functions of different types of hospitals, as well as the development of pre-hospital services, including air ambulance services.’;» The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party will now support that proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e3323	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–26, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the recommended lead time for patients with cancer or suspected cancer is given the lead for the establishment by the specialist healthcare service of the individual medical deadline under the Patient Rights Act, in order to give the patient a legal right. Deviations from the lead-times shall be medically justified and recorded.’;» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to put forward a strategy to prevent the half of patients who have cancer, with diffuse symptoms, from getting an extended waiting period as a result of the new lead times for patients with clear suspicion of cancer.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the requirement that breast reconstruction be part of breast cancer treatment followed by a 6 month period, unless there is a medical justification for waiting longer. The deadline is included as part of the individual medical deadline under the Patient Rights Act.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a new national cancer plan during 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e6592	The President has understood that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to oppose the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e6625	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for a 1st instalment. In the context of the submission of the State budget, the new medicinal products recommended by the State Medicines Agency are covered by the reimbursement arrangements. 2nd@item: inlistbox Propose proposals for a substantial increase in the de minimis ceiling in the context of the revised national budget for 2012. 3rd@item: inlistbox To propose a new decision-making system to speed up the introduction of new treatment services in healthcare and a more equivalent offer to patients across the country. 4th@item: inlistbox Propose an action plan to reduce the extent of mis-medication, with concrete measures in line with the Health DG recommendations. The role of apothecary in the work must be discussed in particular. 5th@item: inlistbox Assessment of the full range requirement at wholesale level of pharmacies should be abolished and the assessment submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. 6th@item: inlistbox propose measures to further develop the system of sales of medicinal products outside the pharmacy and submit the case to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. 7th@item: inlistbox Create a new category for medicinal products currently prescribed for information purposes, so that they can be sold outside the scope of the pharmacy with an equivalent disclosure information obligation. Alternatively, between this proposal and the setting up of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e6660	The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e6677	During the debate, the representative Per Arne Olsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate the planning of the establishment of diagnostic centres in Norway, including the investigation of funding for diagnostic tariffs.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to impose a time limit for the follow-up of patients by reference to diagnostic centres.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e6697	The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7773	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7783	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7791	During the debate, the representative, André Oktay Dahl, put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7948	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7958	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e7966	Three proposals have been put forward for this matter. That is the proposal No. 1– 3, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a system in which three of the rescue services bases are put out to compete under the same quality requirements as the Defense operates under today’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the overall helicopter capacity in Norway and, where appropriate, to ensure that some of the new helicopters in the rescue services can be used in support of police personnel transportation.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks to come back on its own with an assessment of the design of the future base structure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e8024	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-06.ana.ud25e8036	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
