ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e55	The representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Håkon Haugli and Erling Sande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from Mr Øyvind Vaksdal on leave from 30 May to 1 June to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris and at the Corfu of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Else-May Botten from 30 May to 1 June to attend the EUREKA conference in Copenhagen from the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten on study leave on 30 and 31 May Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Tuesday 31 May under the leave of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland For Troms County: Bjørn Inge Mo and Hilde Anita Nyvoll
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e119	Eva Vinje Aurdal, Terje Halleland and Bjørn Inge Mo are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e127	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e141	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e150	Today, the Storting adopts an extension of the father's quota and a right for the father to withdraw the quota where the mother is ill-satisfied. In Soria Moria II, the government has determined that the quota should be extended to 14 weeks and that non-exempt fathers should receive it. Today we're taking a grip that makes us take a long step towards those goals. The family quota has a lot of good sides. Firstly, the federal quota is helping to revolutionize society's view of who can exercise care. Before we introduced the parental quota in 1993, only a few hundred men took parental leave. Now almost 40,000 men are taking out parental leave. More and more people are also taking out more than the feather quota. There is a sign that parents view parental leave more closely as something that can be shared between mother and father, and there is a sign that the view of father as a caregiver is changing. In addition, we know that many fathers would not have the opportunity to withdraw leave if it was not a statutory right. The employer simply does not give them the opportunity. Secondly, the fact that mother has traditionally been at home is one of the most important factors for women to systematically earn worse than men. It has been decided by the Equal Pay Commission. We have research that shows that the more leave dad takes out, the better wage development has mother. Thus, the birth rate is an important instrument for equal pay in Norway. Thirdly, the fact that father is more at home, helps to ensure better contact for children with his father, and we enjoy that in SV all kids. So the father quota is a cheek egg: it's good for the child, it's good for the father, and it's good for the mother. This debate is a classic in the family and cultural committee. The right hand side, right here at the Right and the Advance Party, is probably going to pull its freedom of choice rhetoric. Then they jump over the fact that our parental leave is what guarantees freedom of choice. In Norway, we have ensured the possibility of having both a job and a family, and it is shown at the birth rate. When we travel around the world, we get a lot of requests to talk about how we can have a high birth rate in Norway while women participate in the labour market. Parental leave and parental quota are an important instrument in this regard, and that's what we talk about and boast about when we're abroad – one of the world's most shy parental leave schemes. It's the traditional perception that only women can and will provide care, and that it's only the man's job to support us, that makes us unfree – it's not the father's quota that makes us unfree. I would like to challenge the Right: if it turns out that the removal of the feather quota leads to less opportunities for father to be at home, as we see developments have been in Denmark, will Right then change policy? Or is freedom of choice more important than the real freedom of choice for Norwegian parents? I want to add that this is a big day for us who believe that it is important to have a gender equality policy, that it is important to have a family policy, and that taking action makes society better. I know that the chairman of the committee and the Council of State have celebrated with cake today – they could well share with the case rapporteur! I would like to congratulate everyone on the day that has fought for a fairer and more equal family life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e169	First, I just want to admit that it is right that the Council of State and I have celebrated with cake earlier today. On that cake it said: Larger portion of cake for father. That's what parental leave is all about. What we celebrated this morning was that in two years, the red-green government has expanded the feather quota from six to twelve weeks. In practice, we have doubled the number of weeks in two years. This we believe is a new promise for fathers' rights. We know how much father takes out of the parental leave, almost identical to the father's quota. We can look at the history, because before 1993, when the father quota was introduced, only 900 fathers took leave. Today, more than 40,000 fathers are taking parental leave. It tells us that if we're to succeed in distributing parental leave more fairly, we're dependent on, and it's necessary to have, a father's allowance. We see that in countries without a family allowance, fathers take no leave. In countries with a father's quota, father takes leave. Denmark is unfortunately a very good example. There, the spring quota was removed, and the number of fathers taking out the paper issue is significantly smaller. Today it's only 25 pst. by Danish fathers taking parental leave. So the number's speech is very clear. Nevertheless, the Right Party and the Advance Party in this Chamber today will vote against enlargement and oppose the fact that we should at all have a federal quota – while last year the EU decided to introduce a feather quota. It shall be exciting if, at any time, the Right Party and the Advance Party come to power, if they intend to use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement to prevent fathers from obtaining a spring quota. It's also interesting to look at the Right Country Meeting, where you now kind of admit how hopeless the decision you made last year was. So now they want to introduce tax incentives to give you equal distribution of parental leave. This is true in Sweden, but there is a significant difference between the right model in Norway and what you do in Sweden. Because in Sweden the federal quota is at the bottom, while Swedish conservative politicians believe that it is not enough. Therefore, tax relief is needed in addition, to ensure that fathers take out more of the parental leave than the parental allowance. That's what I think we should think about in the Right, that there are actually quite radical opinions in the neighbouring country. Then let's do it with freedom of choice. As the rapporteur also mentions, we are a privileged country. Norwegian women and men are privileged because we let go, like Italian mothers and fathers, of choosing either child or work. We can choose both, and one of the reasons is that we have the world's most shy parental leave scheme. It is a unique freedom of choice that many look to Norway and envy us. If we look at the United States, you have 12 weeks of parental leave, Canada has 17, Germany has 14. Today we get 57 weeks with the decision we make in Stortinget. In addition to the fact that most of the leave will still be available for free use through the distribution, we have a small share that we earmark father to ensure that fathers also get to participate in the wonderful freedom we have in Norway. The right-hand side argues that own vested rights are the most important to achieve a fairer distribution of parental leave. I agree that it is important to have your own vested rights, and here the government has done a lot in recent years to ensure that more fathers get the right to take out parental leave. I really feel that the Right Double Communicating here, because here one argues again for one's own earned rights, while last autumn it was suggested that women should be employed if the father should take that leave. That's something that's already in place, but if we're going to be able to have a more equal parenting relationship, we need to have a distribution and make sure that fathers have the opportunity to have a fathering quota that makes them even more equal in the future. That is what we are adopting in the Storting today. We've seen that the extraction of fathers is identical to the spring quota, and now the extraction is going to be even larger.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e188	It's like the case rapporteur said, the father's quota is the classic in terms of matters in the family committee. I don't have numbers on how many times it's been debated, and it was almost a little tempting to go back to the archive to find an old speech, but I found out that you can't do that. This theme shows major differences between the right and the red-green in terms of policy. It's a theme where the red-greens really hit their chests and say this is a part of the equality debate. Extension of the parental quota is a part of equality, and they love to use it as an argument. All the while we hear – and up to several times today again – an inconspicuous debate that it is the right side that will frustrate the feather quota. Then the red-green ones select to close the ears of the arguments. I can assure all parents and those who are going to be parents, that the parental leave will not be shaved if the Progress Party comes to power. It was with great joy that I heard last Monday the government party's argument against max time in kindergarten: freedom of choice and flexibility for the parents – Kristin Halvorsen had faith in the parents' assessment. Yes, think of it as being the case in this case as well. First, let's make it clear: Norway has one of the world's best parental leave schemes, and we're lucky to have this opportunity. But what's happening today is that dad actually gets legalized for several weeks than Mother has. Today's system believes the Progress Party offers good opportunities to combine work and leave. It is important that all families can spend the most time together in the first few years of their life. It is important for the social and human development of children in the first years of life. What is important is to facilitate parents themselves to be able to choose when to withdraw their parental leave, within the overall framework of the current system. Different parents have different needs, and we politicians have to take that on board. We don't have to put sticky hands over all of the things that families are going to do. It is for families to decide for themselves. The government's policy is going to affect many small children's families, self-employed, farmers and not least people working in small businesses. Not everyone works in the public sector and has the opportunity to take out the twelve weeks that the government is now spending on. So I want to refer to the British report that slaughters the Nordic model from a gender perspective. It's a little strange -- we've had that debate before on that report, and we're reading it depending on what kind of view we have on it. However, it shows that from an gender perspective, those countries that do not have a father's quota have more women in high positions and more women out of work. It is important to have a policy based on the fact that each family should have great freedom and find the solutions that are best suited to them. As I said, different parents have different needs, and that must be taken into account. For the Progress Party, it has been important not to go in and control the weeks that parents have at their disposal. Each family must have such a great freedom that they can find the solutions that are best for them. Here you must have children's best for the eye and not punish the child whose father does not have the opportunity to take out all the weeks. As the situation remains today, mother loses the weeks and has to go to work and perhaps have her child in kindergarten or at the day mother's. That is to say, if you fail, the child will have the best time to be home with one of the parents as long as you can. The progress party has faith in Dad, in a father who wants to be more at home, and we have faith in the family and that they can figure this out for themselves. The goal must always be to give the child time with their parents, which we ensure by giving the family full freedom to share parental leave among themselves as they find it best for their family. Then I would still say that I am pleased that the government is now changing the arrangement where mother is dissatisfied. This was a proposal from the Progress Party that we did not get through a year ago, but now, fortunately, it has come into place. Finally, I would say that this is always going to be an economic question. Father has an independent right of use, but he has limited right of withdrawal. If the government really wants to do something to achieve equality, they should first of all give them an equivalent right of exit. Only then will we be able to achieve full equality in terms of parental leave. With that, I would like to address the minority proposals of the Progress Party in the matter, as well as the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e216	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e219	Right is happy that we have as much a parent as we have in Norway. I must stress that for us, parental leave is primarily about the concern of the children, for this is a system that will enable us parents to take care of our very least. I'm sure the councillor and the committee leader had a nice time this morning when they ate cake. I don't think it's like that all the grandchildren and those waiting for their baby are just as happy today. The recent studies show that parents want more freedom of choice, not more detailed management of their lives. It's very interesting to hear the Workers' Party talk about freedom of choice, because they're talking about freedom of choice in a social democratic way. I think that's kind of nice. Even the Prime Minister has been talking a lot about freedom of choice lately. Last week we were able to hear the red-green parties here in the main hall, when we discussed maxim time in the kindergartens, talk about how horrific top imagery is, how important freedom of choice is, and how important flexibility is for young children's parents. Then they went hard against the proposal of the Christian People's Party on maximum time in kindergartens and thought that it would restrict parents' freedom of choice. Today, on the other hand, we hear something quite different. They're not part of the electoral rhetoric of the right. I think it's a little interesting sometimes to read the blog of the representative Stokkan-Grande, because he's concerned about freedom of choice. He stresses that he is particularly concerned with fathers' freedom of choice, and especially with the mother of the child: It is not so easy for all fathers today to have the opportunity to be at home with their child, because it is often difficult to agree on this when discussing it with mother. That's why the representative Stokkan-Grande writes on his blog: «Mothers who feel that they are standing in the way when their father wants a greater part of the leave period will also be given increased freedom of choice when the quota is increased.» I think it is a special argument that the reason why we have to increase this quota is that Dad does not have time at home with his child if he cannot use this legal quota against his wife or partner or against his employer. When I hear the red-greens hail the Norwegian man because he wants to be with his child, I don't have much sense for it. I think that's the least we should ask of the Norwegian man. I take it for granted that the Norwegian man wants to be at home with his child and wants to spend time with his family, and that he does not need any quota to get it to. The Labour Party speaks of the importance of freedom of choice, in particular within the quota determined by the State, and the importance of freedom of choice as long as it is within a framework that the State considers conducive to equality. Then the red-greens can be part of it. It's like hearing Pippi Longstocking when she says she wanted to start school because she wants a summer vacation. That's what I think I hear when the Workers' Party is talking about that they want freedom of choice. I think it is important to stress that parental leave should be in the interests of the child. I also want to remind you that there are actually some families who don't have the opportunity to take out this quota. It is not that they will not be with their child, but that it is difficult to adapt to it in everyday life. Freedom of choice is that the family itself should decide how to organize their lives, what is best for the young child, and for the family as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e241	We've spent a lot of time discussing in this room. That's enough because it affects a lot of people, at the same time it shows a distinction between the political parties. Everyone agrees that it is important for children to have good contact with both father and mother, and that this is important in order to connect with the child in the first year. For me, the birth rate is a means of reaching this very point. When Father takes more responsibility for the children, we also avoid the disproportionate distribution of responsibilities that we see today, where mother takes on a lot of responsibility for care at home, which in turn affects other things such as: wages and salaries, working conditions or rights later in life. So I think many of us here agree that freedom of choice is important. I would say that the families have a lot of freedom of choice today. You can actually divide the majority of the leave. You can sit around the kitchen table and discuss who will take a few weeks, and we have a flexible arrangement with, among other things. the time account that the parents may withdraw until the child is three years of age. The spring quota can also be used to cover several stages. It makes me feel very sure that the family has the great opportunity that the right-hand side is talking about, to take out the leave as you want, and to spend your life as it suits your family. This applies to farmers and other people who do not work in the public sector. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about taking for granted that Dad wants to be home with his kids, and I really do. But everything shows the opposite, because when we see that dad takes longer and longer leave when the father's quota increases, it says something about the father's quota after all is an important tool, because they wouldn't have been home with the kids if the father's quota hadn't been there. So what I miss is kind of proof that it's supposed to be logic that several fathers are longer at home with the children when the father's quota is removed. How's that going to work out? There is also a signal that we are quite far from the goal when we see that lack of discussion in the family is just one of the reasons why dad takes out so little leave, because many fathers take it too given that it should be that mother takes the main part. Then it is important that we give a signal that the parental leave is not reserved for mother or only for father, but that it should also be for the best for the child and for the best for the family as a whole. The family should not be an arena for gender equality. The family is essentially a unit that is to lay down its own life and that is to give a safe and good assignment to the children. But then we see in some things, as we see with the father quota, that it's the best thing for the child to have time with both mother and father. That's exactly what's brilliant about the father's quota, keeping the freedom of choice for the family, ensuring that the children get in touch with both father and mother, and that doesn't threaten this family's ability to be just a family either. But despite the fact that the Norwegian model of parental leave is one of the best in the world, and that we hear about a lot of countries coming to Norway to see how we have done it, we must not forget those who are not covered by the legislation. For them, this debate may not be as relevant. I think of those who are not entitled to a father's allowance, who do not have the acquired rights required, and who cannot take out any special parental leave, or those who have only one-off benefits. For the Central Party, it is important that we manage to have arrangements in this country that take care of all families, including those that do not fit into the arrangements we have today, while at the same time being able to ensure freedom of choice. Today we have said that we want to extend the spring quota from ten to twelve weeks, while expanding the total social benefit period by one week. This I think will be an important day for a lot of families, precisely because we are going one step in the right direction, where father can take even more responsibility at home, while making it clear that families have the freedom of choice that they should have, precisely because the family should be a family and not an arena for, among other things. equal opportunities only or work focus only. The family is doing a lot more, and I think we can handle this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e258	The Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal to extend the total maternity leave by one week. We will therefore vote in favour of the government's proposal to amend the first and second paragraphs of Section 14-9. The Christian People's Party does not want the period of optional distribution between parents to be a week shorter than today, and we do not support the government's proposal to amend the third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 14-9 and the first paragraph of Section 14-12. With regard to the last proposed amendment of the law, the Christian People's Party also believes that father should have the right to take out parental leave if mother receives disability leave. We therefore support the government's proposal for a new third paragraph in sections 14-14. The Christian People's Party has programmed that we want a parental leave of 68 weeks, 10 weeks are reserved for each of the parents, and the leave period may be extended until the child reaches the age of 10. The Christian People's Party believes that it is right and important that part of the parental leave is earmarked for mother, and that part of the father's eartag. We do not fully agree with the government as to just how many weeks to be earmarked for each of the parents, and how many weeks to be free to distribute. Here, there is an important difference between the Christian People's Party at the centre and the left and the right sides at each of its edges. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the government with its line will weaken the rise of the feather quota by gradually turning it into a forceful jersey, where central authorities detail how families should set up their everyday lives. The Christian People's Party wants to keep the parental leave and the father's quota as a positive instrument for the family so that fathers can choose more leave in line with their own wishes. We want to facilitate freedom of choice in that area as well. That's why the Christian People's Party strongly warns against the Right and the Advance Party's line on the other side, that we should just reverse the time and remove the feather quota. Christian People's Party believes it's naive and remote. We're afraid that this blue line will lead us a lot of steps back. Fathers still need the drumming card in the sleeve that the father quota is today, to employers to get as long leave as they want, and we're still not in the finish line. It's well documented that the spring quota is working. The father rate has been a very successful tool, giving children more time with father. We know that for every time the spring quota has been extended, the fathers have increased their leave time. Today, almost all fathers take part of the leave. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the majority of the Storting agree that the father quota is still a necessary instrument for children to spend more time with their fathers, and that the father quota gives an important right to father, who should not be removed, because the father quota and designation increase freedom of choice for fathers in today's society. It would be a retreat if my father were deprived of this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e271	Today, the size has a proposal to extend the spring quota by two weeks and the total social benefit period by one week. Furthermore, and it is also very important, father is entitled to take out parental leave for 12 weeks in cases where mother receives disability pension. These changes represent a significant strengthening of the parental leave scheme and facilitate the possibility for fathers to increase their parental leave withdrawal. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals and that they are celebrated with cake. I think there are very good reasons for that. It is a good day for the country's fathers and for all those who are concerned with child care and with a good gender equality policy. It's like fathers are taking out an increasingly large part of the parental leave period. Nevertheless, the reality in Norway remains that mothers withdraw 85 pst. of all parental leave days as a whole. It is an important objective for the government to increase fathers' withdrawal from parental penitentiary. Increasing distribution of leave between mother and father can contribute to a more even distribution of care in the home and participation in the working life. It gives mothers the opportunity to strengthen their relationship with the world of work, which we know is an important contribution to reducing the pay gap between women and men. Not least, a long femoral leave allows for the early establishment of good contact between father and child. This is therefore a good gender equality policy for women in working life, a good gender equality policy for men in family life and, above all, a good child care policy. Fathers want to take care of themselves, they want to take parental leave, and they want to be recognized as first-class caregivers in line with mother. From 1993 onwards, the father's quota has ensured that Dad is able to do so. Today, a widely accepted and expected father is taking out the weeks reserved for him. These are positive attitudes that exist just because of the spring quota. The birth rate has changed Norwegian society. That's why I'm amazed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are so bastant in their resistance to the father's quota. We still need it. Still, there's a long way to go until it's just as natural for father to take out leave as it is for mother. Attitudes and expectations in society make it difficult for some fathers to take out more than what is reserved for them. I get e.g. requests from fathers that the mother considers that the part of the leave which is available for free distribution is itss. We know that there are a lot of jobs in the country where it's not that easy for dad to go and ask for leave beyond the father's quota. We don't want to go back to a situation where men have to stand in their hands at the boss's office if they want to take out a solid cardboard. Therefore, the spring quota remains a necessary mechanism to ensure that a father is granted part of the leave, and it is important and good that the scheme is now strengthened. I should like to see that we could abolish the quota because it was not needed, but there is a long way to go. It is just to look at the situation in Denmark, where there is no spring quota, and where male withdrawals of leave are drastically lower than in Norway. I don't think it's about Danish fathers wanting to be with their children to a lesser extent, or that Danish families are much less equal. It is about the fact that the political grip on the feather quota is still necessary. Then I register with interest that the Right of the National Meeting proposed tax exemptions for families who shared the leave as much as possible. I also understand that the right-hand side is a little tired of the debate, as the big-time representative Horne said instead. I think it might indicate that the right parties also realize that resistance to the spring quota has not been a win cause in the opinion. We have discussed for a long time whether there was a need for political action to make families share the leave equally. The right-hand side has rejected that. I interpret the proposal on tax exemptions as admitting that there is a need for policy measures to help families on the road. So all of a sudden, the question is, what measures are the most effective, tax-free or spring-free measures? I'm convinced that the quota is still the way to go. Then I'm very happy that we're now getting the paper issue for fathers who have children with a woman who is receiving disability pension. There are fathers who have until now been prevented from taking leave because the mother has not earned the right to parental leave and does not have the opportunity to go to work after birth. It has been perceived as very unfair by many. I have a lot of understanding of that, and I'm therefore very happy that we can now do something for that group. What we adopt today is good for the child, good for the mother, good for the father and good for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e292	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e296	The Christian People's Party and the government parties agree that the father's quota is important because it gives children and fathers more time together, and we are very pleased about that. We are also pleased that we have a majority to extend the parental leave. So the council knows that the Christian People's Party is also a strong defender of the cash support, precisely because it allows more time for children and parents together. And I wonder sometimes: how can it be that time with the child as long as it is parental leave is so positive for the left side and the councillor Lightbakken, while once it is the cash support that allows time with the child, there is no longer a good time between parents and children?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e303	We have a red parental leave scheme primarily because it should be good for the child. And then it's also good for equality. I think that's a lot of the starting point for the Christian People's Party to think like the government when it comes to the principles, even though we disagree about the dosage in the system. The point where our paths divide is enough is that we see the cash support today as a mechanism that largely maintains the traditional division of labour in the families. There are women who stay at home, while we need increased female participation. In addition, there is a difference between a policy to provide good care at home for children when they are very small and what cash support does, namely to encourage parents to be at home at a time when society has an increasingly better childcare facility as an alternative to parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e308	I noticed that the Council of State has undertaken to be the rapporteur of the Højres national meeting, and it was re-enacted that tax incentives should have been adopted at the national meeting to increase the use of leave. I was present at that country meeting. No such proposal was made, and therefore it was not adopted. So I have to ask the Council of State what scheme he is aiming for that the Right should have gone in for that just contains such a tax element.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e313	It is well possible that no such proposal was adopted at the Hearing Officer's meeting. If I got hurt to say that, I'm sorry. But at least I was confronted with proposals for such a system in connection with the Right National Meeting, and I have also commented on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e318	First, at least I can assure the Council of State that the undersigned is not tired of the debate. I have only realized that the arguments are not passed until 2013. In the debate, the Council of State is very concerned about the fathers who might have to go to their employer to force themselves on and ask for papiermission, and he said that the new law change was going to make it much easier for them. Today, we see a lot of people who work in the private sector, who work in small businesses and in individual companies, who do not have the opportunity to take out these weeks. The children, who are not allowed to see any of the parents, are the ones that go out of the way, because they have to go to kindergarten or to the day-to-day mother because my father does not have the opportunity to do this. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have the same concern for the self-employed and sole proprietorships as it has for those who work in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e327	The answer to that is yes, and that is why the government has strengthened the rights of leave for self-employed people. We want them to have the opportunity to participate in welfare schemes like this one in line with others. Then I am a little surprised that the representative asks questions as if it were only men who had businesses or jobs as self-employed people, who would make it difficult for them to be at home. There are also many women in this position who, when they have children, for obvious reasons, have to find the opportunity to be home for a period of time. I think there are few jobs that are impossible to combine with a period of leave, especially because we have such flexible arrangements, for example. the possibility of taking leave through the Time Account Scheme. That's why I think we have a system that's flexible, that's geared towards the breadth of our working life. So it's also the way that the father ratio comes to the top of a system that's already the most plentiful in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e334	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e339	It's great with ours. It's sun and heat, and there's people in the streets. It's struck me one thing this spring: that there's no other country in the world where you see such springy streets full of babysitting men. Both in Oslo and in the valleys, in the city and in the countryside, you can see this: happy dads who wander around on their little miracle. Yes, many times I have thought: this street image has not come about by itself. The father quota has been a success. The father ratio has changed society's view of fathers and of the human role. Still, it's like 85 pst. of the total leave is issued by the mother. That means we have to move on. Nevertheless, both the Right Party and the Progress Party believe that the feather quota is an utility, and that society is equal to itself. There's no doubt that we have different glasses on us. An increase in parental parental quota, an increase in parental parental withdrawal, can provide a good basis for parental care distribution even when young grow up. In addition to the benefits for young people, increased participation in childcare among fathers is a condition for increased work among mothers. Sometimes it sounds like we're just dealing with this for one statistics only. But this isn't about statistical pain. This is about the kids, this is about the parents. An increased spring rate will help to increase the number of feathers taking leave. We have experience with this. And it can provide persistent support to the parents who want a smoother distribution of the benefit period. Anyone who thinks this is just about government equality statistics is really wrong. The well-known sentence that we want to push socialist coercions in Norwegian parents turns out not to vote. We have a lot of studies that show that Norwegian fathers want the feather ratio. We are now in the classic debate towards the right on the option. There was no father telling me that he had not had the father's quota, he had not had the option to choose. He wouldn't have the freedom of choice that the right-hand side is talking about, because it's unfortunately like this, whether one likes it or not, that many fathers today don't meet that acceptance, don't meet that understanding at the workplace that we, ideally, would want them to do. I mean, it's almost a mockery to those of us who fight for equality, to assume that society is equal to itself. The Labour Party will take steps to preserve, develop and defend a fairer and equal parental leave. As long as the Labour Party gets involved and decides, the parental leave will be about both mother and father, about both caregivers. It's who's governing the future policy, who will decide whether tomorrow's society will be an equal society or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e352	There are three concepts that I think have shaped the contributions from the government side, in particular the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party – although the Centre Party is also attached to this family-political socialist drive. The three things are first, of course, the extraordinary self-satisfaction. We are now being disseminated the image of cookie-spraying politicians who build society from above, and who may not be so interested in how people can really be very good at setting themselves up without asking their politicians. The second is that there is a lack of trust in the fact that families are best placed to make decisions that affect them almost in their everyday lives. The third thing I would say is a lack of respect for people choosing differently from our political elite thinks is right for the time being. And then, of course, you also have the arrogant attitude towards other parties that you take on telling what they mean, in lightly Polish order. I can only say in the case of the Right National Assembly, that we are on the freedom of choice. We stand for the extension of the total leave period, but will leave it up to the parents to distribute it themselves. So there's no narrowing of the possibility of taking the baby off, but we leave the closer distribution depending on what is appropriate in the family. Then, at the national meeting, we have also stressed that we want the principle of self-sufficiency – which naturally will also lead to greater withdrawals from fathers – just to make freedom of choice real. Otherwise, I hear that the red-greens in the hall today, on the nearest principle, are heading towards freedom of choice: now, probably, the bourgeois come with their freedom of choice rhetoric. And that's right, because freedom of choice means that you don't take the decision of those who are the closest to making decisions, that we don't burden the political system with detailed decisions that families can make for themselves. Then there is also the attitude to freedom of choice that it is excellent if it is used in the way that politicians have determined – otherwise it is not good. It reminds me a little bit of Henry Ford, who in the automobile industry's childhood was only able to produce black lacquered T-demander. When someone then complained about it, he said: Everybody can choose the color they want, only they choose black.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e369	This is Father's day – or, more specifically, this is children's day. And it must, as many people have been about, duly celebrate. The Council of State and the Chairman of the Committee have been eating cake. Even I started the day not eating cake, but cake slices with our daughter. The family, which is now three, is waiting to be four soon. Our term date is set to July 8th, tactically enough. So just as long as we're on July 1st, we're also going to have to take part in the government's amazing policy. As a father most, I am also concerned about freedom of choice. And as families most, we want a flexible system. That's exactly why I'm in and I'm proud of the grips the government has done, and I'm also doing today. I have met many men who face challenges when they are going to meet their employer and understanding – or perhaps no understanding – about the desire to be at home, take responsibility at home, both when the child is ill, and in the form of fetal leave. They get drag help and increased freedom of choice with our policies. I have also met many men who have met the wall, almost, when they have presented their desire to take a greater part of the parental leave, because Mother feels that it is her leave, and that there is something the man comes and takes from her. These fathers are given increased freedom of choice, increased opportunities, with government policies. The men who want to be at home are given an increased opportunity to do so. The right-hand side claims in this debate – and has done so in the past – that this is a socialist coercion. Studies show that parents believe that parental leave is already flexible and good today, and most will take off in line with the change we are making today. The number of fathers taking out the feather quota has gone up from 900 to 40,000. A clearer expression of the political collapse of the right-hand side should be sought further. A good example is Denmark. There the number of fathers taking leave has been reduced. This must also have brought with it the Right Party and the Advance Party. Don't they care, or do they think it's the mothers who should be at home? Their policies do not increase freedom of choice; they reduce freedom of choice. With the Right Policy – and in particular with the Progress Party’s proposal for a more flexible working life – there would be further pressure on young children’s parents. With their attack on the Working Environment Act and with their proposal to remove the parental quota: does the President think there will be more or less fathers taking out fetal leave? Solveig Horne was tempted to go into the archive to find his speech. That's pretty much where they go when they're looking for their political grips. On the other hand, we have looked into the future when we outsource our policies to make it possible to combine work and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e384	Today it was nice to go over Egertorget and meet with cake, because there was a good symbolism in the piece of cake we were given, namely that the fathers get a more extended right to parental leave. And it's a new, big step towards a more equal society. I became a father for the last time in 1979 – 28 April to be completely accurate. How many people were given the paper commission then, but I got – after hard negotiations with my boss – four hours off. And it was paid. But I think it's good to point out that the world has moved on with such a thing that we're discussing today – just the great steps from four hours, after tough negotiations, to the x number of weeks, which is the matter we're dealing with today. I want my children and grandchildren to have the best possible framework conditions for meeting their new everyday life as parents, as today's changes in the law on social security add up. When I hear the representatives Hornes and Hofstad Helleland's argument for freedom of choice, seen in a conservative context, I fear that we will soon come back to not the time in 1979, but closer to the early 1990s, and there we will not. The experience from Denmark shows us in which direction we can go, and that's not the way, but it's the opposite way. That's exactly what I think it might be very good to be involved in this debate, where we want to develop, among other things. the paper issue. With the arguments that the citizens have used here today – what about the farmers, what about the self-employed, what happens to them – I actually fear that the bottom line of the company will count more than the best of the children. I think that's an argument that's important to bring with it. Then I think back again about my employer, who said: you only get four hours off, because you have a job to do. I think it's worth bringing with me. The freedom of choice also has its price, and a price can just be that children's best loser in favor of the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e398	I agree entirely with the speeches made by the previous speaker. It was the reply of the representative Tetzschner to the Council of State on the Right National Meeting and the proposal there that led me to take the floor. I was also confronted with the proposal for an equality bonus in relation to the equal sharing of parental leave – tax relief if you divided the leave equally into two. That's why I did some detective work from my iPhone. I see that Resolution 42 of the Right Women's Forum is called 'the equality bonus that gives parents choices'. It is well possible that the Court’s national meeting has not considered the proposal but that a proposal has been submitted to the Court’s national meeting for an equality bonus, it must be said, to be correct. With regard to that proposal, I maintain that there is a recognition that there is a need for public incentives for a more equal parenthood. Thus, you can also ask why the Right does not want to use the incentives that work and have worked in Norway. So to the representative of Tetzschner, the principle of self-employment has been introduced in Norway. What's left is some groups that don't have the right to exit. We are taking important steps today for those who are with a woman who is receiving disability benefit. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for a debate that has been classical. It is also classical that the Right sees legal rights as a contrast to freedom of choice – they also refer to the Working Environment Act. I wonder where the Right's freedom of choice is for all the employees who need legal rights to join the table with the employer in order to be able to take leave at all. The distinction between right and left is as classic as this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e409	I expect that we can hold a political debate on what the parties take of positions, based on what they adopt and treat, possibly. If there are any interesting proposals that are voted down after a sharp vote at the national meeting, it may also be of interest to the public to know. In terms of what more private proposals might contain, which are not even promoted in plenary, there are rather thin arguments to point out if this is interpreted as a special turning point in Right policy in relation to what we adopted last year, as it was then interpreted. Then, at the end of the debate, I just want to say that there are two views on freedom of choice. There are some people who believe that freedom of choice is something that politicians push down on the population if they run for their own tax money and do things so that they can get their own money back in some form. I sometimes reflect on the expression shy arrangements. Who's shy? Are these the politicians as private individuals? No, this shyness of schemes – yes, any scheme – comes from taxpayers themselves. You live on paid taxes and taxes from ordinary people and thus withdraw their freedom of choice to spend that money, and then some of this is returned. After it has been subtracted from some efficiency loss and public bureaucracy, fortunately, part of this is also coming back to the population in the form of nice things. And then there's been a review theme and a tone in the debate that it seems like the red-greens don't believe that ordinary people are reading newspapers or keeping themselves informed about what educators and professional environments might think is good for children in general. It seems that the red-green politicians believe that what is good for the child can be objectively established once and for all, almost as a rash of exact science. And then you make decisions that bind everyone to special patterns, without the flexibility that it would give if you said to the individual family: Here are all the weeks that you can distribute internally in the family, as you want. One of the more curious things I've heard in today's debate is that in the family, to stand stronger in the discussion with their spouse, one should pick up authority from the country's equality minister. What kind of distrust is it to the individual family? The family depends on working together every day, on children, on practical things, on picking up, etc. And so you should go to the politicians and ask for such advice!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e420	I have to be very brief. There is no one who has said today that the Right has adopted a new policy in the field. However, it must be reasonable to refer to a proposal from the Right Women's Forum, which has become the front line of the Right Women's Policy Leader in public, in debate, among others. State councils and depositors. Otherwise, I record that the Right refuses to respond to what they would think if it turns out that the removal of the parental quota will lead to a reduction in people's real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e429	I think that the debate that is coming all the way down is quite interesting, because the representative from the Right, Tetzschner, is trying in a way to present it as if it were any Right-wing representative who proposed this equality bonus at the Right-wing National Meeting. It's not at all. It is the head of the Women’s Policy Forum in the Right – and she also has the support of those who are participants in this forum – who have promoted this at the national meeting. Although this was not adopted at the national meeting in the Right, it is obvious that there is still a debate in the Right on the feather quota. Nor is it a secret that when it was adopted at the national meeting in the Right last year, it was after strong opposition from very central people in the Right who are also members of this assembly. That there will still be such a debate in the Right in the future is interesting. It's obvious that Tetzschner thinks it's a little uncomfortable when we take up the father's quota, because we know that before 1993, when we had no father's quota, there were almost no fathers who took out the paper issue. Why didn't they? Was it because fathers were so much more tame that time? Was it because they didn't want a father's quota? Was it because women were so much stronger? The reason is that legislation needs to guarantee fathers' rights, because here are the strong, traditional gender roles that govern this. It was in 1993, and this is still the case today. When we see that the length of the spring quota is what fathers take out on leave, it tells us that the strong traditional gender role patterns are still there. It has nothing to say if father is tough enough to man up and take that discussion at home or not. There's a lot of outside things that govern this. Then, of course, we are talking about this freedom of choice. Yes, what's this freedom of choice about? In the Netherlands, parents have 16 weeks of parental leave, in France there are 16 weeks, and in Germany there are 14 weeks. In Norway, we now have 57 weeks. If you ask girls in the Netherlands and in France what freedom of choice is all about, it's actually about being able to combine being active and having young children. That's the top of freedom of choice. It envys many countries in Europe. We can be proud that we are further expanding this parental leave and that fathers are allowed to participate in this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e438	The representative Michael Tetzschner gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e441	Both the comments and the submissions could be shorter if we adhered to what the parties actually adopt, and not what proposals are sent and are not dealt with at national meetings. Then we could also get a lot of idle ammunition to others. We stick to what the parties mean. Then I would like to emphasise again that the National Court of Justice decided on the freedom of choice. It wasn't for discussion this year. And then we've underlined the point of self-employment, because it's important that as the education community gives us a more equal working life, so will women seek careers to a greater extent than they did in the past. Education gives a much greater degree of new choices compared to what was the tradition before, and it eventually infects the working life as well, because people want to use their education once they've got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e448	I think this has been a bit of a special debate, because the debate has not concerned itself with what this matter involves. The issue we are now dealing with is the care of our very least. The debate the red-greens are able to make it into is a debate about what the Right believes and does not mean, about the right-hand side's rhetoric. I think it's very special. If it's such a big day to celebrate, and the councillor and committee leader uses the morning to stand at Karl Johan and eat cake, I think it's strange that you're not more concerned with making arguments as to why this is such a great case. Several of the red-greens stand on this pulpit and spend time talking about what the Right-side means, what the Right shall do, and what the Right has not meant. What resolutions are being discussed, or not discussed, at the Right and the Right national meetings must be completely uninteresting to them. The point is that the right has put forward several proposals in this Chamber, where it is said that we are in favour of the free sharing of parental leave. I would also like to say that the Right Women's Forum is a very important player in the Right, and what they want to contribute to is more freedom of choice and more flexibility for families. That is the starting point for us wanting to make proposals in this matter. We want to make more provision for parents to have the opportunity to influence the child's life and their own family life, and they fear the government's detailed management. Right wants to give mom and dad equal rights to earn withdrawals. We want a much simpler system, and therefore we have proposed that the government should take a full review of the parental leave in order to make it much easier to deal with. I see there's no such thing. Instead, even more detailed and difficult legislation is being put forward to deal with. I hope that in the future, when we're going to discuss how families are going to get their lives arranged, we're going to take into account what we can do at Stortinget for families to get a better daily life, for families to have room to take care of their little ones, for families to live a good life. There I promise that the Right will make more exciting proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e479	I'd like to think that there are still many years left for those kids who were the theme of the previous debate on father's allowance to be able to apply for a college. But in the meantime, we'll be able to clarify the role of the professional balls. Anyway, when you look at the formal definition of the role our colleges should play, I must honestly say that this is one of the most noble things we have within our education system. What, then, is it in my eyes that makes these disciplines so unique? Yeah, they're going to match our business with a tailor-made workforce with higher education in a flexible and professional way, adapting to local needs. I guess it's better if it doesn't make sense. Many trade union workers have a strong desire and need for more education, in addition to the letter of formal education and of young people. For this reason, the academic spheres are important to meet this demand for more competence. Vocational education is not just a professional specialisation. We talk as much about an alternative to a higher-level vocational education. It's just a shame, so many people start in a high school, or a university, without completing their education. For example, an evaluation showed a short time ago at 44 pst. of the students in engineering training failed. There is therefore good reason to assume that many young people would have benefited more from choosing a vocational education instead. It is considerably closer to the needs of the labour market. Therefore, it is very important that we get this – still a little unique and noble – offer to work well. I was now thinking in particular of the situation underpinning the interpellation, i.e. that private providers feel a little sidetracked by individual municipalities when allocating funds. That's not good. It is such that the responsibility for the trade unions has now shifted from state to state level. The county councils are thus free to decide whether the union school offer in the county is to be realised under their own control or through the financing of private providers. This should still be the case, because the county authorities have regional competence and they are close to the regional needs and challenges of the labour market. In most disciplines, the county and private vocational schools are complementary. They complement each other in a good way. But within health and social services, where the private stands for 60 pst. Of the offer, it scans a little bit. It is true that private colleges, such as the National University of Applied Sciences, AOF and NKS Nettstudien, have a long experience in providing adapted training for adults, with flexible forms of implementation. They are, therefore, very important contributors to meet the great need for expertise that we know for years to come. It is actually close to saying that they are a necessary part of our education system within this sector. What gives cause for concern is that there seems to be a continuous trend from several states that private trade unionists feel discriminated against by county councils and that county councils have a double role. Then we're at the principal issue of my interpellation. I believe it is important to maintain the principle that this unique and noble educational provision should remain a close one in the workplace, flexible and professional. That is the starting point for my small challenge to the Minister of Knowledge: how should the interaction between the private and county communities be pursued, and what role and conditions should they have in our education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e502	I agree with the representative of Bremer that the vocational schools have an important place in the education system. And a lot has happened in recent years when it comes to the development of vocational schools. Today’s visions of vocational education have evolved in stages over the past decade. An important part of this work is the revision of the Law on Vocational Education in 2007, which made it clear that post-secondary education should be based on secondary education and be a vocational alternative to higher education. Furthermore, a change was made to the Fachschulegesetz in late autumn 2010 which required the inclusion of specialised schools in the National Qualifications Framework, i.e. the development of learning outcomes description for these courses as well. Representatives of the National College Council participated just before Christmas last year in the preparation of proposals for such learning outcomes descriptions. As the representative is probably familiar with, proposals for such descriptions for all levels from primary to vocational education have recently been at the hearing. The Ministry is now working on the summary of the hearing opinions. The National Qualifications Framework will also contribute to further defining the place of vocational schools in the education system. Another important change related to the vocational schools was made in the context of the administrative reform, cf. St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007 and Innst. S. No 166 for 2006–2007, where responsibility for the operation and financing of specialised schools was transferred from the State of the Ministry of Knowledge to the county councils, with effect from 2010. With regard to funding, it has been a pre-requisite since the adoption of the Law on Vocational Education in 2003, that there is a distinction between the recognition of vocational education and government grants. Market demand and willingness to pay should govern the provision of private vocational education. In addition, the vocational training system is intended to be flexible and ‘education and schooling can be established and completed according to changing skills and capacity needs’, as stated in Ot.prp. No 39 for 2006-2007. This means that education which is no longer required in the labour market should not necessarily be offered by either private or public vocational schools. Such training arrangements require an interaction between providers of vocational training and the regional and national labour markets. This requires providers of vocational education — both private and public — to look at their role and function in relation to both secondary and higher education, and to be in good dialogue with the profession for which they are training. I am responsible for developing the vocational school policy and supervising compliance with the Fachschulegesetz. A system of recognition for new post-secondary school provision has been established in the National Agency for Quality of Education, NOCUT. Furthermore, a new National College Council has been established. On the basis of this establishment, I am concerned that a system of consultation between relevant actors in the field of vocational education is being established. The government will present a major communication on education and research for welfare services in the autumn of 2011. This call for proposals will provide the basis for a comprehensive national knowledge policy on the health and social sciences of the future. This Communication is based on the competence needs of welfare services and how these needs require changes in the structure, governance, organisation, dimensioning and professional content of health and social education at all levels of the education system. The communication will focus on the interaction between the different educational actors and between education and working life. This Communication will mention the role of vocational schools as a supplier of candidates. I have also taken the initiative to set up the Database for Statistics on Vocational Education. This will provide a better overview of the vocational education sector as a whole and will provide a good overview of the overall supply of education, the number of post-secondary education students, etc. The aim of the establishment of the database is also that it will provide better opportunities for overall and local analyses of management and quality work in the subject area. This is necessary, and here we will get a comprehensive statistics on vocational education that could help to make this sector more visible. The database for statistics on vocational education will be in place from the autumn of 2011, and will then be ready to receive reporting from all specialised schools, both private and public. As can be seen from my post, there have been major changes in recent years that will affect the vocational schools. The interaction between state and county councils, the relationship between vocational school and NOCUT, a clearer integration of the vocational schools into the education system and an improvement of the knowledge base, including needs assessments, are all elements that now need time to sit down before any changes are assessed. I want to point out, as I said at the outset, that there is a lot of things that have happened since 2007, and I would venture to claim that with the Stortinges discussion of the message about the education line, the colleges were there as an important part of the debate on higher education. However, as the representative points out, it is essential that the county councils, which are now responsible, are conscious of their roles as school owners, as grant managers and as competence developers. For the private vocational schools, it is essential to have stable and predictable conditions, and it is therefore important that the county council sees the possibilities of having responsibility for both the private and the public supply, either the county or other public vocational schools. In the long term, I see the need for an overall review of the subject, and it would be natural for one then to come back to Stortinget with an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e528	It has been nice for me to be able to thank the Council of State for the answers and clarification of how this interaction and management should work, and not least for the visibility of how to deal with the challenges further in the future. When there's an objection to different practices from state to state, I think it's a little conservative and a little bit in nature that one must be able to accept different priorities from state to state, short and well because the challenges and needs may be different. That is what is meant by this offer, not that it should necessarily be different from state to state, but that it should be adapted to local needs and challenges. Today’s vocational school supply is a relatively fresh supply in the education system, in the sense that it has not yet been completely completed. Many have happened in a relatively short time. I agree with the Council of State that, when they are now included in the National Qualifications Framework, with a description of the learning outcomes, the trade unions will openly strengthen this educational provision and give it a clearer role in the education system. The addition of a National College Council will provide a system for consultation and for dialogue between relevant stakeholders in the field of vocational education. When it comes to health and social services in particular, I am again in agreement with the Council of State that this issue naturally belongs to the home of the alerting of education and research for the welfare services that are already coming to the fall. We face major challenges in this area, and it is not unmistakable that there will be a need for changes relating to both organisation, dimensioning, professional content, the structure and governance of health and social education, within the framework of the State Council's response. So it's quite natural that the theme of this interpellation is viewed in such a perspective. In conclusion, I would like briefly to join the Council of State in stating that it is crucial that county councils are conscious of their responsibilities when it relates to their role as school owners, as deputy managers and not least as experts. I know the county councils well, and I know that the county councils have long traditions for just such a responsibility. So I have confidence that the private tradesmen will also benefit from this in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e547	One of the important reasons for transferring responsibility for the vocational schools to the county municipalities was precisely the representative of Bremer; there are different situations in the different regions. As I said in my first post, it must be possible to be flexible here, even in the case of private school facilities, in view of the constant availability of relevant offers, i.e. offers that are appropriate to the working life that is dominant, or where there is a need for labour in the region in question. I believe that having a responsibility for the vocational schools is a good thing for the county councils, who are already responsible for secondary education and adult education. In addition, the counties are regional development actors. There is a unique opportunity here, in consultation with both other parts of the training system and not least with business and working life, to develop vocational education services that are both relevant and provide students with a good education in view of the working life they are going to enter, whether they are in their region or they are going outside it. But this is a work where there's a lot to do, and what we've come up with, not least through the big news about the education line, has, as I said, gone a little bit step by step, and we've both got some important headmasters in place with the National College Council and put in place a lashing in the county municipalities. There are today over 1,300 approved post-school offers at almost 90 institutions. It is a very large diversity, and it in itself implies, in addition to being private, public and all the defrosting of the structure of these offers, that there is no goal for everything to be equal, but it is a goal to use this fantastic opportunity of education from half a to two years to give a necessary competence to those who do not want to start at college or university, and to those who need something after high school. So I'm very pleased with both this and other interpellation in the Storting today. This is an important field of education, and it is unusually positive from my point of view and from the Ministry of Knowledge that the Stortinget is thus involved in the discussion of the future of the vocational schools. I think we all deserve this to be a good and relevant offer. We're all well served with the quality of the technical schools, and we're all well served that they are predictable and transparent both for those who are going to run them and for those who are going to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e556	I record that we have no less than two interpellations on vocational schools today, and these are from the position. This may indicate that they are a little dissatisfied with their own management of the vocational schools. Then it is okay that they put a searchlight on this. We welcome a new post-school report on health education, which has been announced by the Minister. But I would also like to say that it is legally late in the context of the cooperation reform. At least there is a strong consensus that the flexible and varied educational offer offered by the vocational schools is important. They contribute to a differentiated training offer, adapted to different occupational groups and different needs in the labour market. The fact that they have a differentiated offer means that many adults who work in occupations they do not have training in, for example: the health and care sectors, may take training while they are at work. From different teams we have been made aware that many of the technical schools have had financial problems after the counties assumed financial responsibility. After the counties were transferred that responsibility for the technical schools, it has been reported that the counties prioritize their own schools. According to Abelia, the problems surrounding the dual role of county councils are only growing and emerging clearly in health and social matters. Some examples of this are: East-Agder has notified the NKS that it does not intend to apply for grants for new places of study, as they plan to grant all the grants to their own specialised school. In Troms and Nord-Trøndelag, county councils do not respond to repeated requests for information on application deadlines for studies starting in autumn 2011. Only six out of nineteen counties have established application criteria to which the vocational schools may relate when applying. Some states have announced that they do not intend to apply for new places of study for the autumn of 2011, as they have decided to grant funds to their own specialised school. This is the feedback from the state schools that Folkeuniversitet, AOF and NKS Nettstudien get. These have a long experience in providing adapted, good training with flexible forms of implementation. When we also know that approx. 60 pst, on which several have been involved, of the provision of education and training in the health and social field, it is of great importance that the provision is maintained. The government is responsible for adequately trained health professionals. The party of progress is not satisfied with the fact that the counties have been given the role of being both the goat and the oat trunk in this situation. It is important that the allocated resources for study places are used in the best possible way. Past practice to achieve this was that the Health Directorate redeployed sites to ensure optimal use of the grants. For example, in 2009, there was an increase in the number of problem drug users in Europe. 400 out of 2,500 spaces redistributed. This is no longer possible when the money is locked to 19 counties. A preliminary report from the Health Directorate in April shows that some states have up to half a million kroner standing unused. These are funds that could have been used in other countries that are in greater need, or have a larger educational provision. I think the minister is aware that the number of applicants for health care is actually twice as high as there are places to study. It is a poor use that allocated funds cannot be used in a flexible way when we know that the need for this type of education is high and becomes even greater in the years to come, not least in view of the cooperation reform. It depends entirely on the fact that it is a well-trained health professional for it to work. We cannot then sit and watch that important actors offering this education are at risk of being abandoned. In my view, the administrative reform, which gives the counties more tasks, is used by the government to legitimize the existence of the county municipalities. This means that important national tasks, such as education, are less well-managed, seems to play a much smaller role for the government. I would also like to remind you that the vocational schools have always had a great willingness to change according to the needs of both the public and private sectors. That they'll get so much better if it's the states that rule, I have little faith in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e593	It is exciting to have two interpellations in the hall on the offer of vocational education, interpellations that, when you read them at least, believe can be based on the same problem that we have raised several times. The next one is about funding, and the main thing about it is that we're going to take it. This is about private and public vocational schools managed by one school owner and is a mix of principle debate and practical debate. I noticed that the interpellant used the term "administrative should be able to function". I think we can agree on that so far that you could imagine that it could work. But reality tells something completely different. It's strange to record that there's no good doing enough in the public, there's a need for the private, especially if others can pay, but otherwise it's the public that's going to do it. That part of the debate we don't agree on, and I don't think we should spend any time on it either, because there's so much different starting point that it's pretty useless to use energy on it in this room. I think the interpellation underscores what the Right has raised several times: this education belongs to higher education and should be treated where it belongs, and not to one of the school owners, as it is now. The interpellant said that the county councils had good competence and overview, and therefore it was okay that they directed this. The County Municipality of Hordaland presented a case on the allocation of funds to vocational schools. In the overview that they had made, there was a lack of 800 post-secondary education places in their own county – 800 post-secondary education places were missing, of course in private, in their own state in the production of the case. I can make a list of county councils that have made a case presentation where many of the college places are missing. They do not have an overview, and they do not have the skills — quite amazing and quite daunting to manage this school offer. So to this with the roles. For us, it's quite obvious that it's going to be difficult when one of the school owners is going to get a grant based on what's happening in all of the schools – and then distribute it out. The county councils have also shown that they cannot handle this. One county municipality even put one of the schools to distribute this money between itself and the others. Now, fortunately, the department stopped it. But that's how this professional term operates in these cases. If we're going to follow the logic that here we're going to have a public offer, and then we're going to have a private offer that takes what's needed more than that, what if there's a public and private offer in a state, and the market goes down? I really think the council and the interpellant that then the county council will sit down and assess the quality and the results, and then say, "No, in this case it's the private ones who are the best, so we put down our own offer and transfer the money to the private ones." I don't think so. I have been sitting in the county council and fighting for the existence of the college, and I know what forces work. Then it won't be like that. I think the most important thing here is that the council said she'll come back to this with the organization of the college. She said correctly ‘in the long term’ – I hope it means in the short term, or at least in the shortest possible time. It is important that we grasp this, because otherwise the country is tapped for environments of competence, which are very skilled and can contribute very well, because of uncertain conditions and no predictability, depending on budgets from year to year – but they must live. As a result, the environment of competence disappears. We don't deserve that. What was the starting point of the interpellation was the problem of health care. Then I just want to end by pointing out that there are major challenges now. We can't wait there. So there's a lot of challenges now. The previous speeches were about this, and there is a need for much more of them in vocational training. The interaction reform is going to update this very much, and not least many unskilled people who are now working in the municipalities have been there for so long that they are now entitled to a permanent job. They need to get help in raising their skills, when they want to. We should put all the forces on that – either in private or in public. It's not the name of the top of the letterhead that matters, but it's the competence we have in the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e614	I'm not going to keep any long posts. I'll try to get back stronger in the next interpellation debate, but I have three-four points. Firstly, there is no dissatisfaction with the government's policy that is why we have these two interpellations today. It's, on the contrary, that we want to show interest and commitment, as also the opposition has done in good debates earlier in this room, about a type of education that we're all happy with and want more of, to say it that way. Then I understand that parties who want to put down the county council, certainly believe that the college is going to go to the state. It was just supposed to be missing, if not the college would stand without the school owner. But I think that so far we should have a little more confidence and respect for the county councils and for the county rapporteurs who unanimously – regardless of party political colour – have stated that they look forward to taking over this school team. So let us be a little more humble in the debate about what is going on – and not going on. So to the third and last point: this with the double role problem is interesting in many contexts in terms of government. If we take the colleges back to the state, the double role issue will still lie there. Then it is the State which is to approve and thus manage the private vocational schools, and at the same time finance the public vocational schools. It's going to be just like colleges and universities today in relation to public and private. So the dual role of the public, which is now a challenge at county level, will be a similar challenge at state level if everything is transferred to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e625	It is with a little mixed emotions and with great interest that I followed the debate on Friday, and also these two debates today on vocational education. I was the case rapporteur for the colleges in the last four years, and I have also been a state politician from the late 1980s. I know what it was like when the county council was responsible for the vocational education and we didn't have the money to prioritize them. I remember that there was a massive pressure to try to get the state to take over that responsibility, and that the colleges were to be lifted up and get the dignity they deserved. So we got this public investigation, between bark and wood, which illustrates in an excellent way how the vocational schools have been treated in the Norwegian education system. As a result, in 2003 the State was responsible for vocational education. Then it was cheering far into the lo. It was thought that at last it was perhaps a hope that the vocational education could receive honor and dignity. We can also remember in history, when we had the debate about what the child's name was. Then it became, among other things, referenced to Finland and talked about having a vocational college. We did not choose that concept in Norway, we chose the term ‘discipline school’ and, unfortunately, due to other vocational training, there has been a great deal of misunderstanding about what is really in that concept. The council says we're going to have an overall review of the subject, but with all due respect, we've had it up to several times. If we cannot come back to the fact that the vocational school is treated in the same way as the university and college, as a tertiary education, which it certainly is, there will still be a voteable treatment of this educational line. It is said that the vocational schools belong to the county municipalities because they have a regional development responsibility. After all, you would think that you had completed that reasoning by saying that the colleges should also be a municipal responsibility. Then maybe the argument would have hung on to something. But then the question had become, Why should universities be a state responsibility? This is not about shutting down the county or not. It has nothing to do with it, but simply to equalise education and training which is to be equivalent initially. Then we have to get state funding. I remember the NOCUT conference very well in 2006. There, LO’s lecturer said: I thought in 2003 we had managed to lift the vocational education out of high school, but then the regional message came, which says that funding should be reviewed. I learned that it is not possible to drown in the same river twice, but there I might have been wrong. He thought that there was another saying that was better suited, and that was that a blow under the belt site had to be bent down for. That's how it was experienced by LO: as a straight blow during the belt seat. And that was the whole regional reform. There were some politicians who were very concerned about legitimizing that level of administration. They sat in the small hours of the night and tried to find out what they were going to add to the county council of tasks, and then the technical schools of those people you knew little about were, and they were then put back into the county municipality, in my opinion. Thus they again ported ‘between bark and wood’. And when the colleges today are going to compete with 4 400 km of road as the state road service says is of poor or very poor quality, and it's 10 billion. kr i lagp, how in the world do we believe that the county is going to be able to start buying vocational school education from private actors? Had it not been for precisely the gender difference we pointed out when it came to the health subjects, we had also not been able to lift them into the vocational school education; then it had only been technical and maritime subjects that had been funded. But because it was embarrassing for the socialist government to refer to the gender discrimination that was actually taking place, it was possible to earmark a few cents for health and social education. But there are many other vocational education courses left: the creative subjects, the mercenary subjects and all the other subjects. I wish that the entire course of vocational education was given a boost. We also need to open up the possibility for vocational education to provide preparatory education so that you can enter the vocational school and qualify for admission there. Through our proposals, we have shown that preparatory work can be carried out, for example. in Norwegian, mathematics and study techniques, etc. in order to be able to be lifted in order to enter vocational education. We've also looked at how we can manage to get started so that vocational education doesn't become a blindway in the education system. There is a broad consensus that vocational education should not be a blind road, but there is a long way to go. And the path from vocational training to master's degree in Norway is not easy to get ready for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e653	Then it's my privilege to thank you for this little debate on our tradesmen. I think it was a useful review of the stand at the end of May 2011. I say it that way because I think we'll probably have more of these debates already in the fall or in the winter, when we're going to deal with the big business message about education and research that links to our welfare education. In any case, I believe that the disciplines will have a more central role in our education system in the future. A brief comment to Svein Harberg, who had some good points along the way. He asks: What about the market and demand going down? Will the county councils then give priority to their own or private providers? He used Hordaland as an example. Since some years ago the representative Harberg has bid in Hordaland, I would like to remind you that today the plurality in Hordaland is the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, and it is the plurality that has appeared and decided what they will prioritize when it concerns the purchase of seats by private individuals, possibly under their own control. I'm busy sending out the political signals that this hall sends out to be clear, no matter what state political governance may be of different denominations around Norway. Do not allow this important theme to become a debate for or against the county council. Primarily, the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn was inside this, but he himself fell sadly ugly on the head of the same ditch. So let us get together to ensure that this offer is still professional, must be flexible, and must be appropriate to local and regional needs and working life. That's my last appeal in this context – so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e665	An interpellation debate like this, and also the next, will be important to me in the further work on the national thinking about vocational schools. But I attend more constructive posts than the post for Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, which I did not think was constructive at all. There is no need to focus on everything that has happened in the relation of vocational schools to the county and state respectively. There was another situation at the time. What is the situation now, when the vocational schools have been transferred to the counties, is that one has a national council, that candidates have been given general study competence on condition that the requirement for Norwegian is met, and that the statistical and knowledge base of the vocational schools has been strengthened. At all events, some of the important foundations have been put in place to enable a county municipality to handle vocational schools, whether public or private. But I'm going to be the first to admit, along with many people in the hall here, that there are challenges related to the role that the county council has, both as owner and as provider. And that's one of the challenges I think it's okay to get across with different experiences, and from the department we have, as I said, statistics that help us move on with the subject schools. Of course, the subject schools should be lifted, of course it should be shown that they are important. But they're, on some points, different from colleges and universities, both because education is not research based, as it is at colleges and universities, and because it's shorter education, half to two years, while at our colleges and universities we rarely have any education that is less than three years old. There are also some other differences that make it not natural to have the exact same system. The county councils are currently responsible for adult education, which can also be compared to vocational schools in many ways, because it is both part of lifelong learning and part of adaptation to work. And the county councils should have good experience with that. So I guess Bente Thorsen has misunderstood me on a couple of points. I have not said that everything is getting so much better with the county municipality. There is a lot that can be good with the county council and the state, but I have made it clear that the county council has had a good opportunity here to really be a regional development actor by providing both secondary education, adult education and the vocational schools. Then, of course, it's up to the county councils about those powers, and they get it, so that they get an education offer that matches the working life. I have also not said that there will be a special announcement about the vocational schools. However, in the communication we are reporting on the education of the welfare state, the provision of vocational education will be affected because it is an important part of the need for health education staff such as: The cooperation reform requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e680	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e696	Vocational education is an important and very diverse sector — not least in the previous debate. There are both private and public providers, with offers from half a year and up to two years, there are 90 institutions and over 1,300 approved vocational school services, the Council of State could tell us in the previous debate. The point is that this is not an alternative to right-hand education – it's right-hand education, with the similarities in it. But there are also some important inequalities, which to this day have perhaps led to a ranking between the more academic race and this race that we celebrate in today's debates. This inequality is about something being research-based – I am very happy that we are betting on it in Norway – but at the same time, vocational education and training should be professional and professional. It's just this thing that's so important: we're going to make this stand out as a race that's more equivalent to the more traditional academic one. One of the many debated topics related to vocational education today is funding. The President referred initially to the existing situation in a good way, and it is easy to agree that this is a demanding financial situation to be in, both for the vocational schools, and for those who, in various ways, bring money into that kind of education, to put it that way. When in my time I went hot to transfer the vocational schools to the regions, it was not least because there were regions we talked about, and not county municipalities. I had, and still have, confidence that in such a long and varied and diverse country as Norway, regional tailoring is needed in most policy areas – not least in industrial policy and value creation, and not least in regional development. Therefore, Norway will always have a regional level. We already see it today. After all, the government sector is regionalised through 25-30 different variants. Then the point of those like me, and the point of SV, is that it is important that the regional level is directly elected by people. And when the regional level is about industrial development and value creation, the idea is that vocational schools should be linked to the same nationally elected regional level, based on the point: if there is something that should not least be closely related to business, closely related to value creation, closely related to working life – including the working life we find in the public sector – then it is our vocational schools. It is the interaction between the working life and the vocational schools that should be positive for the working life and for the vocational schools. I have said earlier in debates here, and it was underlined by several in the previous debate – among others. by the Council of State — that it is now important that county municipalities know their visit time. The situation of the county councils is particularly demanding now, because it did not become large, strong, strong regions, but that it became the existing county structure. It is important that they know their visit time, because it is a great responsibility that the county councils here have got trapped, and to which they – as I have said before – have unanimously accepted. It may be that there are some entry problems – for all – but it is quite clear that they are external, among other things. through a couple of statements by county rapporteurs and county councillors, have shown that this looks like they're really getting active and good at. The starting point today, namely the state communism of the vocational school and the fact that it presents some challenges, has been partly printed out in the questions addressed to the Council of State. But I want to clarify something more a couple-three such challenges as it's very important that we all now be able to include in the future solution in this area. One is the mobility challenge. Fortunately, it was clearly underlined by the Municipal Committee in its time when the Municipal Committee dealt with the administrative reform. It is with this in mind that the vocational schools do not have just a local and regional mandate. They also have a national mandate. There's some of the demanding stuff here. It's one of the most demanding things here, isn't it, that the vocational schools have now been given the responsibility for an education that also needs national competence. It is then important that we have a future funding system in place to ensure that students have free choice in educational provision across the border. We know, when we're out visiting colleges and county councils, that they're not sitting there and they're looking forward to possibly starting to deal with a guest student regime, to say it that way. So here it probably has to do some more intelligent solutions. Another type of challenge is that there is a very asymmetry today – that is, some states have many colleges, and other counties have a very minimal degree. The two counties in which I am most pleased here in Norway, Oppland and Hedmark, respectively – without ranking one group above the other – are just two counties which in many ways represent the outer edges of vocational schools. To mention that, I am happy today that these two county councils have decided to establish together the Inland School of Trade, because it is a way to meet some of this challenge, precisely because we do not now need to have a new funding regime that does not address inequalities, and thus in an improper way punishes those who are already large and good in colleges. A third challenge, which has already been mentioned, is the cost of different vocational school services. So there's a cost separation challenge here. And then the fourth and last, which I might in many ways think is the most exciting and the most important, is what's related to this development challenge. If this is an education to develop further – and I believe that both the Council of State, Government and the Church, Education and Research Committee fully agree – it is important that we get a funding system that does not hinder good development and growth, but in some way it can, and perhaps also stimulates it. That's why I'm glad, so summed up, that we have county rapporteurs and county council leaders who at random confirm that this is what they want to take over and develop in a good way. I am very pleased that we have a government council and a government working on the matter. That has been documented in previous debates here. And then I think it's nice that we have another debate in this room just to show – as I said in a previous post – that here there's a church, education and research committee that wants the colleges together to do well. In this way, we want to contribute to the necessary development that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e727	As is well known, in the context of the administrative reform, the Stortinget decided to transfer the financial responsibility for the vocational schools to the county municipalities from 2010 onwards, i.e. just over a year ago. In line with this, funds were transferred to specialised schools previously funded by the Ministry of Knowledge budget to the free income of the counties from the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Funds for specialised schools above the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare were not transferred as a transitional measure to the counties but were retained as a special grant scheme managed by the Directorate of Health. The transitional arrangements will last until 2015. Through the 2011 government budget, the Stortinget decided to return to the Ministry of Knowledge the allocation to the vocational schools previously under Chapter 6A of the Private School Act, in order to ensure a stable framework and further operation of these schools. The background was that these are schools with a national impact field that is economically vulnerable, and as such differs from the technical and health and social vocational school services. So, apart from the previous 6A schools and the education services financed by the Health and Welfare Ministry grant, the county councils are responsible for the fact that there are approved vocational education services in the counties. These offers will take account of both local, regional and national skills needs — as we also discussed in the previous debate. However, the principles governing the distribution of funds to county councils relating to vocational schools have not yet been changed with the transfer to the county councils framework. The appropriations for one year are, as in the past, based on the number of students two years earlier. The transfer of the technical education funds to the county councils did not involve any reduction from either the Ministry of Knowledge or the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The only difference in funding is that the vocational education funds are now part of the free income of counties and that the county council assesses the distribution within its own county municipality. However, the financing system for specialised schools is in the process of being transformed into the framework grant for the county councils, but it has not yet been implemented. The distribution of the framework grant to county councils takes into account structural differences in the costs and income of county councils. The differences between county municipalities are partly significant in terms of cost structure, demographic composition, etc. Both demand and cost of service provision will therefore vary. Cost keys consisting of objective criteria capture the variation in expenditure requirements. The data base in the case of specialised schools is not yet good enough to permit or desirable to allocate the funds previously earmarked to specialised schools through cost keys. So here we have started, as I mentioned in the previous debate, a work on getting a better data base and statistical data base. I have taken the initiative to set up the Database for Statistics on Vocational Education, which will be in place from the autumn of 2011. With a better knowledge base, there will be a better basis for the distribution of vocational education funds through the framework grant to county municipalities. Before considering any further changes in the funding of vocational schools, I believe that one must let the planned changes take effect and have some time to work. In the further follow-up to the effects and effects of this new funding system, of course, I would like to have dialogue with, among other things. National vocational school councils and other key actors in the vocational school sector. I see that there will still be challenges related to the management and development of the vocational school field when grants for vocational school education are included in the framework grant to the county municipalities. With regard to the grant scheme for specialised schools above the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I will, in consultation with the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, assess the transfer of these specialised schools to the counties. At national level, of course, changes in funding and frameworks related to vocational schools will be a budgetary issue which must be assessed in the government's proposals for the state budget and in the subsequent treatment of the Storting. So summarized, we've transferred exactly the same funding, and the money, to the county councils with the transfer of responsibility for the colleges. There is, as was said in the previous debate, great inequality in the country as regards the number of vocational schools in county municipalities, and how they have dealt with this challenge that they have been given. But for so long, I think we're going to give the county councils some time to assess the challenges they're facing. Of course, we keep in constant contact with the county councils, including through the National College Council, and follow developments closely, because no one is worthy of this failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e759	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I fully agree that once we have made the decision that we were making to transfer this to the county councils, we have to show the new school owner confidence by trying out the school owner. And then we're going to have to keep track of what's going on. In this way, I could ideally – which is not legally possible – intend to have an interpellation, as the head of the County Council College. I'm particularly interested in just what the new school owner thinks about this. Most of us – perhaps all of us in the KUF Committee – have probably been around and chatting with both vocational schools, county municipalities and representatives of the trade school council. What strikes me -- at least the way I've seen it -- is that there's no one who has asked for rematch or who doesn't want to put the new system into practice. On the contrary, they are all concerned about finding the right solution to implement this. My experience is that representatives of both the FTE and the FTE seem very exciting to cooperate with local and regional employment in an offensive way. They are also very concerned that they absolutely want to take care of the offers that are already in place today and that have a national justification and national recruitment. The word commonly used in such discussions is the word activity management, which in some ways appears to be a slightly inconvenient response, that a kind of higher education/university-like form of governance is given, which is more related to activity than it is today. This does not mean that there is automatically a flow of money – for all things. Still, cash flows must be managed here. But it's a governance that might stand out as something less bureaucratic and a little less demanding than what can be in the system so far. I look forward to the further work at national level, what is now going to be done at regional level, and not least what is going to be done at the Swedish School Council. Then I'm sure – precisely because this is an education people will lift up and up and not the opposite – that there will eventually be a very good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e770	In connection with the transfer of responsibility for the vocational schools to the county municipalities, I was present at a contact conference with the county municipalities last year, and heard many good examples of how county municipalities have established cooperation with industry, included the private vocational school services and integrated it well with their adult education responsibilities. There are good examples of this around, and I choose to hope for the longest time that all county municipalities see the responsibilities and opportunities of this very combination of education – vocational education and education that are not as long as at a university or university. What is the situation after 2009 — i.e. in the last few years — is that, through the government’s revised national budget in 2009, we also increased and strengthened the officially recognised vocational schools by 400–450 new places. It was meant to be, and is, an uplift for the whole subject of college and for the opportunities you have to educate people in this way, with the shorter educations and the specialized educations. We have also created an opportunity for student mobility. It was also a topic earlier, where schools get grants according to the number of students, the way I've explained before, regardless of the residence counties. So here there's probably room for even more flexibility and exchange of students, especially in the counties that Aksel Hagen mentioned, who don't have so much vocational school offering themselves. These are things that are necessary for us to follow on from the department. But the most important part of the interpellation is about the very complex structure it is in the subject schools that are funded by the framework grant, respectively, in the way I explained to the health and social schools, vocational schools with state subsidies and other private vocational schools, just to mention the four main categories of vocational schools with slightly different funding and the way to run it all. So it's a challenge. I'm aware of that. However, the aim is that we should have a solid and good vocational school offering with good professional and learning outcomes for the students, that we should train workers who are well-adapted to regional needs, and that, of course, in this way we should strengthen regional skills opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e779	After listening to the Council of State in two inter-pelling debates today, it seems to me that the dream scenario for this Council of State must be to become the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs – for the whole focus is on the county as a system and institution – rather than actually being the most busy of the students who need these educations, and of the business that needs these foreign students. To me, it's a paradox. At the same time, there is reason to note that the interpellant, who is currently busy with the fact that the funding systems are going to be optimal for the academic spheres, was completely over-informed that we were on the right track, and that it was just a run-off, when we discussed the maritime education on Friday. It either shows that a weekend is a very long time if you are an SV, or that one might not be as happy as one expressed on Friday. If the latter is the case, I'm glad of it, but then one should be more clear about it when we discussed one of the most important educations in the future. So the funding system within today’s model – if one is to put on this one – also has obvious weaknesses. I was, among other things, in on that during my post on Friday about the maritime education. When an effort is made to recruit more and more students into maritime education, but choose to finance the provision of education in the vocational schools based on search dates two years back in time, there is an automatic underfunding here that prevents the county from running its own colleges, but also prevents the possibility for private students to take up more students and get it funded. This shows that the discussion we had Friday, and the discussion we have today, is equally good and equally necessary. The question is whether the interpellant to a greater extent than on Friday is in agreement with us today. And then the question is also to the Council of State: what time should a person actually decide that it is necessary to finance the places of study to which students are now getting added? Higher education places require more funding. For example, as long as the Council of State adheres to today's funding model, it must choose to finance education for the latest known search figures instead of financing for search dates two years in time. A concrete challenge for the Council of State is whether, in the light of this interpellation, it will make such assessments, so that we can use them to increase search numbers — for example. for maritime education — to actually integrate more into education. There is no doubt that for the Progress Party, and for several of the others in the opposition, that is subsidiary policy. I believe that today's funding model shows quite clearly that it would have been far better for the state to take responsibility for the academic spheres, in line with all other tertiary education, and financed the study places directly, in line with other higher education institutions. I don't think the government will be there today either, even if I would like to. However, it is crucial that not only does one now engage in a technical discussion about how the county council as an institution can best fulfil its role, but also that the state council takes its part in the responsibility through the funding system – whether it goes directly to the institutions that run the education provision or it goes to the county council. Regardless of the model's key stuck in the pockets of the state council, which can solve these challenges, but which has so far chosen not to do so. This is why the challenge is passed on, and I expect the Council of State to respond more to the challenges it is given than on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e796	First, I want to say it's great – the interpellant and I have also been in many joint meetings where we've had on the table challenges with the funding system we have today – that the interpellant follows up a debate that we've had several times, in the hope of moving on. I think that's very good. I would also like to support him in the fact that the reason we have these debates is that we want the vocational school well, and not least that we see the need for the vocational school. I think that need gets even stronger for a few years ahead of us. So it was great that it was established that there is higher education. The vocational school is higher education. That is why we have proposed several times that it should be treated as higher education also in terms of funding. And I think it's very exciting that the representative Hagen is launching an idea to see if we might find a new funding method, for example. as a higher education. So a little bit to show trust in the county councils: I agree with the council that – it was in the previous debate, they go a little into each other – we don't have to talk about it as if everything is misery, because that's not it! The point that we've addressed this several times -- and I think the same thing is true for these two interpellations today -- is just to avoid misery. When one sees things that scour a little bit, then one has to grip it, and then one has to adjust quickly. It's right that we should show trust to the county councils that have been given this task, but it's also true that they have to be trusted. It is – as I have mentioned several times before – also a fight against bureaucracy in the county municipalities. In a day-to-day environment where they are going to prioritise money for different purposes, the subject schools are challenging and not everyone sees the same need. And that's at least so that you don't have to have them in your own state, because it can be solved in other ways. I think the council has a little too much time. That's what I said in the previous case, and I'm going to say it again: Here, someone has to hurry, because what's going on with the competence? What happens to the competence of East Agder now, when that's what the representative Bente Thorsen said, that the private have been told that there's no point even in applying for the county council, because there's no money here, here we're going to use the funds on our own. Yes, what happens then to the competence behind the courses? It's crumbling. It's scary, because we need that competence, and we need that offer. That's why you have to be on the hook. Then it again refers to the National College Council, and I record that the Council of State is very pleased with it. That's good. I am not quite sure whether the Council is so satisfied, because we are now hearing about important matters relating to the vocational school, which is up to date and approaching a decision, without the Council being involved. What I would like to point out here now is that if there is to be any change in the funding of the vocational schools, the vocational school council must be included from the very beginning and be a real contributor to how this should be. They must not experience being those who are going to approve things in the last few years, but be real about how the college is going to evolve and how the funding is going to be. So my call is to follow the input from the interpellant Aksel Hagen, that the Council of State takes it along and starts a process to see how to secure a financing model in the future. We're not going to sit and wait any longer, we're going to start work now, together with the college council, together with the different environments, and ensure a funding system that makes the environments of competence stand, that it's predictability, and that we have a good vocational school offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e824	The representative of Hagen is right that Norway has major regional challenges. I agree with that, and I want to add that Norway is one of the least homogeneous countries in Europe, not least nutrition. It is that the challenges of working life can be one thing in the inner Austland, and something completely different in our mountain regions. The South has its challenges, the West has its own, and so we can go all the way up to Finnmark and North Norway. This means that ideally, a funding system must also seek to absorb, and perhaps also capture, this inequality. The cost of an offer may vary greatly from the cost of another offer. This can, of course, be taken into account in the allocation of the framework financing, where such structural considerations are taken into account in the allocation of funds to the county councils. In any case, it will be my approach to the issue, and I am very much in agreement with Mr Hagen that this should be done closely in the labour market, i.e. in the county councils. If a central bank is to distribute the funds, as the right-hand side of the agenda says, I am very interested to know if the Stortinget is going to have this detailed knowledge – and this is an extra detailing knowledge to capture all local needs – or is it the bureaucracy that is going to take over this responsibility that is currently regional? After having followed local business in the West for a few years, I would say that I know the labour market's need for competence. I have no doubt that the trade unions still have to be professionally run by the labour market regionally. It is such that local businesses and local work are closely involved in the county councils, and it has a unique potential to influence the design of the college. I see an obvious reason for concern that this can be eliminated by a more central allocation. Now I register that the representative Dale thinks that this competence should be centralised into the capital. This model might have worked in homogeneous countries like Denmark or the Netherlands, but I strongly doubt that he is functional in Norway in the future. I'm happy for the Council of State's clarifications, that today's system must be allowed to work, before we start experimenting with other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e835	I would like to thank you for the debate. I also believe that these two debates well illustrate the situation in terms of political change in this area. Then I think that those who work with the college, and are happy at the college, should be happy that there is such a great commitment, and that there is so much uncertainty in itself, well, but at the same time a great willingness to make this land in a good way. So maybe there's some disappointment that the temperature of this debate today is a little bit lower than the temperature was when we discussed maritime education. I think that's because the last time we debated this, the debate was linked to a big message or not a big message, and there we ended up a little different. I think the debate today just shows that there is no big message that is the challenge in this area, because there are so many processes going on. We already know a lot, and the Council of State has stressed that she will bring in even more knowledge. Here, there is every reason not to take the big message, but to be in the practical, concrete development work that is now under way. That is a confirmation for me of this debate. Then I also wonder that the representative Dale criticises the Council of State for thinking completely and connecting and connecting other departments. For me, it's a plus at a specialist council and not a minus. If we are to take the vocational schools back to the state again, it will still be important that this education has close contact with, and has close interactions with, business, working life, high school, etc. So this is another example that it's important to think completely. Then the state councils inside the picture must also be able to show that they see the need to cooperate with each other. It's good that that's the starting point here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e844	I thank you for your input and debate, and I agree with what Hagen said in his last speech that the future of both funding and structure in vocational schools will depend entirely on a good cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Either that ends with one or the other type of solution, it will be absolutely essential that we have a good communication about this. I have three points at the end. One is the criticism of funding now based on reported recording figures from two years ago. It is not uncommon, nor in other parts of higher education. It depends a little on how well the reporting base and how well the statistical basis are. But that's not an unusual way to think about -- the long-termity that lies in it, while you're sure you have good reported recording numbers, well to notice. So it doesn't have to mean anything negative for what they are at all times the existing classes or the number of students in the vocational school offer. The second is that post-secondary education is something more than secondary education and in that way a part of higher education as a whole. But there are important differences between colleges and colleges, I mentioned some of them in a previous post. A few important differences are the need for vocational education under the Law on Vocational Education, while there is no such requirement under the Law on Higher Education. At the same time, recognition and accreditation systems are somewhat different, and universities and universities are based on general study competence, which is not a requirement for admission to vocational education. In addition to that, I fully agree that in our diversity of educational services beyond secondary level, the vocational schools have a good place as part of higher education. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the case of a future financing system and, to the extent, the structure of the vocational schools, I am very pleased with the two debates we have had now. I think we've got interesting insights, and I want to be open to constructive and good suggestions that primarily ensure the competence and knowledge conveyed through the colleges. It is the one that is most important to me, not the structure as such or the system as such, but the content we get out of it, the quality of the offer, and thus the level of knowledge that the future workforce gets that has taken on education through a vocational school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e855	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e871	I'm sorry that it's a little bit of an academic interpellation text, but it's a very important and very academic topic as well. We have discussed a great deal in this room in terms of higher education. That is not the aim of this debate. This is not a debate on crowns, but a debate on the financing model and how we can maintain the quality of the models we have chosen. Nor should we talk about the cutting of the rest, which we have also discussed. I aim to be a little forward-looking – about how we equip ourselves to meet new challenges for higher knowledge institutions in a new era. Some of the keywords here are how we're going to compete in international competition between knowledge institutions, and what we're going to offer both to students and to those who teach and research at our institutions. I believe that we have an amazing golden opportunity with the so-called younger wave. There is also an important reason for raising this debate. The central statistical agency has estimated that by 2020 we will have between 30,000 and 50,000 new students on a national basis. State councils might have even fresher numbers to come up with. To that I would say, it's a fantastic opportunity, not a problem. The vision of the knowledge society of the future cannot fade away in a student queue! At the same time, it is essential to ensure that study provision is of good quality and that institutions have capacity and funding to meet these objectives. At the time of the introduction of the knowledge reform, the entire higher education funding system was implemented. In today's financial system, the Ministry of Knowledge finances the institutions in two parts. 60 pst. is allocated as strategic means — what I normally call a basis — to assigned study places at each institution each year. 40 pst. is provided in the form of a profit-based set-off for the number of study credits produced by each institution. This is a model we've had broad agreement on, but now it's been working for a long time, and then we can start to see if it reaches the goals we had. Thus, government grants are distributed both in advance and after the academic year, in line with the ongoing production of credits. It is precisely this study score production that the Swedish Research Association has surveyed in the report it was referred to in the inter-pellation text. The Research Association's report shows that there are far more study credits produced by state institutions, universities and colleges than the basic appropriations required. In other words, as a nation, we get a lot more money than what we put into our knowledge sector. Twenty-five pst. the study credits have actually been produced without income other than the profit-based payout intended to cover 40 pst. of the fixed costs. What happens is that institutions overbook too many students, and there are too many credits produced in relation to the number of places of study funded under strategic allocation — or basis. The revenue of the State university and higher education sector from the results-based census, RBU, totals for 2009 to 1.1 billion. kr. If these study credits were to be fully funded according to the cost estimates for study places, the institutions would have had a strategic allocation of 1.7 billion. In addition, kr. It goes without saying that this gap often puts the institutions in a difficult situation. So it's seas that institutions are responsible for this overproduction. However, institutions have also cut off significant growth both for the first time in the number of students, from 164,000 in 2002 to 180 500 in 2010, and have discontinued in the production of credits: in 2009, 900,000 more study credits were awarded than in 2002, corresponding to 15 000 full-time places. The report points out that given the emphasis of the Quality Reform on quality and closer follow-up of each student, such apparent productivity growth on marginal incomes has led to more time spent on teaching, i.e. provide time for R & D, which can also lead to a lack of R & D activity, which leads to poorer quality of teaching. When we talk about the institutional space, this is what might be the most urgent thing in the future. The action space selection concluded at this point that: «Accommodation credits beyond the target will in the long term reduce the quality of the study, deplete the professional environment and reduce the institutional space for action.» [[...]] It's a quote for thought. After I delivered this interpolation text, I have received a number of input from the different institutions. Oslo reports that in some disciplines and institutions, there are a large number of study places on the margins — i.e. study places without basic funding. At UiO, this has led to problems relating to ensuring a good quality of study, especially in two faculties, namely the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Social Sciences, where we are now cutting into the recording framework. Of course, it affects students, especially all those who are now going to line up in the future. My challenges to the Council of State are as follows: what universities have done, and what state council Aasland should really be very happy about, is that they have taken in more students than they get paid for. Universities have thus pressured their budgets to do a better job than the Ministry's mission. A natural consequence would thus be to increase the allocation of the number of places of study, and not least to ensure funding for places of study that are currently established but are not fully funded. In the 2011 alternative budget of the Left, we added 2,000 additional places of study, as well as increasing funding — basic appropriations — to the institutions. Then I was met with a line from the government parties about whether the institutions are going to be able to accept so many places of study, when we know that they really have a lot more than what they're given. The main problem is that institutions do not have to be placed in a situation where quality is being reduced. The main challenge is that we need to seize the opportunity that the younger wave actually gives us, while at the same time ensuring good study quality. In order to do that, we actually have to have a stepping-up plan, which we've suggested several times in this room. Why doesn't the Council of State not want such a stepping-up plan to meet with academic staff the young people who will soon enter our universities and colleges? Is there an overall plan from the Ministry on these issues? How do we ensure quality, how do we build knowledge institutions that meet those young people who hunger for knowledge, and hunger for further building our knowledge nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e908	The representative, Skei Grande, shows in his interview with the funding of education services at state universities and higher education institutions, and highlights the relationship between the number of places of study and the number of credits awarded. The representative also refers to a report from the Swedish Research Association on what they refer to as marginal study places, as well as conclusions from the Action Space Committee. I would like to make it clear that the Research Association's report is not entirely in line with other reports, so that it is at the expense of the Research Association, but we are taking the debate anyway. Let me start by stressing that the government sees the educational wave as an opportunity, of course, but at the same time as a common challenge for political Norway and for universities and colleges. Large increases in student populations require good preparation and coordination, so that the overall needs of society are met, and so that the sector can provide high-quality research-based education. At the same time, this is an opportunity to meet society’s needs for skills and labour in the coming years, which is why, as I said, is an opportunity. The government wants to provide universities and colleges with framework conditions that enable them to meet the increase in the number of students, without jeopardising the quality of education and research. Therefore, from 2006 to today, we have increased the annual recording framework by almost 7,000 places. Fully expanded with several coals, this means that the government will set up more than 19 000 study places in the ten-year period 2006–2016. This is quite consistent with the forecasts we have for the number of students, cf. the question that Skei Grande also asked me. Institutions will receive over 2 billion in this period. kr to finance these places of study. This is the biggest economic promise for universities and colleges in many years. Skei Grande is based on some premises about the funding of universities and colleges that I do not share, and that do not correspond to the conditions that Stortinget has set for the sector. This is particularly related to changes resulting from the quality reform. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the representative that the quality reform in higher education was both a study reform and a governance reform. Common legislation was introduced for the sector, net budgeting and new funding system. The objectives were higher quality in education and research, but also greater responsibility for each institution. Universities and higher education, through the reforms, increased autonomy and space for action in order to optimise their activities in order to achieve these objectives. There was a shift from financing per activity per institution to framework financing and performance-based exclusion to increase the flexibility of the sector. Institutions are free to set up study facilities and convert capacity in line with the demand of students and society. In line with this governance model, we do not have price financing for study places in Norway and, with the exception of activity requirements for a few, selected educations, the Ministry of Knowledge does not operate with a number of candidates each institution should train. Similarly, the Ministry of Knowledge does not indicate the proportion of each institution’s funding to each of the three main tasks of education, research and dissemination, but does leave it up to the institutions’ board to assess how best to achieve the objectives of the size of the sector as a whole. We all know that the implementation of the quality reform was demanding. The sector was therefore added 1.4 billion at the time of introduction. kr in permanent increase in the budget. This was in line with what the sector itself thought the reform would cost, and is what should go to new forms of teaching and closer follow-up of the students. In the system of funding for universities and higher education, components are, on average, about 30 p.m., of the annual appropriations made depending on the results obtained in education and research. Training incentives ensure that institutions pay attention to throughput and quality in the study provision provided. Thus, funding for study places has been set up in such a way that there is an incentive to increase the number of study credits and thus throughflows. The institutions get financial statements that the students are on exams, and thus score their study credits. This is a strong incentive for good quality in student provision. The educational incentive element of the funding system has an open framework. This contributes to conversion and flexibility. Universities and higher education institutions can develop study facilities and offer places of study within their own financial framework without the Stortinge grant of funding for new places. They get the equivalent of 40 pst. of the category rate when the students make their study credits. Over the period 2003-2011, this has given institutions more than 850 million. In addition to the full funding of the Quality Reform, this has been added to the disbursement of the educational incentive. The majority of this census came at the beginning of the period following the introduction of the reform, in parallel with a reduction in the number of students in the sector, where each student averaged several points of study. The quality reform thus showed that it was possible to significantly increase throughput. One example, as the representative Skei Grande should know well, is the University of Oslo, where the number of students was greatly reduced in the years after 2002. The university today has several thousand, about 4,500, fewer students than at the introduction. The quality reform and the introduction of a new degree structure led to a clean-up of the student population and introduced clearer progress requirements. In parallel with this, they have had an increase in funding as a result of an increase in credits per student. This is very positive and shows that the institution took the quality reform seriously. Other institutions did not reduce the number of students, as the University of Oslo did. Some institutions assessed it so that they had the capacity to increase the number of students, and have been counted out in the incentives for it. This has been, in line with the governance reform of the Quality Reform, assessments by the boards of directors in line with the authority they have. I would also like to remind you that we are now at a time when study places are being set up to meet precisely the youth wave or the educational wave, stressing to the institutions that these are being used to increase activity in line with Storting's expectations. This means that the Ministry of Knowledge, during a period when the government is providing new places of study, will follow up on institutions using them to offer more students an offer to take up higher education. That's why it's very important for us to have the interaction we have between the Ministry of Knowledge and the individual universities and colleges. It is very important for the government to ensure quality in higher education. We are working with our institutions to ensure high quality in a period of high growth in the number of students. That's why we set up 19 000 new places of study, which is why we rate over 2 billion. This is why we are continuing a funding system with an incentive for the institutions to contribute to the implementation of the students. Then it will be possible for all those who are hungry for knowledge – as the representative Skei Grande mentioned, and I fully agree with her – to get study opportunities at not only our largest universities, but also at our other universities and colleges. Here we have actually arranged for it to be a good follow-up and a good funding for more students, but we are constantly dependent on good cooperation with our educational institutions. I have not concealed that I am very pleased with the cooperation and the positive will that, in particular, the largest universities have shown to follow up the proposals and offers we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e944	Let me start by saying that, of course, the quality reform was very good. It was a good idea that this room introduced the Quality Reform, if there was a decrease in the number of students at the University of Oslo. For us who were students at the University of Oslo before the Quality Reform, it was getting a student certificate was more of a everyday thing you always did, because then you were a student and you could go to some lectures, and if you did, you could always take some study credits too. There was a slightly different attitude to that at our universities, especially at the University of Oslo. Now it's important that representatives of big business don't learn anything, so there's no danger that we're going to score any points of study, because it'll be a threat to democracy to have politicians who learn some of them over the time they're sitting here. – It was just a little comment about the presidency, which might be a bit of a struggle for it! So I have to say I'm a little surprised especially at the beginning of the answer to the council. Here the Swedish Research Association has produced a report that I believe is an important warning. But the ministry is always right in all numbers, there's no one else but the ministry's numbers that can be right. I think it is commendable that the Swedish Research Association has produced this report, because it focuses on something very important. The important thing, which is my concern, and which is a concern I feel I can't share with the Council of State, because she expresses no concern in this area, is that after the Quality Reform we have got a lot of marginally marginalized study places, and that it can over time help undermine the quality of our education. We also see that meeting a student wave is not something you can do overnight. You actually have to build up professional staff. Since we're going to have research-based education, professional staff must be built up before the students get on the stairs, because good researchers and good research agents are not something you can pick up from the street, it's actually something you have to bet on over time to have in place. Then I very much agree with the Council when she says that universities have power over this sea. But after the autumn allocations, I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Council of State really believes that universities should have the power of navigation. Is it such that universities can be allowed to lay down the marginally marginalized study places, or is it such that the Council of State actually instructs through its letters of assignment to maintain them? Because that's what the debate is here, if they're going to have the opportunity to say that we're going to be in favour of the quality of our universities, of our educational institutions. Or is it that the Council of State is going to decide how many are going to be printed through the mills, regardless of whether the institutions also say that the quality is not going to be good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e953	I would like to make it clear that there is actually nothing called to bring up students ‘on the margin’ or to have study places ‘on the margin’. It's an expression that doesn't match, either with the funding system or with the reality I've described in my first post. Here it is free for every university and every university to record as many students as they like, and it is free for the governments and the management of each university to change the offer, where appropriate to make offers. It's not the Council of State's responsibility. The responsibility of the Council of States is to ensure that we have a predictable funding system, and of course I have a plan for how to meet both the educational wave and the knowledge needs that are in the future. It may almost seem like the Left that it is the State that has to come in and take more responsibility, rather than the institutions that have to decide for themselves. I don't know – we probably both agree – that the institutions must have their autonomy. But the way I interpret it, and the way it is in the funding system, it's not about this expression 'on the margin', because it's the universities themselves who make that decision and the chance that the students carry out, and that they get that statement. But what I demand, and what I have a good dialogue with both the University Council and the universities about, is that when the Stortinget grants money to new places of study, there should also be more students. It is not a very good signal when you give money to new places of study, and you can see that it is not planned to bring up new students. Here we have had good clarifications. It was our two largest institutions in particular, and now we agree on how the concepts should be interpreted, that a place of study is not necessarily the same as a student, and that then one has the freedom to take up, but at the same time, when the state comes up with a clear plan and notification that new places of study should be set up, it should also be clear that more students will be admitted. Here we now agree – I am very happy to say so – with the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen on both how to interpret it and how to practice it. Then I am very pleased that we have an agreed consensus on the freedom they have, because it is important to me that they have it, while my responsibility is to have my plan and the government's plan for how to meet the educational wave with new opportunities for more students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e962	I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for putting the students' situation and the institutions' room for action on the agenda. I feel that this is an interpellation that makes the dilemmas related to finding the right balance between state governance of our higher education institutions, and ensuring them space of action and confidence in doing their own priorities. I would like to start by commending the Council of State for setting up the Working Party that assessed the action rooms of the higher education sector and shared its assessments last February. I feel that the Council of State initiative took the consequence that the institutions have gained more autonomy and the ability to set up their activities in order to achieve their objectives. The detailed management of the sector has been abandoned in the past, and I feel that the sector itself has greatly appreciated it. Institutions are free to set up study facilities and convert capacity in line with the demand of students and society. And we also see that this is an opportunity that they've taken advantage of. In some areas, this freedom of institutions has produced very good and positive results, such as: in the case of cooperation, division of labour and concentration, where many institutions have initiated processes which have an impact on the best possible use of resources, both economically and scientifically. But with increased freedom, there is also an increased responsibility both for their own situation and beyond their situation in order to respond to society's needs. Then it is perfectly legitimate to discuss whether the sector should be managed more from the political point of view, both in terms of the number of students and the production of credits. I feel at least that the representative Skei Grande opens this discussion by challenging the Council of State in the way that the representative does. I have a great deal of understanding for those who thought that institutions that manage so much of the community's resources, and which lay such an important part of the foundation for us as a knowledge nation, can also be governed and held accountable to the present representatives of the community as the country's political leadership. However, I note that the sector itself, so far, does not call for stronger institutional governance, nor for the creation of study places. There's a signal you don't necessarily have to agree with, but at least it's okay to take it further in the discussion, anyway. We are facing a significant increase in the number of students at our higher education institutions. It is then important that increased educational capacity does not go at the expense of professional quality. This means that there is a need for sufficient funding from the State to ensure the quality of the studies. We have taken this into account by increasing funding for institutions and providing more new places of study — step by step — every year in recent years. I assume that the Council of State will continue to have good contact with the institutions and the NSO about their needs in the time we go into. The student wave is not a tsunami to wash over the institutions, but it is a surf wave that we as a knowledge nation can surf on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e981	I hope the presidency, in the light of what Trine Skei Grande talked about, appreciates that I took my education – well, like the representative Skei Grande – before I started at Stortinget. It's possible that that ghost gets a little bit too internal to excite merriment outside this hall. The representative, Skei Grande, argues that it's not just funding, but the system that's wrong. I want to say that I believe what was done in this room in its time, introduced the Quality Reform, was right, that the system probably needs to be cleaned up, but that it is primarily the financing of the annual follow-up to the Quality Reform that is the problem. The government is constantly saying that it has met the youth wave to provide more places to study. Then you also say that students on the marginal -- or whatever you choose to call it -- are the responsibility of the institutions. It's not a question of saying that it's the responsibility of the institutions that you have a lot of students you don't have funding for, and that you've met the student wave. You could say either one or the other – both positions will be equally legitimate: universities have taken in too many students, there should have been several thousand additional students in line to enter higher education, or you could say that you haven't funded enough places to study. You have to pick one of these approaches, not both at once. It's not fair. In terms of agreeing with UiB and UiO: When you sit on the money bag, by yourself, you get a relatively good negotiation card. In this context, if you call it ‘agree’, or if you call it ‘frightened in place’, there may be reasonable synonyms. But I have noticed that it has stopped in the sector with regard to that particular debate. The Action Space Committee has pointed out that today’s scheme has created some challenges. I'd like to draw out one of my chauffeurs. It is that in each category of funding there is a relatively large gap between the real costs of good study quality, while revenue in the category is the same internally. This means that new places of study are largely placed in disciplines that have a low cost compared to fixed incomes. This, in turn, leads to the loss of technology. There's an article on the side of what the interpellant wants to discuss, but this is clearly a consequence of the difficult economic situation facing universities and colleges. I'll try to be a little bit system critical too. Then I would like to say that it is good that the post office for financing extra credits is open, and that produced credits lead to a given amount extra to universities and colleges. That makes sense. But then it is that results-based funding of research is a closed item. We are also discussing this in the context of the budget. Here, I believe that one of the strongest systemic weaknesses of the Quality Reform needs to be identified, namely that there is no more money to be given, but that the result-based research funding is simply a redistribution of funds. With regard to the study credits, the more students you get through, the less and less money you get for each publication that comes, the more you get for the students, the less and less the research actually gets for every publication that comes, because you have successfully achieved the strategy you used in time for the Quality Reform. If we were to be system-critical, I would say that the whole element of ‘historical appropriations’ – that is, because you got money in the past, you should also get money next year – is not running politics, it’s the absence of politics. We know that this affects some colleges very much stronger than others. And I know that the University of Southern Trøndelag is very happy that the Council of State always says it's the most effective college in Norway – but that's because it gets a lot less money per student than the other colleges do. That is why, one day, I think we too need to have a discussion about whether it is useful to continue the concept of ‘historical appropriations’ as a political instrument for the financing of higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e998	Firstly, I agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that the ideal of lifelong learning or adult qualification should also include staggering representatives, sails if it might interfere with the ideals of the People's Government, that it should be characterized by the fact that the doctors govern the learners. The SV country meeting has made a very good statement about higher education and research, where we say a little bit the same as the interpellant, that we have now reached a point where we should be able to reduce incentives to some extent. However, I will not follow that statement directly and that point, but I will go over to the interesting quality debate. So this could be a budget debate, and then it could be a system or model debate. To take the budget debate first: we've had it many times before in this room, and we're going to have it further in the future as well. More than ever, there are very many of us who believe that there should ideally be more over the government budgets in the future. We shall also put forward these arguments in future budgetary debates. But over to the system. It is a problem of the quality of the debate here that we do not have a system in which we are able to assess quality well enough, neither in terms of education nor research. On the research side, we have received the Fagerberg Committee, which was to make a contribution to the debate. Personally, I do not think it is a contribution that leads us a bit further in the quality debate. The committee is still leaning heavily on the fact that we can measure the quality of research on publishing and quoting. I think we're going to discuss the quality of research, we have to get a little further than that. But then more to education, which is the starting point here. It is also a problem, especially if you think that there has been a quality decrease in education, that this has not been documented in any good way. On the contrary, we see that, among other things, The Council of State indicated that the flow rate is increasing. We don't see that there's any decline in the grades or the quality of the students coming out, so in that sense there's no quality crisis in this sector. Not least, people on the outside of us in this education/research segment, to which we all belong in this room, will be able to claim something like this, and in a way, we cannot disprove it. So honor be all the institutions, absolutely including the students' seas, that have now put this with quality on the agenda, and that are now trying to process or develop this debate, so that we can really get some better basis to discuss what quality is today, and not least what kind of quality development it is that is going on. So a little bit to this that goes into the division of responsibilities, in this case between the ministry and the institutions. I also belong to those who absolutely do not want to return to a regime that I sailed into when I started at Lillehammer University in the mid-1980s, where one had to sort of crawl and search in every way to get a student position. I think it is absolutely right that the institution should have the freedom – and maritime freedom under responsibility – to bring up those students that the institution believes it is right to raise. What strikes me when I'm out on these institutions is that after one has spent a few minutes on the economic challenges, which on the one hand it's easy for me to join, the same institutions just start to boast of high search, and that they are increasingly able to take more students into the institution. This is also – to say – the maritime segment, the educational institutions sea, a little double, obviously, on this. They are glad that the number of students is increasing, while sending some concern messages to the granting authority that they are evenly overfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1013	I just have a few brief comments. I want to underline what the interpellant is saying, that there are some people who have solved something for society by all the extra students. It is clear that the option would have been terribly bad for many of them. I then understand in a way that it feels unfair when the funding does not follow the way they wish. So a little comment on it with quality, which Aksel Hagen was now in the middle of it. There is very clear feedback from the student organisation that there is one quality that is hit when the sector now has less money: that they get involved in research, that research participation is part of the everyday life of universities, which one wants to be. But what's happening, because there are growing groups and more to deal with, is that there's going to be more group education and larger collections. It's a minus of quality, which doesn't necessarily give an impact on grades and final results, but which is an important experience to bring with it. So the student organisation has repeatedly pointed out that, so I just wanted to mention that in the debate here. Then I'm very happy that the Council of State determines that she has a plan, because we've called for it several times. I wish the Council of State would involve Stortinget in that plan, so that we also felt that now we have a plan, now we're on the right path, we're going to make this happen together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1024	Governments said about the institutions that they think produce too many on the margin, that we've agreed. Then I went in and picked up the board decision from Bergen when they received the letter of assignment from the Council of State. The Governing Council was as follows: ‘1. The Management Board takes note of the letter of allocation. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Management Board takes note that the university has less room for action to assess the student figure in relation to the funding base.’ That's how it was perceived from the institutions. I am very much in favour of quality reform, I am very much in favour of the power of the institutions, I am very much in favour of them being able to control their admissions, and that they are maritime institutions. I'm probably a little bit smaller for -- actually -- that we're going to have a government council to instruct some of our institutions to agree when they think they're not getting enough quality because they have too many of the marginal study places. And that's probably a little bit of the core of the disagreement in this room. The model is in and out nice, but if you take away the opportunity of the institutions of the sea to assess the quality, I think we can lose a lot in relation to the student wave we're facing. So the council says, well, she has a plan. She has to invite us into this plan, because we probably don't feel that we're part of a plan. The times we have proposed that it should be a plan of construction, it has been voted down in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1038	Of course, it is not that the Council of State has instructed two institutions as independent and large as the universities of Oslo and Bergen. What we've agreed on is how to count and not count. There was a blur in the relationship between the number of places of study and the number of students. I think the Stortinget will agree with me that when Stortinget grants funds to new places of study – fully funded such – the Stortinget does not have any responsibility for the number of students that the institutions themselves have raised in advance and that have nothing to do with the new places of study. It must be expected that there will be more room for manoeuvre when the Stortinget scientifically deals with and allocates funds to several places of study. That's where the confusion lay. Of course, it is up to each institution to assess it on its own initiative, but there is no instruction at all. Of course it doesn't. I think Tord Lien had an interesting recording here. I believe that the discussion on the results-based redistribution of research may come up again in the context of the handling of the Fagerberg Committee's report, which we are going to be part of the new research report coming to Stortinget in 2013. There are a number of questions of that nature raised. It is clear that there are shared opinions about the transparency and the inadequacy of those parts of the funding system. But I take a very distance from Tord Lien's observation that it has to be either–or. You can meet the educational wave, for example. with new places of study – it is my plan to do so, and the Stortinget has seen that I have done so and allocated money to new places of study. But at the same time, you can't say to the institutions that they won't be able to decide for themselves when it comes to taking up students. They know that they take a chance by recording students who are not necessarily funded by new places of study. It's part of what they're allowed to do – which is their autonomy. However, in the case of new places of study, it is full funding. It would have been an interesting form of autonomy on the part of institutions if, in addition to taking up what they get from new places of study, universities were to pick up more and then come and ask the state to finance it. But there's a big difference in our places of study. The smaller universities and colleges are very positive about bringing up more students. I'm aware of one thing, and it might be especially true of the three colleges we have in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim, and that is that it becomes a matter of matter and physical concern in relation to the number of students. I'm very aware of that. We have granted money for new buildings both in Bergen and in Oslo. We hope to make it when it comes to Trondheim. It will be an important matter for me in budgetary terms, but it is a challenge we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1048	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1062	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1071	An overall committee is concerned with the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen and all those who live or engage in business in Norway. This is underlined in the comments on the matter. In this context, the majority also do not wish to comment on individual cases for legal proceedings. I would like to remind you here that we have a administration in Norway that is three-thirds, with the Stortinget as the legislative assembly. There is therefore a very different body from the Stortingen to bring an action for a judgment in cases pending before the Court of Justice. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus that a combination of capable and forward-looking economic operators and responsible, clear and rigorous management focusing on environmental sustainability has contributed to Norway’s appearance today as the world’s leading maritime nation. I refer you to the letter sent to the nutrition committee by the Council of State, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, on 12 April of this year. In this letter, the Council of State gives detailed feedback on a number of ongoing processes that are in progress to ensure the legal certainty of fishermen and that the Stortinget will be presented with all legislative proposals. In this context, the majority also does not consider that it is possible to support the wish of the proposers for a separate review of legal certainty for fishermen. The Committee is committed to facilitating a system of penalties for infringements of fisheries law which are both effective and fair and which contribute to the adaptation of the response to the seriousness of the infringement. This means that authorities can use more reaction types than punishment. In this respect, I point out that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department has, at the deadline of 1 May 2011, had a proposal for a regulation on the charge of crime and periodic penalty payments in the event of infringements of the Sea Resource Act. The Regulation shall include, inter alia, the following: facilitate administration to impose a criminal charge as an alternative to a more burdensome criminal prosecution. The aim is to reduce the use of penalties in the event of minor infringements of the Sea Resource Act. An overall committee points out that the landing obligation, which is one of the main principles of Norwegian fisheries management, involves bringing all catches to land. This also includes catches which for various reasons are to be considered illegal and it would be unreasonable for the fisherman to be left with the income from such illegal catches. In order to ensure that illegal catches are also landed, the fisherman may in many cases retain 20 pst. the catch value as compensation for the landing costs when administrative withdrawal is carried out. In the consultation note of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs of 8 May 2009 on the post-control of the Act of Participation, including: The law’s criminal law was subject to review, the Ministry shows that there are several points of contact between the Sea Resource Act and the Participant Act, and that it is therefore natural to review the criminal law of the Participant Act. In the same note, the Ministry pointed out that it was desirable to review criminal law in the light of the general nature of the new criminal law, which has already been adopted but has not yet entered into force. This applies in particular to the provisions of the Act of Participation, Trials and Requirements for Subjective Indebtedness. Furthermore, I would like to point out that a group of parties has been set up, including: shall carry out a legal review of the raw fish law, including the criminal provisions of the law. In view of this, the majority of the Committee considers that no separate review of the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen is currently necessary and that the proposal is therefore annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1099	Norway has a lot to be proud of. One of the things is Norwegian business, where seafood is an important and good part. Seafood is exported around the world, and the export value for 2010 was nearly 54 billion. kr. This means that many people have their profession here, and it also makes sure that the many people who have ringing effects from this industry also have many good days. For the districts – which would otherwise have had problems with unemployment etc. – makes this their place in the districts. The fact that Norway has skilled and forward-looking nutritionists, as well as a clear and strict management, makes Norway the world’s leading maritime nation. The legal security of Norwegian fishermen is important and shall be fair and understandable. Thus, reactions — if necessary — shall also be appropriate to the severity. That is why this representative proposal was promoted, as I understand it. It may seem strange that, for example, minor exceedances of the minimum measure may result in the withdrawal of the entire catch. Therefore, the seriousness of the infringement needs to be improved, e.g.: related to volume, catch value and level of guilt, and the amount of the penalty. Therefore, there is a need for a review of the law, etc. and an overall approach to the matter. I would like to promote the proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1112	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1115	There are several reasons why the Right supports this proposal in Stortinget. As many have recorded, the Fisherman’s magazine has had a number of headlines in recent months asking questions about the legal certainty of these nutritionists. The reporting has focused on everything from suspicion of over-fishing to requirements for a new electronic reporting system or what may appear to be unreasonable requirements for accurate catch estimates. There are examples of actors being fined for breaches of resource reporting legislation. Both in appeal and in judgment it is made clear that this has not been done for the purpose of winning, but must be seen as an accident at work. Nevertheless, criminal evaluation does not take into account. There are several examples of the fact that the incorporation of cod into quantities considered by most to be de minimis against the total catch, at least set against the fact that fishermen can only estimate quantities at sea, is penalised by the withdrawal of catch values at a level that seems very unreasonable to everyone. We have had interviews with fishermen who express great dismay at what they think has become a more difficult and difficult working day. So until the predictable attack position comes along on our proposal. The proposal to legalise crime is not of the right's opinion. We have noticed that the Council of State in today's Evening Post and Today's Business warns that it is now to be pointed out that fraud and fraud with fishing rights are nothing but financial crime and must be severely reduced. In the Right, the Council of State has full support in this work. Therefore, we believe that it is important to take seriously the problems we describe in our proposal. It is utopian to believe that there can be respect for resource control and law unless the control system and the law enforcement have legitimacy among industry actors. It is probably also along these lines that I perceive the Council of State's play in the media today – a clarification that fraud and cheating are financial crime. This is important for all actors in the industry. If you ignore it, you create an advantage for the criminals that the industry or Norway cannot be acquainted with. If you look at this and try to see it in a slightly wider perspective, it is also in your opinion that legal certainty is a factor that needs to be put in place if Norway is to succeed in its ambition to influence the EU fisheries policy. We would like to point out good stock goals, we could refer to ecological sustainability, and we could refer to the fantastic Norwegian management model. However, if Norwegian practices from EU fishermen are perceived to be contrary to established legal principles, I think EU politicians have problems changing their fisheries policy. And there is no disagreement in Norway that the need for change in the EU is great. It is therefore the case that the Council of State, in its reply to the Committee, concerns fragments of this issue, but is not willing to follow the proposal of the Right for an overall review. In principle, this is about seeing the relationship between the seriousness of the infringement and the level of the penalties. It is about having fishermen's everyday lives in the back of their heads when designing resource control legislation. It is about having so much knowledge of the work on board that the authorities are able to manage the law without running a farm. In several fields, the Council of State describes issues Rightly warned against when the new Maritime Resource Act was debated in 2008. You should be able to look at that now. The example of the department, which relates the problems back to the new penal code of 20 May 2005, also clearly shows that a thorough review is needed here, not a fragmented fire extinguisher.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1143	In the fishing industry, we are talking about great values. Fish are our second most important export industry — by oil and gas. The value of fish exports today is, as we have heard, above 50 billion. kr. One third of these fish exports are wild fish – a total of 17 billion. kr. So there are great values, and that's why the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring the best possible framework conditions for the fishing industry. These framework conditions could have been better, but there is no excuse for committing illegalities. I would also like to refer, as the representative Bakke-Jensen, to a statement in today's evening post, referring to a report on illegal fishing. The report claims that ‘the sea and land bad news are organised crime’. But an important signal – I think – from this pulpit is that it must not form the impression that all Norwegian fishermen are criminals. In March of this year, the Directorate of Fisheries, in cooperation with the Skattenetaten, the Statens vägvesen, the Food Authority and the Customs Authority, carried out an action to control the export and sale of unregistered fish. There were no traces of unregistered fish. The Directorate of Fisheries was very satisfied with the results of the survey. ‘This may indicate a low level of unregistered fish’, says regional director Janne Andersen in the region of Nordland. This check showed that the extent of illegal fishing is not as large as many believe. Nevertheless, we know that there are illegal fishing, and that there is a problem many places. This must not lead to the criminalisation of an entire industry. The fishermen work very hard with little profit. 10 000 active fishermen spend 23 million hours working — that is far more than usual. It is therefore necessary to recognise the great effort of fishermen and not to criminalise them. The best way to prevent crime and suspicion is good control practices. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to strengthen these arrangements. However, the checks and penalties must not be carried out in a way that is perceived as unforeseeable and unfair to those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1156	The proposers are concerned with the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen. Of course I am. Legal security is a matter that the Government takes seriously. As the Committee, the government is committed to the legal certainty of all those who live or engage in business in Norway. Of course, this also applies to fishermen. The proposers have included individual cases in the document. I ask for an understanding that I will neither comment nor comment on such individual matters from the pulpit. However, I would still like to take the opportunity to share some general reflections on the matter. As several of the representatives have said here, the Norwegian seafood industry is a success story in Norwegian business. But success has not come of itself. The industry consists of capable and forward-looking operators working within a framework to ensure clear management, focusing on environmental sustainability. I can only say that I fully agree with Andersen Eide, the representative, that most fishermen are honest, hardworking people. But we manage large and valuable resources that will provide employment and value creation today, tomorrow and forever. We also record that consumers are concerned with environmental sustainability when making their choices. We all, including the industry itself, have a responsibility to offer products that meet consumers' requirements, even in this way. Sustainable governance does not come of itself. It not only requires us to set the right quotas, rules on mesh size and minimum dimensions, catch log and a number of other things, it also requires these rules to be complied with. And it requires that violations be settled. The premise that today, without any hesitation, we can claim that we have a responsible and good resource management is that we are monitoring compliance with the fisheries legislation. Fishermen pursue their occupation by harvesting free of charge from resources belonging to the community of Norway. There may be a great deal of profit to be gained if the harvest is in breach of the legislation. It is therefore important that the responses to crime have a form and a level that has a preventative effect — it is not worth breaking the rules. Then I am committed to facilitating a system for infringements of the law that is both effective and fair, and that helps to adapt the response to the severity of the infringement. This means that authorities may use more reaction types than punishment. In this context, I can mention the system of administrative withdrawal. Proposals address the question of whether to take into account blame when setting the amount of the withdrawal. That question was assessed in connection with the adoption of the Sea Resource Act, and I believe that the answer to that question should still be no. Administrative detention is not punishment. The purpose is not to impose an evil on any person, but that the person who has taken or taken illegal fishing must give up the benefits that that catch would bring. It would be unreasonable for individual practitioners to be left with the proceeds of illegal fishing, regardless of whether they are guilty of the infringement or of a natural accident. I also think that such a system could send crazy signals to all the nutritionists who stick to the legislation every day. It must be allowed to say that it is a little difficult to understand what the proposers are aiming for when they ask for a review of the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen. As I pointed out in my letter to the Committee, it is not that disagreement about a rule is necessarily a matter of legal certainty. I have probably also read most of the things both in the Fisherman's magazine and elsewhere about it. But my focus is to work on the material questions, and we do. As I explained in my letter to the Business Committee on 12 April of this year, the Ministry is now working on post-control controls and amendments to the main laws governing the fishing industry: the Sea Resource Act, the Participation Act and the Raw Fish Act. Of course, it will be submitted to all legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1182	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1185	I would like to read out the last thing that the Council of State writes in its letter: ‘As I have explained above, the Ministry on a broad front controls and amends the main laws regulating the fishing industry. The size will be submitted to all legislative amendments, and I therefore consider that at this stage there is no need for a separate review of legal certainty for Norwegian fishermen.» Then my question becomes to the Council of State: why doesn't the Council of State have a review that the Storting and all the parties of the Storting can be part of? After all, this is Norway's second largest industry, and then all parties should be allowed to participate, as it should in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1196	As I wrote in my letter, and as I said in my post, we work with a post-control of the laws and regulations that follow the different laws, where we normally, when a law has had a period of working time, go through and see if things work as planned. That's a normal way of working, and we're of course coming to the legislative assembly with any proposals for changes related to the laws that have had a broad review and of course have been passed in this house. I feel that and see it as a normal way to carry out post-control of the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1201	The representative Irene Lange Nordahl gave us a review of the distribution of power in his article. It's also called the fourth state power. Governments have been concerned with the reputation of the marine food industry both domestically and abroad. When you get a number of reports, articles, a series of headlines where you don't have to be a fisherman to read that there are at least doubts about legal certainty here, does the Council of State see it as a problem for the reputation of the marine food industry that there is at least doubt in the public debate about the legal security of fishermen's nutritionists?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1206	An industry reputation is, of course, the industry itself that has the greatest responsibility for becoming as good as possible. Then, of course, as politicians, we need to facilitate such that it is possible, as far as the law and regulations and rules are concerned, to inform ourselves in such a way that one does not get into a bad situation. Of course, I cannot go in and debate individual matters, but I do know some of the individual matters. The fact that there is so much debate about them is that the amount of the withdrawal amounts is independent of whether or not the fisherman is guilty of a crime. Values are large on some catches. It's not a punishment, but it's important that someone then pull in values so that at least one can't earn, either on purpose or not on purpose, to break the code. Again, the industry is primarily responsible for the reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1213	I'm still a little busy with that reputation. It is also the case that politicians should have it in mind that they should at least facilitate the construction of reputation to the point of discovering things where they see that laws and regulations are in the way of a good reputation, and perhaps they should be able to look at it. I also understand that you don't want to discuss individual matters here, but some of the things that have initially worn the mark of what is called ‘bond imprisonment’. It is such that there are very small deviations from the law that have given a disproportionate amount of value. There are examples of 300 kilos of cod in a catch of over 1.1 million. kr has caused the entire catch to be withdrawn. If we're going to follow the logic of the Council of States, that withdrawal is not a punishment, are there limits to how much value a withdrawal has regardless of the extent of the offence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1220	On the question of whether there are limits to the size of a catch: yes, it is in principle the boat and it has access at any time to have in any case one throw. It is preferable in the pelagic fisheries to get this kind of big catch. Then it's a crime if it's illegal by-catch. If that's the case, the rules are clear, then it has to be revoked. Everything else would have been unreasonable. But the problem is, of course, as I say, that the amounts are going to be so large, and that's what kind of looks like for us politicians and ordinary people, who think this sounds awfully unreasonable. Then you have to think about how many catches like that you have during the year. So that's not a withdrawal limit. The values of illegal catches shall be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1225	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1230	I feel the need for just a little clarification because the minister must have misunderstood what I said in my post, when she pointed out that I believe the fishermen are criminals and dishonest. That's not what I meant, because it was the very opposite of what I wanted to convey. I referred to the report in the evening post, which indicated that it may be a bit of a joke, but I was concerned that here one should not criminalize an entire industry, and I pointed out that they were both hardworking and honest in their work. I just needed to say that since it was referred from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1235	Then we have to re-explain a misunderstanding, because on the contrary, I fully agreed with Andersen Eide that most fishermen are honest, hardworking people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1243	Then most of the misunderstandings were to be resolved. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1253	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1261	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1 by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to amend laws and regulations to give both parents equal access rights.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the laws and regulations so that it becomes up to each parent to decide how they will distribute the parental leave between themselves.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that both parents’ rights to parental leave are respected in the event of a broken life.’ Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 1-3 will be listed on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1346	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1380	The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1414	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1425	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 2, 3 and 4 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1435	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen and to bring the matter before the Stortinget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-30.ana.ud2543e1535	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
