ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e43	The President notes that the Constitutional Council of State in Case No. 1 is not present in the hall, and there is a very special situation. But the government is represented in the Chamber, so that there is an opportunity to conduct the debate on case No. 1 yet, if the Storting gives its consent to it. The representative Per-Kristian Foss has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e48	I do not remember that the Stortinget has previously conducted debates in which the constitutionally responsible State Council has not been present, except where there has been a report of disease. I'd like to ask the President to deal with this with the Prime Minister, because, after I'm familiar with it, it's not disease decay that's the cause of this, but party politics has gone ahead of meeting in Stortinget. That should be stated. I don't remember Stortinget accepting this on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e55	The President agrees that there is a very special situation, and that is why the President opened the door to ask if the Stortinget still finds it convenient to deal with the matter. It has happened on a few occasions, when matters here in the Chamber have gone faster than anyone might have expected, that for some time in dealing with a matter, one has had a different state council than the constitutionally responsible one has been present, and that one has nevertheless dealt with the matter. But this is a very special situation, and I think it is quite natural that the presidency is following up the matter with the Prime Minister. Is it, however, to understand that the Storting considers it appropriate to deal with case No. 1 and that also applies to case No. 2, by the fact that the government is represented in the Chamber, but not by the Constitutional Council of State? The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e64	I just want to fully support what Per-Kristian Foss said here from the pulpit. The fact that a government council doesn't meet in Stortinget is very special. I am very uncertain whether it is right to deal with the matters that the responsible state council, Kristin Halvorsen, is responsible for, when she is not present in the Chamber, and I suggest that those matters be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e69	Then there was a proposal to postpone the two cases listed as No. 1 and No 2 on today's map. The President fully understands that. That's exactly why he stopped and asked for an assessment of it. If someone feels it is right to conclude that it is not right to deal with matters without the constitutionally responsible State Council present, the President is prepared to support that proposal. We shall then vote on the proposal by the representative of Mr Korsberg. The President will not be surprised if it becomes a unanimous conclusion. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e76	We're ready to go to voting. Then we will continue the discussion of the agenda. It is proposed that cases should be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are deferred because the Constitutional Council of State is absent from the Chamber. It is a proposal made by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg, supported by the President. There is now only an opportunity to comment on the postponement proposal itself. The first person who has asked for the floor is the representative, Martin Kolberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e85	As this case now stands, I would recommend that the representatives of the government parties vote in favour of the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e90	The Christian People's Party will also vote in favour of the proposal. In fact, I think it serves the position of honour that you now choose to listen to the minority here in the hall, and I believe that this also has something to do with the Great Government's relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e96	That's exactly what it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e99	I would advise the Right-wing Group to also vote in favour of the proposal not to raise the issue. 1 and 2 up to treatment. It does not at my previous request to the President to bring up with the Prime Minister the lack of respect for the Storting which I believe the relevant State Council in case of absence has now shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e104	As the President stated – and as many representatives now present in the Chamber – the President agreed with that assessment. And then, of course, the President will follow that request. Is there anyone else who wants to speak on this postponement proposal? - It's not. The proposal is based on case No. 1 and 2 are taken off today’s maps and taken for treatment in a later meeting. The proposal is then put to the vote. Votation: The proposal from Øyvind Korsberg was unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e129	There is no proposal for a debate. Ask someone for the floor on case No. Three? – The representative, Martin Kolberg, has asked for the floor and is given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e132	The National Audit Office’s report on the follow-up of previous administrative audits by the departments provides important information on the results of the Stortingen treatment. This year’s report deals with the follow-up of 18 administrative audits, of which 15 are closed and three are to be followed up. On a general level, it is my particular impression that the departments take the weaknesses pointed out by the Riksrevision, seriously and loyally try to improve the situation. Similarly, I assume that the departments are thoroughly involved in the opinions of the Stortinge in the handling of the Riksrevision reports. Even if one thing is finished, not everything is necessarily hurt well. Of the 15 cases closed, there are up to a number of the Riksrevisions that will follow up, including through announced new studies. This applies to the sustainable use of reindeer resources, where the National Audit Office considers that the necessary framework conditions for sustainable reindeer management in Finnmark are still not established. The follow-up and action work of the Labour and Welfare Act for priority jobseeker groups is also current for a new study, where the National Audit Office will look at the impact of the new measures and organisational changes that have been implemented. Furthermore, in several cases, the Riksrevision will consider new studies in the light of the annual risk assessments, including: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's work on regulatory simplification and the reduction of the burden on business form. Three issues will be followed up in the ongoing review. It concerns the length of proceedings in debt matters, the development of the setting of excise duties in the customs and tax havens and the development of the collection of taxes and the local control of employers. The National Audit Board also chooses to follow up on three issues — especially — further. This concerns the administration by the State of Labour and Welfare of what is called the car support scheme, the National Audit Office’s study of sustainable land planning and land disposal and the management of the cash support scheme. So the three things are followed up. With regard to the car-supplier scheme, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs pointed out in the examination of Document No. 3:6 for 2006-2007 on several weaknesses of the scheme that should be amended, including: that it was too long after the decision was taken, until the car was actually delivered, that there was a serious failure in following up the users and not least that the non-discrimination of the users had to be ensured. In the study now carried out by the Riksrevision, the Committee noted that a number of measures have been planned and partly implemented in the field of motor vehicle support. Our assessment is that the reorganisation that leads to decision-making and dissemination in five car centres makes sense if it leads to precisely what the Committee has previously requested, shorter treatment periods, better quality of treatment and increased equal treatment. Like the National Audit Office, we are positive that in the near future a quality study will be carried out which will address the shortcomings that have emerged. An overall committee is therefore pleased that the Riksrevision will follow up the matter further. With regard to the National Audit Office's study of sustainable land planning and land disposal, I would like to highlight what a majority said in the Innst. S. No 35 for 2007-2008. Concern was expressed that the values and principles that the Storting places on in land management are not sufficiently respected. The majority of the Committee found that land management had resulted in a reduction in areas to be maintained, such as the coastal zone, the watercourse belt, the snäufjellet, etc. An overall committee has noted that the Riksrevision notes that there is still no evidence of the achievement of the objectives in the area management and that the Riksrevision considers it premature to assess whether the actions undertaken by the Ministry have had the desired effect. Against this background, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision is following up the matter further and meets with more information on the matter. The National Audit Office has also followed up the management of the cash support scheme. When the matter was under consideration in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in 2007, the Committee underlined the importance of establishing effective control systems related to welfare systems and that the Ministry immediately put in place measures to minimise the number of malpayments detected. In this follow-up, we noticed that the department quickly followed up the weaknesses both in the management dialogue with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and through letters to municipalities, urban areas and kindergartens where the reporting obligation was clarified. However, the Committee takes a very serious view that in its letter of 22 April 2010 to the Ministry of Labour and Welfare, there is no significant improvement in the lack of procedural and cash support control. An overall committee therefore assumes that the ministry is actively following up the matter and is of course satisfied that the Riksrevision will do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e171	We will now examine the National Audit Office’s study on the achievement and use of the objectives of the Directorate for Integration and Diversity in the work on the settlement and qualification of refugees – Document 3:3 for 2010–2011. The size has several times determined that refugees should be settled quickly. The aim is that single minors should be settled within three months and that otherwise refugees should be settled within six months. Since 2007, the number of refugees to be settled in Norwegian municipalities has increased significantly and a growing proportion of refugees are single minors. It's basically the municipalities themselves who choose whether to settle refugees. The settlement of refugees is governed by the cooperation agreement between the State and the KS. The settlement of refugees is one of the most important tasks of the Directorate of Integration and Diversity, IMDis. By means of the Introduction Act, municipalities are required to provide the residents with an introduction programme. The aim of the programme is to strengthen opportunities for newcomers to participate in professional and social life and their financial autonomy. The integration area has a high economic cost. Total government appropriations in the area of integration and diversity amounted to 5.3 billion in 2009. kr. So how's it going in this field? It is an overall committee which points out that the results are not satisfactory. Among the factors mentioned are the following: The size has provided that refugees are to be settled within six months of the decision to stay. The performance requirement in the award letter is 90 pst. The study shows that in 2009 77 pst. of the refugees residing within six months. However, the results for 2009 are better than in 2008, when 68 pst. resided within the time limit. However, it should be noted that the survey shows that the average residence time has been reduced from 2008 to 2009, but it is possible to further reduce the residence time. The lack of suitable housing for refugees prevents settlement. This has been a challenge for a long time. Furthermore, the study shows that some municipalities have little capacity to participate in the various housing aid schemes. There seems to be a need for a closer follow-up of municipal work to provide housing for the refugees. In the case of Norwegian training, the result requirement in the letter of award is 90 pst. by those who are entitled and/or obliged to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge, training shall begin within one year of arrival in Norway. The reporting for 2009 shows that 72 pst. start training within one year, which is an increase from weak 65 pst. in 2008. The Committee notes that the study suggests that many small municipalities have difficulties in providing community knowledge training in a language understood by the participants. The Committee sees the need for more inter-municipal cooperation in this area. The Committee also notes that both the IMDI and the Ministry of Investigation have expressed considerable differences in quality in Norwegian training. We assume that this is followed up. Good training in Norwegian and social skills is essential for refugees to become self-reliant in Norwegian society. The Committee further points out: 44 pst. by the participants in the introduction programme switched to work or education after the end of the programme in 2009. This is a decrease of 9 percentage points from 2008. The performance requirement of the award certificate is 65 pst. We must stress the need for those who come to the country to become active participants in society through education and work. We believe that the focus on this needs to be strengthened. The Committee considers it essential that refugees become as self-reliant as possible and independent from economic social assistance. The Committee sees here the need for good cooperation between IMDi, the municipalities and Nav, including that actions from Nav and other labour-oriented actions should be used more widely in many municipalities. I mentioned in the introduction that single minors are an increasing group within this field. The target for the settlement of lone minor refugees has been weak for several years. The study shows that IMDi is far from the target of rapid settlement of this group. In 2009, 27 p.m. of the lone minors resident within the three-month requirement. This is a decrease from 2008, when 34 pst were reached, and very far from the performance requirement of the 90 pst award letter. There's obviously a lot to pick up here. In other contexts, the Committee has also highlighted the situation of single minor refugees, including: Int. 138 S for 2010–2011, from which it is quoted in our comments. To sum up, many aspects of integration policy have well-defined objectives. And then, of course, you can ask yourself questions about this because you do too bad a job, don't get to cooperate with the other actors well enough, whether it's system errors – or whether it's such that the performance requirements for IMDi may not be realistic. This is discussed both in the report and in the Committee's comments. The Ministry states in its comment on the report that they are concerned about this issue and will consider it on an ongoing basis. The Committee is pleased with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e215	Of course, the National Audit Office’s report is an important contribution to improving integration work. I have taken note of the views expressed by the Committee and which were now also expressed by the representative. I must, despite the fact that the targets have not been achieved, praise both the municipalities and the IMDI for the fact that so many refugees have been resident for a period of strong growth in the number of people who have been decided to stay and who are to be settled. The IMFI is facing major challenges in finding refugees within the targets set. This applies in particular to — as the representative was also involved — the lone minors. We all agree that in order to achieve a better goal, the municipalities have to live more quickly than they do today. The government has addressed the challenge, for the time being through the following: A pilot project is planned for direct placement of lone minors aged 15 to 16 years in some selected municipalities with experience in this work. The IMDi test faster and smoother residence over the year, in agreement with selected municipalities. The integration grant has been reinforced for lone adults and single minor refugees. Another proposal for action is now being consulted, and I would like to mention it in this case. The idea is that it should be as voluntary as possible among municipalities when deciding to accept and settle refugees. There is already good cooperation with the county council, which is responsible for the municipalities in question in each state. What is being discussed in the proposal currently under consultation is whether to grant the county council a right of referral, so that there can be even more and clearer power behind some of the final decisions. These are very divided opinions, and the government hopes that the hearing opinions and the consultation round will provide us with a good basis for making a decision on this – in good interaction and cooperation with the KS. With regard to training in Norwegian and social sciences, the representative also points to some challenges. Annual meetings are held for the exchange of mutual experience, the dissemination of knowledge and the discussion of results for the final test in Norwegian. This is done, inter alia: by Vox, who, on behalf of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has both the professional and educational responsibility here. We are also concerned about the quality of training. With this scheme, the Vice-Chancellors will be able to assess their own results up to the average for the country and for the region. These meetings are an important point of contact, which hopefully also contribute to both increasing interest and improving quality. In addition, the directorate, IMDi, sent letters in autumn 2010 to the rapporteur and adviser in all municipalities with the results of the Norwegian tests. Then we all agree that there should be a quickest possible settlement to make a rapid transition to work or education after completing the introduction programme. Here we know that there are great variations. A challenge with this scheme is, of course, that some groups from some countries make it significantly worse than others. This applies, for example: women from Afghanistan, Somalia and Iraq. That is why we have launched a research project on the introduction programme for those with high care and low education. We are getting a report on this from the research foundation Fafo in April this year. We agree that good introduction programmes are profitable for municipalities and must be seen as a good investment. Therefore, municipalities that are able to raise the results for groups that are currently in poor shape will experience that more people go out to work or further education and become taxpayers to the municipality. They therefore become a good resource for the municipality. On behalf of the IMDI, an analysis of the achievement of results is now being carried out in the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants. This project takes place in cooperation with Nav and KS. The aim of this analysis is to provide knowledge of what conditions may affect performance in the introduction programme. Then I would also like to inform you that the data quality has improved significantly following the National Audit Office's review of the IMDi. On the other hand, IMDi has made improvements in the register, and on the other hand, municipalities have increased the use of the register. With these comments, I just want to conclude by saying that a good quality of integration work, including a rapid settlement, is an investment in a good future for any municipality and any person involved. The Ministry will, of course, follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e255	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e263	Then we are ready to go to voting in case no. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-11.ana.ud2000e307	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
