ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e39	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e42	I am pleased to make a proposal by the staging representatives Frank Bakke-Jensen, Øyvind Halleraker, Bjørn Lødemel and Svein Braid on equal structuring possibilities for coastal fishing vessels over 15 meters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e61	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e70	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for a debate on an important topic that is not too often on the political agenda. I see that, through a stronger commercialization of research results, heavy historical cultures, the culture of business on one side and the culture of universities on the other, meet at an exciting intersection. There is not automatically a single meeting, but when one is closed, a willful one will lift and develop both cultures. By the way, we see this as a good example when NTNU was recently assigned to No. 4 in an international ranking for cooperation between universities and industry. Many have asked whether it is possible to maintain free and independent research at the same time as working more closely with business. How to regulate cooperation between university-based researchers and private enterprises, so that research on openness is not restricted, for example. by the industry's requirement to protect a patent? Well, without me dragging that debate into the Storting today, it is so that it can be resolved. I believe that as a case spokesman, I have the whole committee with me when I claim that commercialising the research results in the future will help to increase the well-being of society. For this reason, the Committee agrees that this is an important tool to help increase not only well-being but also general and specific knowledge, not to forget competitiveness. The majority share the view of the proposers that one should strengthen intensively in order to increase the commercialisation of research results. It is that this is an important theme, which naturally can also have room for improvement. But how it should be done, we would suggest that the government assess in the context of the work on the research message by 2013. The majority also share the view of the proposers that it is preferable to obtain a better overview of the commercialisation of research results. The majority therefore ask that it be assessed to a greater extent to include this in the Research Barometer as a fixed part. When the majority largely share their views on the whole issue, but the Stortinget does not have the right to adopt the proposal, this is because many of the individual proposals have actually been implemented or are not sufficiently accurate. The majority, therefore, do not support the submissions on FORNY2020, the direct deduction of R & D costs, the TaxFUNN, the gift enhancement and the BIA. When it comes to strengthening the FORNY2020 programme, I will show that it has already been implemented, less than a year ago. When it comes to the question of whether it is appropriate to deduct R & D costs directly, the majority believe that creating tax-specific schemes to achieve industrial policy objectives is a low-precision tool, which will also create major mitigation and control challenges. This will also apply to the proposal to extend the tax FUNN scheme to cover innovation activities. When it comes to the proposal to establish several user-driven research venues according to the model of the BIA programme, the majority would point out that the BIA will support the best research-based innovation projects within thematic areas not covered by the Norwegian Research Council. The programme has no thematic or sectoral priorities. The point is that there is an increase in competition between the projects, which I thought Right was for. In addition, the selection of projects will focus on innovation, research quality, enterprise economic value, social benefits, international orientation of the project, and the potential impact on industry of its own R & D efforts. This is so good that there is no need for any new scheme. When it comes to minority proposals, I assume that the proposers themselves may favour them. I would therefore recommend that the Committee give its opinion, unless it adopts the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e96	I must begin by admitting that I am somewhat influenced by a relatively late evening meeting yesterday, but we have to try to get through the debate anyway. However, I was awake enough to bring about that the case rapporteur did not argue against the proposal No. 1 and 2 and it is a good citizen of the wider debate. Then I have to say that I am very happy that the Council of State Aasland chooses to share the day with us and participate in the discussion. If we look at the statistics on Norwegian research and the evaluation of Norwegian research available, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that it is not primarily in the tool of the Ministry of Knowledge that the major weaknesses are likely to lie, but in the Ministry of Industry and Trade; however, there is a bit of vision from this platform – and of course you have to be careful about that. That is precisely why proposal No. 1 so important, because then they had forced the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Knowledge to sit down together and come to the Stortinget with a round of it all. I have a very good example: we all know that much of the good research in Norway is done at NTNU in Trondheim. – I had expected a little response to it from the hall, but I did not get it! Some years ago, European telecommunications authorities announced a competition for the development of new mobile technologies. Then there were two professors at NTNU who developed GSM technology, a technology that is still in use in 92 pst today. by all mobile phones that are produced. This is a clear indicator that research in Norway is good. But as we know, it was not Norwegian business that commercialized this technology, but it was Finnish and Swedish business at Nokia and Ericsson that did it. It illustrates the point I had that it might also have been possible to include the Ministry of Industry and Trade in this debate, and that we would have needed a more general approach to this. After all, we do not fully agree with the rapporteurs. They are bringing forward a new researcher from NTNU, Professor John Ugelstad, who in his time was one of the leading researchers in Europe in industrial chemistry. He worked mostly with polymers and polymer chemistry. He was challenged by American scientists who said that what is called monodisperse plastic balls can only be produced in a weightless state. It challenges Professor John Ugelstad intellectually. He said no, I don't believe that, I believe that my theories indicate that this can be done without doing it in a weightless state – and thus industrialize it. That proved John Ugelstad, not because it was to be commercialized, but because he was challenged intellectually. Only a heavy and large effort on generic construction of industrial chemical competence by NTNU made it possible. Today, however, these monodisperse plastic balls are industrialized. We've got big industrial companies producing this, and it's used both to diagnose and treat cancer worldwide today. But as I said, it is not based on a commercialization strategy, but it comes from an intellectually provoked researcher at NTNU. That is why we think it is quite right to place greater emphasis on creating a strategy for this, but we do not intend today to vote for most of the proposals that Right-wing are promoting, and have, to a large extent, also problematised it in the vote. As regards proposal No: 8, representatives from the Right will probably explain that. We think it's problematic. However, as the Right has not yet been argued for it, I get to come back to it in a possible three minutes later. I address the two proposals to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e115	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e118	I have to admit that I belong to those who are not in a very good mood in the morning, and that may of course affect the content of my post today. It does not help so much that I also have to note that the proposal of the High Representative to strengthen the commercialisation of research results does not get a majority in this area in the Stortinget – despite the fact that an overall committee underlines the importance of just commercialisation as an important instrument in contributing to future knowledge and competitiveness. That is precisely why we, who are behind the proposal, believe that this is an important proposal. We also believe that this is a very necessary proposal, because Norway in this area clearly makes it weaker than our competitors and not least our Nordic neighbouring countries. In addition, when we know that cooperation between academia and business is poorly developed in Norway — the Fagerberg Committee has established this — and research efforts in enterprises are lower than in comparable countries, it is obvious that we should do something. This ‘something’ has made concrete in this proposal to eight different measures, but everything is going to be voted down by the red-green majority here today. So it's really not necessary to be b-human to get sad at something like that. It helps to read the latest edition of the magazine Research, published by the Research Council. It came with a new number this week. Several pages are devoted to the theme of commercialisation. And as a mountain representative, I'm definitely in a better mood to read the following quote in the magazine: ‘In Bergen one thinks this: the best product, service or business in the world can well come up as an idea from researchers in just Bergen.’ The article that begins with these words takes on board Bergen Technology Transfer, which is one of the eight so-called TTOs that exist, associated with our universities. The BTO offers researchers from the University, Haukeland University Hospital, the University of Bergen and the Marine Research Institute assistance and assistance in assessing whether their research results are suitable for commercialisation, and in what way. During its first five years, BTO has been responsible for 18 commercialisations, nine of which are business start-ups. Nearly 20 products have been launched, and a number of potential ideas are ready for commercialisation all the time. But the means to continue working on the projects are needed. The FORNY2020 programme in the Research Council is the only source of funding for such projects. It makes the FORNY2020 programme an exciting and important programme. However, the programme is also intended to finance the operation of the eight TTOs, which account for about a quarter of the total amount seized. half of the available funds. At the same time, it is a paradox that these relatively modest means — slightly over 120 million. kr in the current year – are the only ones to commercialise the results of the entire public research effort of over 20 billion. kr. So the means of commercialization are just a little over 1/2 pst. of the public research effort. Therefore, in addition to promoting the proposal under consideration here today, the Right has also made a strong effort to strengthen the FORNY2020 programme in its alternative state budget. We're increasing the bet by 100 million. kr, which almost represents a doubling of the commercialisation effort in Norway. In contrast to the government parties – who vote against all proposals today, and who have only 10 million. In addition to this programme, in our State budget, we have in our right-wing ambitions to develop the results of the work of Norwegian researchers into profitable products and businesses. The best thing is that this benefits society – the rapporteur was also involved in it – and creates values for both the researchers themselves and the institutions in which they work, thus providing better research. A stronger commitment to the commercialisation of research results is needed if we are to improve in Norway to transform new knowledge into competitive jobs and enterprises that have products that the market will demand tomorrow. At the same time, the Right believes that funding for the Seed Funds is also needed, which the Government has not been able to prioritise in the State budget for next year. I take this up with me the suggestions on the matter on which the Right stands alone, and the proposals on which the Right is with the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e140	The representative Henning Warloe has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e143	Thank you for an interesting representative proposal – and the subsequent vote. It fits well into these budgetary debates. Having such a debate makes us even more focused and focused on an important topic. The key word here is commercialization. No one disagrees that what can be commercialised should and should be commercialised. Without a doubt, there is a point that the commercial efficiency of research should increase in the future for that part of our research where that is intended. It is important, and it must not least be inspiring for students, researchers and businesses to strengthen this focus on application and use and the cooperation that necessarily needs to be there to make this work more effectively. This proposal for a representative brings us right into the big and general debate on why we are going to be researching all over the world. In the two years I've been here at Stortinget – or have worked here at Stortinget, it's perhaps more correct to say – we've debated and answered this question of what is the purpose and meaning of research, in a slightly different way. The same diversity in the research debate is also on the outside of the Storting, and there are several answers being given. One answer is that it is important as educational support, the other that it is important for the education process in society, the third that it is important as decision support – with knowledge to build the country – and the fourth that it is important for value creation, etc. I believe that not least the last comment from the Progress Party in the vote well points to the breadth and diversity of this important societal activity. The broad perspective must also be used when we read and interpret one sentence that the entire committee is behind – on page 1, second column, second paragraph. I quote: ‘The Committee will point out that society needs more research-based knowledge in more and more areas. These developments lead to a higher rate of future growth in research careers based on the value-added of research.’» Here we must have a broad concept of utility – at least as far as the Fagerberg Committee was asked to base its work, published in the NOU A more open research system. If we're not on the wild roads, that is. narrow, instrumental roads. Since no one in the room has asked for a reply, I assume that this is an interpretation of the text that everyone in the committee agrees with. A debate similar to this important commercialisation debate is the debate on research dissemination, and there must be something far more than article publishing in high-end journals. The majority write in a note that one suggests that the government assesses the commercialisation of research results in the work of the research report. Here, just to mention it, I assume that the intention set out in paragraph 1 of the proposal will be respected, precisely in the Research Communication. In this context, it is equally important to assess the intermediary component. In the academy, it has been a culture where it has been seen as unnecessary – perhaps something under the dignity of a researcher, almost something professionally snuffed out – to write in the daily press or start public meetings, etc. There's an activity that at least doesn't give professional credit or ringing coins in the cash register for the institution you work in. The research was, as it were, intended to sell the sea – justifying the sea – and the user would be allowed to knock on the door of the research institutions and most graciously ask for some results. This is not working, and it shows the representative in a very good way. Research has to be disseminated, the results have to be sold in the sense presented, argued for – preferably for free. Research and researchers are thus more widely known and understood and used in commercialisation. That is good – also generally in other contexts. It must be clear to the research community that we open up in this way – that one has to go out into society in another way to argue for the activity that a seaman is doing. ‘Knowledge — From Public Goods to Goods’ is a sub-heading of an article entitled ‘University of Society — Between Humboldt and the Market’, by Knut Kjeldstadli and Alf Holmelid. It's an article that describes a trend towards knowledge as a commodity. Let me end by saying that here I think we should invite to a both-and-answer, because we should also have research as a product. It comes out very well here, but it also has to be part of a public common good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e172	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for both a good report and good work on the matter. Have you ever wondered why dust accumulates and becomes hybel rabbits? That it does, we know – but why? It was 6b at Ulsmåg school. They tested different hypotheses, such as static electricity – the same principle as a rolling snowball. Could it be that thermal cables attract dust, or that hybel rabbits are whirled up and settled in rear springs due to migration? They found out that that was the last thing. With this project, the Nysgerigper Prize won in 2003. Research is essentially curious. Why are things like them? What can we do to correct defects and deficiencies? How are we going to evolve as a nation? Research is absolutely necessary to get ideas and industries that you can build on. The Christian People's Party wants this curiosity to shape the school and teach and master. If Norway is to be a competitive knowledge society in the future, we are dependent on a long-term and predictable commitment to education, research, innovation, innovation and entrepreneurship. The Christian People's Party will stand in the limelight to achieve a much stronger and predictable commitment to higher education and research than we have seen in the past. A fund structure can be crucial, because research will never be able to win out in the social debate compared to elderly care, school and transport. A correct solution at this time would not have been to do as we did yesterday, to shut down the Research Fund, but rather to do as the opposition parties, to create a more robust structure. Research is exciting and good. But we must first get the knowledge that is created, out of the minds of the scientists and so on out of the institution or enterprise. Incentives are needed to present and disseminate all the knowledge generated by the research, but also to realise and commercialise it. The results of the research must be put to work. I sometimes ask myself if our incredible happiness in having the oil has made us not learning to spin. Commercialisation is an important step towards finding our new oil! We have repeatedly heard that the government is very pleased with the public share of the research, but I am concerned that the attitude towards the business share is a bit influenced by this: there is enough evidence that the private is not good, it is the public that matters. I wonder if the government inside says: The private floods of capital and wealth, and we're not going to contribute to the success of their projects. Then I would like to remind you that in the big companies there is capital and knowledge and competence both to conduct research and to some extent also to commercialise. But it may be the small and medium-sized enterprises – which we hope will also grow large, create jobs and produce things we need, find our oil for the future – that really need the incentives that public authorities can provide. When we in Norway have the lowest research effort in the Nordic region, it is alarming. We in the Christian People's Party want the public to help stimulate this effort to increase, and therefore support several of the proposals in the document. If we're going to be able to do this, we're going to have incentives that don't put knowledge in the minds of the researchers, shut them down inside companies and institutions, but that they come out and get realized and commercialized.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e205	The proposers shall include, inter alia: starting from the 3 p.m. target and, in particular, the responsibility of industry to achieve this. The government has retained the 3 pst. goal as a vision, which also applies to the rest of Europe. It's a vision that our part of the world needs to raise its level of competence and knowledge if we're going to get involved in international competition. We see that many countries in Europe have major problems, high unemployment, and they have not been able to compete in markets that require a high level of competence. Norway has a different situation. Our society is adaptable and highly productive. We share the 3 pst. vision in the long term because it is important not to rest on their laurels, but the situation in Norway is not precarious. It is difficult to find good arguments that we need a rapid conversion of Norwegian business and economics. The government is facilitating the strengthening of established business and the emergence of new business. It takes place through general initiatives independent of industry and themes, but also through cross-cutting technologies, which are important for the whole range of business, such as nanotechnologies, biotechnology and ICT. Let me also mention two initiatives in which the government, through public research and innovation efforts, stimulates Norwegian business to develop green solutions. We do this because it is good for the environment and good for Norwegian competitiveness and Norwegian jobs. Through the environmental technology initiative and the FME scheme – research centres for the environment-friendly energy system – we encourage academic environments and business actors to work together on concrete issues in the field of the environment and energy. Taking good ideas from our academic environments into commercialisation must of course be part of this, but it is much more complex than counting the number of new businesses and patents. It's also about nurturing our strong clusters, where knowledge forms and flows between established industrial and academic environments. R & D efforts in Norwegian business are lower than those in the other Nordic countries, despite the substantial increase in public R & D aid to enterprises in recent years. I should like to see industry's research efforts further increased, and, of course, I have dialogue with my colleagues in the government, as some people have missed here, and with business even on these issues. Although we have a competitive business with significant adaptability, a business that has been successful in recent years, it is important that the entire business community recognises that competence, education and research will play a crucial role in our innovative capacity in the future. Then to the representatives' proposals: FORNY2020 started on 1 January 2011. The programme has taken important steps to facilitate the commercialisation of research results. I therefore do not see the need for a plan to strengthen the FORNY programme right now. Now we first have to let the new program work. Point 2 of document 8:148S asks the government to present a strategy for strengthening incentives for commercialising research results. Let me say that there already exists a wide range of tools for commercialising just research results. In addition, this issue indicates a somewhat narrow perspective on how we will succeed in increasing value creation and innovation based on public research efforts. Such a strategy should be fattened beyond commercialisation. It is about developing a dynamic cooperation that provides learning and knowledge transfer between higher education, research and business. This perspective will be shared with us in the work on the new Research Communication. The Government is asked in paragraph 3 to incorporate commercialisation as part of the award criteria for research funding in universities and colleges. This issue has already been addressed in two sessions with sector representatives. The conclusion is that such an indicator is considered to have a low incentive effect. I would therefore not recommend the introduction of such an indicator. However, for next year’s research survey, I would like to assess whether there are indicators that provide a good comparison between institutions and countries in terms of commercialisation of research. In paragraph 4, the government is asked to ensure that higher education institutions report on the commercialisation of research results. Such a reporting scheme is already in place here. In paragraph 5, the government is asked to introduce a direct deductibility scheme for R & D investment. Here I would like to show that we have a favourable tax treatment for research and development costs through the TaxFUNN scheme. In paragraph 6, the Government is asked to strengthen the Tax FUNN scheme. The expenditure of this scheme is estimated at 1.3 billion in 2012. kr. We therefore provide substantial support for the cost of research and development to industry. This is what we are going to do, and we want to continue with the broad measure of the tax FUNN scheme. But we are not in favour of further enlargements that will lead to a sharp increase in expenditure. The gift-enhancing mechanism is for budgetary treatment in Stortinget. With regard to strengthening the BIA programme, it is not appropriate, from the government's point of view, for us to set up several programmes similar to the BIA, targeting the same target audiences. We have taken action to improve the design of the instruments and, of course, we will continue to develop research policy for the purpose of value creation and innovation in the context of the research communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e233	It is opened for line chord shift, limited to up to four lines. The first representative is Tord Lien. So it's drawn two lines from the Right, and the President asks to clarify it. It was the representative Tetzschner who drew himself first to line up, and then it is well that he gets that line. It'll be a little negotiation meeting. So we go to the line from Trond Lien, and then we get to who's going to take the Right Line afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e237	The quorum is high in the Progress Party, President. The councils will be aware that at NTNU's campus on Glöshaugen, we have something called the Valley of Death. It is also a well-known concept in the innovation and seed communities. So the Dal of Death is about how much good commercial technology comes from Norwegian universities and colleges, and then falls into this Valley of Death and does not come out and be implemented in the market. I said in my speech – and I am absolutely convinced of it – that in this debate, the Council of States must also engage Trond Giske in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. However, the Council of State itself has an important instrument, namely the technology transfer companies, the TTOs, at the major Norwegian universities, and eventually at the colleges. Is the State Council comfortable with the situation there and the limited resources available in the same institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e248	It's absolutely right that we have the TTO systems. We just have them to help the measures and ideas through this Valley of Death, with which I am well acquainted. Now, I guess it's probably not supposed to make everyone manage to get through. There must be a certain priority here. The purpose of TTO is just to establish a system that can help the companies that want to establish themselves to come up with those ideas. Of course, I will consider the efforts of the TTO at all times, depending on both the amount of applications and the complexity of the challenges that this establishment poses. But here it is also important that both working life and academics work together. We have many good examples of how this can be done, including from other countries. I've tried to get into this and I certainly believe that we can have something to learn from the experiences of other countries, but also from good experiences done in the NTNU environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e255	Then it is clear that the next replicator will be the representative Henning Warloe. It looks like we'll also have room for the representative Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e258	The government has this year published the Research Barometer for the first time. That is a positive measure. It was also one of the measures taken by the Fagerberg Committee as a recommendation in its investigation. The Fagerberg committee didn't talk much about the results of research, as many might have expected in advance. But the government's research barometer doesn't say much about research results either. I don't know if the Minister of Research had thought of it that way. I think at least that when such a good publication comes, with 100 pages of interesting material, of which a chapter is called ‘What results does R & D work?’ and it consists of two pages on a magazine, it doesn’t give the impression that the government is rather so much concerned about focusing on the results, such as the results. Commercialisation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e265	In the government, we don't count sides, but we're looking at what's on them. As far as the Research Barometer is concerned, it is important that there is a new response – the idea comes from the Fagerberg Committee. The intention is of course to develop this further, so that it becomes a good measuring instrument. I am very pleased with the pink representative Warloe is just giving to the Research Barometer, because in our opinion it is very one-sided to measure the research only by percentage and only by narrow and narrow targets that are difficult to control by. It is much better for all those involved in research policy and research to get the best possible dissemination of the criteria it is measured by. Here, of course, we will accept all the good input into the further development of the Research Barometer, and we have it as an important tool and instrument of governance in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e272	The next replicant is the representative Michael Tetzschner, and the last replicant is the representative Tord Lien. The representative will have to take the line from the speaker's chair down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e275	I thought it was posts I got.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e280	All right, all right, all right. All right, all right. All We're still in the loop. If the representative wants the line he has requested, he will have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e283	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e288	Then we move on to the next replicator, the representative, Tord Lien, who is the last replicate recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e291	I fully agree when the Council of State says this must be about the companies that can cope with commercialisation. But now it is still such that we flag out significant parts of the technology and commercializable projects developed at Norwegian universities. There are two reasons for that. One is that we are the best in the EU class to deal with EU legislation – and this may be true, as the Council of State often points out, that there are budgetary priorities that are the reason for it, that we spend too little money to ‘bridge the gap’. The second reason is that there is simply a lack of technologists in Norway. We have too little skilled workers, but we also have far too little civil engineers to be able to commercialize all of these ideas. I hope that the Council of State is not comfortable with this situation, that even those companies that are commercialised are not commercialised in Norway, but are commercialised in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e302	The aim of the government is, of course, to help with the best possible commercialisation here in Norway where the companies are and where the academic institutions are, where the ideas are often hatched. So that's the goal, and that's also why we have established these arrangements. Since NTNU and the Trondheims environment are often highlighted as good examples, where there are also many good ideas, I would like to mention that there is also a system for the capitalisation of research results, Investinor, which is an important part of the overall picture that we must imagine when we are both going to help companies up and down when they come up with new ideas, and also have a good system for capitalising research efforts. So here it's just to stand on, both by finding good ideas and helping businesses to get good commercialization of the results. Then we're going to hope that society is served with the good results that come out, and that knowledge and new products will be useful for further social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e309	Then the representative of Warloe has requested the last line, and that will be the occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e312	Thank you, President. We'll have to take advantage of the occasion. When the Council of State is here and is available and waiting for a line, she must of course also have it. I want to capture the government's research report, which Stortinget adopted in 2009. There is also something about commercialisation, although it is also far behind and relatively limited. It says: ‘Commercialisation from Norwegian universities and colleges, health companies and research institutes shall be at least at level with comparable countries.’ I assume the Council of State agrees that among comparable countries, for example, we can find. Our neighbouring country, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, which not only has a significantly stronger focus on research but also has a commercialisation culture and obviously more success in commercialising its research than we do in Norway. What is the status now, two years after the adoption of the Research Communication, and is the Council satisfied with the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e326	For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that when four lines are given rise, the representative must not feel it as a coercion, that is an occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e329	Nor is it necessary for the Council of State to stand still and wait for more lines! I would like to take the challenge from the representative of Warloe. Once again, it's not about how many pages or where a document says something about it, but it's about what we think is important. We know that we have a lag relative to e.g. our neighbouring country. I think it has a connection with the same reasons that make Norwegian business worse in research than for example. Sweden and Denmark. It is – at least when we measure this in GDP – both about the target, which is quite mobile, and it is of course about the structure of our business, which is different from what is in our neighbouring country. But once again, something's done, and we're going to do more. We are going to be working on more of the tools I have mentioned, and in cooperation with other departments. It's a goal for the government to give help to those who have ideas and want to come forward, and we're going to have systems that facilitate the commercialization process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e338	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e343	After only three hours of sleep due to coughing, I should have spent time talking about more research on bronchitis. I'm not going to do that. In my first post, I commended the proposers for the invitation to debate the commercialisation of research results. I'm still standing by that rose. But what I'm wondering is that a party that calls its alternative budget for knowledge and competitiveness uses so much energy to blackball Norwegian research. I'm trying for the best of my ability to listen to positive rhetoric, but it ends with the fact that the Right over time appears with a black measurement of Norwegian research in general and the publicly funded research in particular — and that on the basis of just one measuring indicator, that's the research run as a percentage of GDP. It's not strange, by the way, because it was Right that in its time it introduced a little bit unprecise the measuring indicator. Yes, that indicator is low, and it has to be low because Norwegian GDP is necessarily quite high because of our petroleum activities, and especially since, for example, Statoil petroleum exploration, offshore, is not included in that accounting. Warloe is not even trying to be nuanced by pointing out that the publicly funded research, measured as a percentage of GDP, is in the European top class — while it is the privately funded one that is limping. No, he claims that public funding fails. It doesn't sound logical in my ears. However, the Right does not want to change the distribution key about how much the public and how much industry should invest to achieve the 3 pst target of GDP. Where is the logic? Despite the fact that Warloe is a westerner and a mountainzar, and so should have a good starting point to boast the unhindered of the marine research, which is just going to take place in Bergen, it is silent about it. Warloe was right within Bergen a short distance, but not a word that the marine research community in Bergen is leading Europe in this area. In Trondheim, I had the joy of being impressed by the medical-technological research community at St. Olav's Hospital, which lives in a very fruitful symbiosis with NTNU. Norway is in the elite series in a number of areas. I mention in flig space exploration, northern light exploration, climate research and cancer research. The research value is complex, and we need a wide set of indicators to give the right picture of the position. Right is only busy by two indicators. I would like to refer to the Research Barometer, which the Minister of Research was also in, which uses 24 different indicators to get a more accurate picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e357	I am pleased, but not surprised that the case-rapporteur is impressed when he travels to Trondheim. I would like to say that I am often annoyed when I hear SVs from this pulpit. I was too today – but not for the same reason that I used to be, because I think what Aksel Hagen said was very good, and I was most annoyed that I didn't say it myself. This debate is about commercialising what can be done. I think that's the essence of what we're discussing here. Norwegian research is good, as it shows evaluations. That's a lot we have to clean up too. But much of Norwegian research is good, it's commercialization that doesn't work completely. It is quite right that there is something about statistics in Europe. As we increase the rate of extraction in Ecofisk from 17 to 70 pst, it is not the innovation, according to the crowd that sits and rules down in Brussels. But then it's not just useful to come here and say that, then we have to make sure that we get these numbers, this statistics, into both Norwegian and European statistics. I'll comment on the last proposal to the Right. Here we come to the conclusion that Norwegian research works well. We also need research into things that cannot be clearly commercialised, such as humanities and social sciences and welfare-oriented disciplines. I know that there are historians around Norway now who are involved in the development of games. After a while, the kind of knowledge can probably also be commercialised. But I believe that this proposal will create unnecessary noise in the sector. Generic knowledge-building is important, including in technological and real science-oriented disciplines. That's not all that can be commercialized overnight. I think if we had looked at nanosciences and education in nanotechnology today, we would have said that this is not commercialised in a business-economy perspective. If you were to follow this rhetoric fully, we would have put down the whole nanoscience. I have no doubt that nanotechnology will become a major and important industry in Norway in the future. But, as the Council of State says, it's not only useful to say that you're going to keep going, we also have to have some concrete measures. I have been very clear that we must have the Ministry of Industry and Trade with us on this. But there are two things that the State Council of Aasland itself can provide – one is to ensure that we have competent labour force outside the sector to commercialise these thoughts. The second is to strengthen the TTOs, so that we can build a bridge over this Valley of Death, not just to commercialize the ideas, but to commercialize them in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e370	The President understood this correctly – that the representative decided that no support was given to Right-wing proposal No. Eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e373	Yes, I've explained that before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e378	Of course, we do not have to make the big ideological debate based on this proposal for a representative, but I would say to the representatives of the government parties who have spoken that we must not use this proposal against us in the right. Promoting a representative proposal specifically on commercialisation and measures to improve commercialisation in Norway does not have to be interpreted as being the only thing we are concerned with. Let's do it. The second thing I would like to say to the government parties, and perhaps in particular to the rapporteur of this matter, is that I realized yesterday that it had become such a plate that went on again, that when the Right had something to criticize, we were driving with black paint. I also want to distance myself from that. When we talk about commercialisation in this context, it is a fact that we have a long way to go in Norway – which may be due to many things. The Council of State was concerned with some of the circumstances of its contribution. But I think we may also have to note that there has not been any culture to a particular extent in order to think commercialisation at Norwegian universities and publicly funded research institutions. There are good exceptions, but not to a large extent. I would like to quote a few sentences from an interview with the chairman of the Bergen Technology Transfer in the latest issue of the magazine Research, which says the following: ‘But there is still a large unsolved potential out there. Researchers are today under strong pressure to secure funding for research and to publish results. Unfortunately, the commercialisation of results falls far below the priority list.’ That's what the leader of one of our eight TTOs says. The feedback I have also received in conversation with people from other TTOs indicates very strongly that we have a way to go before we have a culture that promotes commercialisation, and that stimulates it. That means that incentives are needed. In this context, the proposal on which the Right in this context stands alone, namely that commercialisation should be incorporated as one of the award criteria for research funding in the university and higher education sectors, must be an incentive to put the topic of commercialisation on the agenda in addition to reporting, and also that the Council of State has said that she wants to use greater space on this in the next research barometer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e391	It was a wonderful experience to hear the debate today, not least because a government council from the Red-Green government used the word commercialization without the ironic undertone that a general has when we discuss how private can contribute good health care solutions. Commercialisation is almost an idealist approach. If we think about it, the whole community is based on us doing things that pay off. Without a commercial sector, politicians would not have had a single crown for distribution. I registered that the Council of State said that there was a wide range of instruments to promote research and innovation, and that is right. But then the question is, do these instruments work, have we seen in total this research and innovation climate as the previous speaker, Warloe, was involved, which is so important? Then I believe that the task now is not just to get even better benchmarks in the Nordic region, which the Council of State had in mind in an earlier article. I believe that it is possible to do something as simple as go to the patent authorities in the Nordic countries and hear how many newly registered patents there have been, and how Norway is in that race. Compared to the population, I can give the answer: Norway is the lowest in the Nordic region in terms of newly registered patents. What I was going to ask the Council of State about in a line, and she might come back to in a later article, is if the Council of State has asked herself why. You can react to it in two ways. There's no problem, we're going to live by being a commodity exporter, so we're not going to process or add so much competence into our goods. That's an answer. The second is that it's a problem. If we agree that it is alarming that we have a lower rate of innovation and research than other countries with which it is natural to compare, the question is what we are doing. What I see from the government in this debate is that, in addition to agreeing on good proposals from the proposers, there will be no concern about improving the general framework conditions, will not do anything about tax incentives, will not go further with the tax FUNN scheme. At all, one is not willing to see other distortions of the current tax system, for example. the taxes on wealth, which are also assessed and payable by non-profit enterprises, and this is typical of many start-ups. I would also like to strike a blow so that we could discuss it openly if you did not raise the child with the bath water in its time, when you cut the option system to make it a pale shadow of yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e404	I still believe, of course, that this is an important, interesting and informative debate, but what is happening on the proposal page is a bit ritual. The opposition is asking for a plan and a strategy, and government and position say we don't need plans, we already have a lot going on. For the fourth, or the fifth, or the sixth, or the seventh time from this pulpit, it still surprises me a little bit that it is the opposition who is going to ask for plans and strategies, while we are in position to say that there is a need for action here. Especially now when we're going into research reporting, it's funny that we're going to stop and start planning and strategy work, when there's so much going on, which the Council of State told us in a very good way. I am therefore in favour of what is proposed here. There are two types of proposals. On the one hand, the measures actually under way are as follows: What I said, and cf. the review carried out by the Council of State, e.g. The FORNY programme and the SkattenFUNN programme. And on the one hand, there are proposals that are direct contributions to the ongoing budget debate we have. As far as barometers are concerned, I fully agree that it is important, we are going to process it further, and we have had good debates on this. We're going to count and capture what is possible on a barometer. Similarly, in the debate on award criteria, the funding debate applies. Once again – I have to get back when I am praised from the pulpit – I would like to ask that we listen to the Progress Party and Tord Lien's reflections on it. We also need stories as well as censuses to capture the benefits of the entire research. Some of it can probably be placed in a barometer, it's going to be interesting to continue working on the future. To break the idyll with the Progress Party to the end and make a message to the Right: I think it's a bit funny that the two parties are so excited that the regional research funds are a wrong tool. In order to capture that part of the business that we need to gain more research awareness into – Dagrun Eriksen had an article about that business – we need one – we should say – low-threshold services. In addition, we need a meeting between research environments and business and society in our country. It's very good for business, and it's very good for researchers. I think that will at first give an increased understanding and curiosity of research and R & D work, and it will also make researchers good at meeting the needs of the type of business and local and regional society. Regional research funds, I think, are a good tool if we want to increase both the level of commercialisation and the value added of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e417	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 851]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e433	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e442	It should be a wish of the Progress Party to improve the scheme, not prepare the scheme, but we will come back to that. It is an objective for us as politicians that people with disabilities should be guaranteed the possibility of an active, independent life in line with everyone else. A clearly crucial part of achieving that objective is the availability of various tools to compensate for some of the practical problems that arise for the disabled person in the face of society and the practical barriers that prevent it from actually participating. The issue we are dealing with today is just about that – one important tool to increase the possibility of participation in work, the possibility of active leisure time and other forms of participation in society. An organized car is important to make everyday life as simple as possible. Therefore, State aid is also granted to these types of cars, divided into two categories, which are granted according to certain criteria and the degree of functional impairment. That there must be rules for who can be allocated cars, and what kind of cars, is obvious. In 2003, the Bondevik II government made changes to the car code, which meant that a distinction was made between so-called Group 1 car and Group 2 car. The reason for the conversion was to increase resources to follow up users who have the most severe disabilities, and with the greatest need for a specially adapted car. The size was unanimous in that the conversion was correct, and criteria were then set for who would have access to the different car categories. The system of change has worked for eight years, and over the two years this committee has been in operation, we have been made aware of cases where it seems unreasonable that Group 2 cars have not been granted. In a system of award criteria, it will always be that someone who thinks they should be given does not get – unfortunately. The question we politicians then have to ask is, of course, whether the border is set in a reasonable place. I think everyone remembers the Filip case from 2010, about little Filip that wasn't assigned to a van because Nav thought he could go a little bit, even though the parents' application was based on the fact that Filip had to be carried in and out of the family car. A growing boy gave the family more and more stress, but Filip didn't fit into the criteria. The case and other, different individual cases have shown that there may be a need for changes in the system, and the entire committee, and also the government, believes that today's practice, where Group 2 cars are given only to those who depend entirely on using a lift or ramp to get in and out of the car, can become too snowy. That is also why the government in the 2012 budget extends the Group 2 car scheme to children and young people with some timeliness. It is a step in the right direction, and with such a strengthening of the scheme, we can improve the daily lives of some families with disabled children who have not received such support in the past. That's good, because this arrangement is and will become, whether we like it or not, a budgetary question. I'm glad we found room for this in next year's budget. I am also pleased that the Council of State has announced that we will go through the entire car welfare system, and I look forward to getting back to that matter with discussions on changes and reinforcements in that connection. Then I want to point out that people who do not meet the criteria for Group 2 car, but obviously have a different need than Group 1 car, are offered a trailer as an intermediate solution between Group 1 and Group 2 in order to carry aids, like wheelchairs, by car. It may seem unreasonable for those who are referred to such a trailer but who feel that the need is quite different. Then I'm glad we're going to have an opportunity and come back to these things in this room. I am also pleased that the government has found room to extend the scheme already now, and that the Council of State is on the offensive and believes that improvements are needed. That's what we're going to get back to after the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e472	In the case of long-term mobility difficulties, subsidies may be granted for the acquisition or re-acquisition of a car, depending on your own car in the case of transport to and from work or in order to improve the functioning of daily life. It is assumed that the user has a real and comprehensive transport needs, and it actually has most people today. In St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03, a simplification of the car support system of public interest was proposed. A differentiation was proposed between users in need of a normal passenger car and users in need of a specially designed van. For Group 2, it was proposed that the existing social security scheme should be maintained in substance. This group would be better off with the new scheme. The latter regulation was designed, and as it is practised today, does not fulfil the Storting intention, but instead results in many more people with severe immobilisation being denied an application for Group 2 car – many more now than before. The Progress Party therefore had great hopes that the Storting would put the closet in place as they became aware of how the allocation practices had developed, and how this daily affects people who do not have their rights to participate in the world of work, in leisure and in social settings. Some users have filed a complaint with the Social Security Court without receiving any support. In one case, the applicant was granted the law of the law, but lost to the Supreme Court when the Directorate of Labour and Welfare referred the matter to it. Allocation practices were further reinforced. The most famous media issue is perhaps the Filip case, which was mentioned here, and which TV 2 has followed up at regular intervals. Other parents who have not been granted their applications have also appeared in the media to show how hopeless today’s award practices are. These parents have now been heard to some extent. From next year the rules will become somewhat more flexible for children under 18 years of age, but why will the government not also be able to change the regulation for them over 18 years of age to meet their needs? Government parties may be impossible in the belief that the need for transport and their own car will fail when a person reaches the age of 18 and can drive himself. In the last few years, the budget line for vans has been reduced by over 200 million. kr, which testifies to the fact that fewer and fewer applications are accepted. Most people who get a discount are actually adults. TV 2 has also had several entries about Henrik, who was taken away from his van without getting any new car at all. This was justified by the fact that he had no extensive transport needs. That's what Nav decided. In the NRK news on Wednesday we got the story of Odd Arne Mathisen, who needs a custom car to get a job, but it wouldn't Nav give him because he's not at work. It may not be so strange that the government has so far failed to help more disabled people get into work, when many have to spend years and effort to prove to Nav what they need. Unfortunately, there are many who give up the fight in such cases. On 9 February this year, the Council of State answered a question from me whether she would consider a change in the car regulations. The Council of State then replied by referring to the judgment of the Supreme Court. That's exactly what we were hoping to change today, because it's a regulatory change that needs to be made in order for this practice not to continue. She also pointed out that there was a budgetary matter, and said the following: ‘Then, like the representative, I can say that I could also wish that anyone who needed it got it. But as a responsible government party, there are also some financial priorities for the budget." The government is now granting only 18 million. kr extra to a car arrangement, so that they are kept under 18 years of age. There would be a need for approx. 300 million. kr to ensure that adults are also taken care of. It's a small amount in the big government budget. The reason they give in to children is that TV 2 has repeatedly made the hopeless situation visible to the parents of Philip and others. But what about all those who can drive a car themselves, all of them over the age of 18? The government is fully aware of the fact that many are being refused despite the fact that they have severe immobilisation and the need for a van. Is this a responsible policy? Many who were previously qualified for Class 2 cars are now offered a car with a normal trailer. Those with whom we have spoken believe that this is an inappropriate tool, and aids should be appropriate. Thus, despite what has emerged in consultations, through the media and through direct contacts from applicants, the government parties will not join the proposal. This shows how aids to disabled people are systematically deprived by the red-green government. I am sincerely disappointed and take up the proposal of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e499	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e502	For the Right, it's important to give individuals the chance to develop themselves with all their abilities. It shall facilitate a society with opportunities for all, where everyone shall have the freedom to live independently. Everyone who falls outside has to get a new chance. Then it is important that those who have the greatest need for society to facilitate them – those who need a little more to have the same amount – have access to what they need. One of these groups is just those with strong motion inhibitions. It doesn't make any sense to me that those who are persons with reduced mobility, but who have any function at all, should stand completely without the right to group 2 cars. The alternative, as we've heard before here today, is, as it is today, a normal car with a trailer. For many of them, it's almost an insult to expect to be offered this. While they could have lived with a group 2 car to a large extent free, independent life, they wouldn't have been able to do this with a car with a trailer. A trailer is unmanageable for obvious reasons and is something quite different than a group 2-car. In addition, it is almost completely impossible to use it normally, for just finding a parking space is almost impossible. It is nice that the government has found money in the next year's budget to at least be able to offer Group 2 cars to children under 18, but there is no relevant difference between a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old. He in 19 years needs such a car in order to live a free and independent life, get educated and get back to and from, for example. job. It will serve society, and for the individual person concerned, it could mean the difference between an isolated social security and an active life in work. To this end, the right would like to thank the proposers for a good and constructive proposal, which would be of great importance in the everyday life of many individuals if adopted. We support the proposal, and we have also spent money on such an extended arrangement in our alternative budget. We hope that the government parties will also see more light in this matter, although I fear that those who so many times otherwise agree to a good proposal because it comes from the wrong person and party. I would also like to express my concern about the length of the procedure for such car applications, which could lead to a deterioration in the ability of new users in particular to participate in society as a result of having to wait a long time for the decision to be taken on a car. I am pleased that the Council of State writes in a response to the red-green parties in the forthcoming draft budget that changes to the car aid scheme have now been in force for more than eight years, that she has taken the initiative to evaluate the scheme now, that she aims to initiate such an evaluation as soon as possible, and that any proposals for further adjustments to the interface between Group 1 and Group 2 will be considered in the light of the results of such an evaluation. So the welfare state can't be all for everyone, but it has to be strong enough for those who really need it to get what they need. Some people have to have a little bit more to get as much freedom as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e519	This matter is at the very bottom about the possibility of participation, about equivalency, about being able to participate in leisure activities, about being able to participate in work, and not least about building social networks, which you can get through work and leisure activities. Today, there is a system where, fortunately, a person can at least get some support, but as several have already pointed out, it is often not very appropriate. There are many people with severe disabilities who have been denied the benefit application for Group 2 car. The system has been in place for eight years, and once one has seen the verdicts and not least the Supreme Court judgment, to which several have already referred, it also shows the need for change. If you go back to the paperwork and the decision that was unanimous in Stortinget, the change was not meant to be what has been decided. It may show the changes in the year's budget and also the contribution to the rapporteur, which was a good contribution and which describes a clear willingness to and a clear agreement that there should be changes. We have all seen users like Filip and Henry, who are mentioned, and more who have been rejected, and some have been given a trailer – with all the disadvantages it brings. Just because they are able to get in and out of the car without using the wheelchair, they have been refused, even though they have a severely reduced functionality otherwise. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal promoted by the Progress Party. We have also invested money in our alternative state budget, because we want to expand the arrangement for those over 18 years of age. We all agree on the division into social security schemes for car group 1 and group 2. But this case is about better targeting the target audience based on what is really the intention, which is also agreed in the hall. When you look at both the comments from the government parties and the response letter from the government council, you will find that an evaluation has been started – which is good. There is also a clear consensus when the government has gone in to provide Group 2 car support to those under 18 years of age through the State budget. That's good, too. I must also point out that we do not have all the world with time in these kinds of things. The previous speaker pointed to a long trial period. The representative Giltun also pointed out that there are many who have a difficult or degraded life situation because they have been denied and who are waiting and waiting. That is why I would encourage the government to proceed with the matter. If you agree, at least you have to be able to get ahead, so that you can solve this. It's not about crazy big sums, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e536	Support for cars, and in particular the demarcation between Group 1 and Group 2, has been highly debated in recent years, both in political space, among user organisations and in the media. The proposers want the Group 2 car scheme to be extended. In concrete terms, the proposal states that all those with ‘difficult mobility difficulties and a real transport need for Group 2 cars are entitled to car benefits in this group in accordance with the applicable legislation’. The group we are discussing here receives a subsidy for a car in Group 1 under today's legislation – a scheme in which you can choose which car you want to buy. The motor vehicle compensation legislation was amended from 1 April 2003. The main purpose of the change was to make better arrangements for them with the most extensive disabilities. This meant that, within the overall financial framework of the car system, attention should be paid to the needs of the group that needed the most assistance. A new scheme was therefore set up, setting up a distinction between social benefits for those with normal needs, Group 1 and those with the need for a specially adapted car, Group 2. The entry conditions for entitlement to motor assistance were not changed in 2003. However, changes were made in the measurement of the benefit. As a result, persons in need of a specially adapted cashier receive a need-tested interest-free and discount-free loan. The scheme was economically more favourable than before, as according to today's legislation only 150 000 kroner of the car's total price were tested. This avoids a higher proportion of persons in need of expensive cars than persons in need of less extensive ones. It has been an ongoing government assessment whether the interface between the Group 1 scheme and the Group 2 scheme is correct. In view of the experience gained from the Employment and Welfare Act, as well as the input from users themselves, we have now proposed in the 2012 State budget to extend the Group 2 scheme to children and young people under the age of 18 with very limited walking capacity. I am pleased that a joint committee thinks this is a good proposal. The implementation of legislation in this area has been demanding. I have therefore notified the Stortinget that the legislation we are discussing here should be evaluated. The aim is for such an evaluation to start in the spring of 2012. I believe it is important to go thoroughly through the legislation and its practice before considering whether the interface between Group 1 and Group 2 should be further adjusted. As of today, we do not have enough knowledge to conclude on how the criteria for Group 2 should be in the future. The first step is therefore that the legislation is now being evaluated. I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a review of this legislation after the evaluation has been carried out and evaluated. Otherwise, I understand the Committee's concern about the length of the procedure in the field of cars. Reorganisation of the procedure in the field of cars is not part of this case. However, the report I get from the Directorate of Labour and Welfare shows that it is an improvement in the processing time. There are also clear indications that the practice of legislation is more consistent than in the past. I will continue to follow this up in dialogue with the department and will keep Stortinget properly informed about developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e556	At the 2003 reading, the scheme was intended to improve for those in need of vans. How will the Council of State explain what has happened in the last two to three years? There has been a dramatic decline in the allocation of the type of cars, while we see a lot of applicants who would have previously got vans, standing up and saying that they no longer get it. Is this an improvement for the group mentioned in 2003? So I want to say something about this with the 18-year limit that is now being introduced. Isn't that an age discrimination? Is there any technical justification for this, or is there a purely economic issue that makes it impossible for the Council of State to decide now to give them with a real need a better offer than they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e564	When it comes to better or not better, I think you have to separate two things. Firstly, one of the points of what was done in 2003 was to give priority to a group with a greater need. That's what you've done. Then the representative points out that in practice it doesn't work this way. The following must be borne in mind: there has been criticism from the National Audit Office regarding the management of this scheme, that there was a big gap in how this was carried out and distributed around the country. That is why the system has now been reorganized, so that it has gone from 20 – well – or 19 different arrangements to five offices that make these decisions. A more consistent practice has then been established. That practice may have been more stringent, but some of the background has been that initially, an award has been made under bad conditions. There has been a more consistent practice, which may have indicated that some people feel that they would have a van in the past, but do not get it now. The most important thing for me is that the processing time is too long, and it has also done that you have not received an award in line with what you might get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e571	The establishment of car centres should lead to better conditions for users. Has the Council received many feedback from users that they are satisfied with the new scheme and what has happened in recent years in terms of the allocation of car, waiting time, etc.? Or is it that what has happened in the last few years is affecting people with reduced mobility, so that they no longer get what they once had the opportunity to do, that is, that they have had worse relationships, are they against what the government is trying to give the impression of? When it comes to getting back to work, it's like you don't always get back to work. Very often you have a time in society – in social life. You are active in other areas before you can get back to work. How should Nav really assess who needs a car, i.e. Do you need a lot of transport? Don't most people have it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e578	I have been quite clear in my answer, both now and in connection with the case that has been raised, that we are not satisfied with the way this arrangement is being practised today. That's also the background for us to be clear that we're going to evaluate the system, both how to manage it, and the boundary between Group 1 and Group 2, i.e. the regulatory framework for who gets cars today. Just so that it is clear that I have said it: I fully understand this. So it's my point that you have to do this properly. And when the representative asks who to assess whether you have a need or not, it should not be understood that these are expensive schemes. The expensive, good arrangements must be given to those who have a right and a right to do so, but it requires good regulation, which must be well managed, and some must decide and enforce it. So that's what Nav is going to do, and I have faith that they're doing it in a good way. But the important thing for me is that we now go through the system and see if there is a need to change the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e585	I understand that the practice of a code that is not fully boxed is demanding. However, it is also the case that in a statistics collected from the Norwegian Handicap Association of Car Importers for Group 2 cars, there is a halve of delivered Group 2 cars, from 700 to 340, in the period 2007/2008–2010. There's a pretty big decline, and that decline seems to continue in 2011. Now it is possible for the Council of State to give Nav new guidelines for the allocation of resources. I understand that she intends to do so after the review, but I would like to ask her if she is willing to meet more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e592	So I have to remind the representative that the legislation we have is not the one that has given this government. Then it is seen that there are some consequences of having legislation for Group 1 and Group 2, and the consequences are further – perhaps you might say – tightened when you practise the legislation more equally across the country, based on what is the actual content of the legislation. It has also been confirmed by the Supreme Court. Now it's very important to distinguish between what's legal and what's political. Politically, I very much agree that it is important to do something about this group and this matter. I will – we have said that we should do that. But we can't say that because the consequences of a regulation are something that we kind of don't like here and now, we have to relax. If Nav had done this in some areas where we did not agree that the legislation should be relaxed, we would be very tight when it came to it. Nav practises this code, according to the Supreme Court, in line with the rules we have given. Now we have to see if the rules are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e597	I hear what the Council of State says, and I understand that she will evaluate the scheme. But there is a drop that is relatively fresh, which came a long time after the last government went off, as I pointed out, in the period 2007/2008–2010. But let's move on to the trial period, because it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with the law. It's long, and it's worrying. When can it be changed? And what will the Council of State do immediately to improve the processing time – because here we do not have to wait for an evaluation of the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e604	I am pleased with this issue, because it also shows – and it is important that I emphasise – the relationship between the length of proceedings and legislation. As I also said to the previous representative, it is clear that fewer applications are being dealt with because there is too much time to deal with – among others. in the current year, this is the case – reducing the number of offers. That's not good. I'm quite clear that we have to follow up all the time. One of the reasons why the processing time has been longer is the conversion of the entire car system, which I think everyone agreed was correct, because – and it was criticised by the Riksrevision – a system that did not work well enough, and that led to very large differences around the country. Then there has been a conversion that has taken time, and has delayed the procedure. It is not good either, but it has been a consequence of this. Now we see that the procedure starts to go down. But I can promise the representative that I am also concerned about this and follow this carefully. However, this is probably also linked to the evaluation. This does not mean that I should wait to “press” the processing time. But things are connected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e611	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e616	First of all, it is positive that the government is drifting on a matter like this. We in the Progress Party are all equalizing their age. We're going to show them the need to be able to participate in life in the same way as others. That is why we are presenting this proposal. I want to see another thing. The applicant has applied for Group 2 car and received a refusal. At the same time, Nav writes in the rejection that the person meets all the requirements for Group 1 car and all the requirements for Group 2 car, but Nav wants one to try out first hangs, even though both the seeker, the legend and the help center have advised this because the seeker cannot stop one. Then there came a new case handler, who would also replace that hanger with another hanger. And one is not finished here, no then, the hanger came, and he's been standing there from August 18th, 2009. First, he cannot handle the hangar himself, much less drive a car with him. In addition, he does not have any help with the wizard. Even if lizards, specialists, physiotherapists and ergot therapists express themselves and go thoroughly into the searcher's situation based on health and possibilities, Nav skips this. Here, Nav's unlikely ability to sit far above those who know and finish the seeker, by not accepting the application for a group 2-car, but statues say power with the delivery of a hanger, a hanger that perhaps others could have used. The council itself has said that when a seeker is unable to handle hangings on his own, and neither family nor others can help, they will not be able to provide support for the hangers. Words and actions are not the same. It doesn't end here. The seeker is left with an unused trailer, which has been standing for over two years, and his electric wheelchair. Then Nav says he can get a lot around this with a hot bag for outdoor use. In the center, the seeker must cross a bridge. To that the Vegvesen says this must be nonsense. Due to climatic conditions with a lot of weather and wind and a fork width that did not fit the wheelchair, he was not allowed to pass the bridge. One must also note that the rise is so steep that the wheelchair may choke, and one cannot tolerate it. There are also no plans for an improvement of the bridge. So what are we going to say -- a little bit special? Is it perhaps time to come up with an admission that one has a rigid code that is used against humans? Instead, a person should use the power to rely on professionals and their distributions to make everyday life better for them, so that they can participate in life as much as possible. As the picture shows: The hangar stands there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e633	The last article contains a kind of story that several of us have heard. Something is about the legislation, and something is enough about the fact that the practice of some places is fairly rigorous – if I can say so. When these car centers were laid, the law was wanted to be practiced in the same way as well as to be properly practiced. In my view, the story that my co-representative now had in mind is not a proper practice of the legislation. But I just remind you that the Council of State in its comments and in its reply replies was quite clear that she was not satisfied with how this works today, and that you should evaluate it and come back to it. I also think I have to admit that if I were to get into a situation where I would need such a car – and I have now been driving a car for over 40 years – it would probably be very difficult for me to handle such a trailer while mastering life in a wheelchair. And the community is actually not organized so that you can drive around with the hanger anywhere and park it near where you're going. It is well in the nature of the matter that if you are sitting in a wheelchair, it is also a bit difficult to have a long transport route from the parking lot to where you are going. Of course, this can also be done in practical ways, but I think you have to find a code here that goes within what most of us would think is reasonable. Then I think we also need to know – and I think everyone here knows – that when you live with the kind of challenges in your life, the small and big tasks of everyday life are more demanding. It costs more energy and much more planning, and it takes much more cumbersome processes than for us who are so lucky to be able to walk. That's why I look forward to this conversion. But I also see that it is important to get this similarity in the practice of today's legislation, and that one has to practice it according to what has been the intention of the rules, that people should get the car they need, in order to live a somewhat equivalent and independent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e644	Things take time, we're used to making changes. But the practice that has now been implemented in the allocation of a car, we have been very aware of for two years now. The case has been up here many times in the last year. It has been shown on TV many times, and I think it is strange if not also the government parties and the government council have thought about this with evaluation and new rules something earlier than when this matter comes to consideration. The proposal that we promoted was launched in April, and we set aside extra lengthy procedural time to try to arrive at a system. The little thing you've come up with today, 18 million. kr, compared to the large reduction that applies to only a few – there are only a few who benefit from what is happening today – I think it is not good if you really mean to meet, and you see that the need is not met. The Council of State itself has said that many do not meet the needs and would like to provide it, but that it is a budgetary matter. Why is more money not included in the budget when it is being dealt with now? 300 million. NOK 200 million. kr, is fine little, but if the government can't get it into a budget when it's had half a year on it, then I have to say that I'm skeptical to when there can be a change. Of course, it's an advantage that it's being looked at further. Nor can I understand why the government parties cannot agree to the proposal today, because what the proposal says is that those who have a real need for that type of car should have it. We should be able to agree on that. And then, in the light of that proposal and that decision, you can design new criteria that are adapted to it. It is strange that as long as the Progress Party is promoting a proposal, it must be voted down at all costs. At the same time, everyone here says that those with a lot of PRM, who really need that type of car, should get it. So we agree. How long will it take to design these criteria? Perhaps the Council of State could say something about that, not just about the evaluation. When can you expect changes? So I'm really wondering how to practice this at the 18th anniversary. Is it so that someone who gets a car when he is 17 years old can have it until he is 27 years old, while one who unfortunately ends up in a traffic accident when he is 19 years old is not supposed to get a car? This won't be easy. I hope that the government can be quick with this evaluation, so something can happen already until spring, at the latest in the revised national budget, and do not withdraw this matter beyond what is necessary. This is about small money, but it hits a lot of people in a serious way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e658	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 851]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e676	If you're going to have a safety net, you're dependent on having systems. In a welfare society one also depends on having large systems that can catch people before they fall out of work or before they stumble. Of course, some of the challenges are that sometimes the system can become very large and the individual can be very small. On the one hand, the system is completely dependent on being governed by rules, and it is a fundamental legal certainty for the individual user. You have to know that using a and using b is going to get the same type of treatment, fair treatment, in things that are similar to each other. At the same time, the key in the Nav system is to also have individual customisation – tailoring. So one of the challenges is that the system can be very big and the individual is very small. The starting point for the Right in Welfare Policy is that everyone deserves a new chance. Then we have to keep asking ourselves whether Nav is able to give people a new chance. Right strongly warned against central parts of the Nav reform. They warned both against many of the parts that a total collapse has set itself behind – at least an overall committee – and against many of the parts that are now causing the Nav system the biggest problems. The fear of the Right is that some of the main points of the Nav system may have been lost, namely, individual tailoring – the fact that each user, when he or she meets in the Nav office, will be met with a plan and a real opportunity to move on. The right has never been afraid to say that it assumes that the system is making any demands, and makes some clear demands. At the same time, it also presupposes working with users. There are two approaches to this problem. The first approach angle is the Nav as the system appears to the users. The second approach angle is, of course, Nav as the system stands out for the people who, after all, make up the system. I'm going to try to touch both of these angles of incidence. First, the hub as it appears to the users: Is it so today that Nav is able to deliver the individual adaptation required? Let's take the clearance of work and the claim, the right, to an individual plan as an example. In September, there were still four out of ten who did not get an individual activity plan. Well, it's going in the right direction, but still there's four out of ten that haven't gotten an individual activity plan. The ambition of the directorate is that only 25 pst. shall not have a plan of activity before the end of this year. The question, of course, is how to help them get back to work, move on into education, or make sure that they get into an action that actually works? Another thing that is worth commenting on is that the dissatisfaction with Nav is rising. I'm not able to assess exactly why it happens, but it's interesting to see that if you compare the 2008 figures with the 2011 figures – and you have in mind that 2008 was one of the most turbulent and difficult periods for Nav – it's like that. in response to the question of how satisfied or dissatisfied you were with the service you had received from Nav in general, the score in 2008 was 4.08, while in the spring of 2011 it was 3.86. Other quality indicators also show that Nav has made little or no progress — in some areas even declining. And then the most crucial question, I think, is what do these numbers show? What are the stories behind the numbers? Then, as a politician, you have to allow yourself to be somewhat anecdotal – we meet a lot of people, we hear a lot of stories, and we read a lot of stories. Of course, it can be that single stories don't represent a bigger problem in the system, but when there are many enough single stories, I think it points to something central. The evening post, e.g. the interview for a while back a young and newly educated woman who was told by Nav that disability benefit would be best for her. She had a lung disease that made her unable to work full-time in the sector she had decided to train within, but she would like to re-school in order to work part-time. She didn't. The message from Nav was that she had too much education from before. I think almost no one who has worked with Nav for a long time, has not met people who say they came to Nav, they wanted activity, they wanted help to get on, they wanted help not to fall out of work, but instead they were offered a passive disability. Then we have to ask ourselves the question as responsible politicians if it may occasionally be easier for Nav to get people into a simpler statistics to deal with by giving them passive performance instead of giving them active follow-up. The second point, of course, is that the system also consists of people. How does the Nav system work for the people who are there? The Nav reform was pushed through by a majority on the Stortinget, in which the Right was not part – at least not the Nav system as it appears now. There have been serious consequences for the competence of the system and for employees. We can look at some indicators. For example, Nav’s sick leave for the first quarter of 2011 was 45 pst. higher than in the rest of the world of work. In other words, that part of the system to prevent sick leave in Norway has 45 pst. higher sick leave than the rest of the working life. Recently, a new report from the Research Council showed that while 80 p.m. In 2008, employees at the Nav offices thought that users would get a better offer than they had before, had sunk to 59 pst two years later. In other words, the Council of State is facing a crisis of confidence in its own system, where fewer believe that the Nav reform of politicians and the majority of the population will actually work. We also know that many Nav employees feel frustrated by the fact that they have little time to actually concentrate on the users. They feel frustrated that the first line has been tapped for competence. They feel frustration over a bureaucratic and rigid management. These include: The right has taken up before, there is a governance that focuses too much on inputs, what to input, and too little on what to get out. We know that there is frustration over the generalist model on which the Nav system is based, namely the idea that anyone employed in Nav – now I put it a little bit on the verge – can do anything. But it has not been given that someone who has previously worked with regulated social security systems is equally good at dealing with users face-to-face. We also know that there is frustration in the Nav system and among the users of the Nav system about breaking the rules, for example. that very many, frightening many, Nav offices are unable to give users the right to privacy that they are entitled to. I want to sum up my concerns in five points. Paragraph 1: How do we ensure that all Nav employees, including those who do not have educational backgrounds to meet users, can handle users with respect and respect? Paragraph 2: How do we ensure that Nav has active and present sick leave work? I would like to ask the Council of State a direct question: is it so that the directorate's management is also measured on their sick leave work? On the right, many times it has been pointed out that it should be a matter of course both in the public and private sectors that managers are measured in their sick leave work. Point 3: Is Nav focusing on internal objectives and procedures and forgetting its original objectives, i.e. getting the most out of work? And does rigid and bureaucratic governance and reporting on inputs mean that Nav is given less flexibility and the ability to follow up users as they should? Point 4: There will be a new miscommunication, but what do we do with the large increase in the number of young people? Is it true that our system is so much as now telling young people that because they have suffered a disease, they must be permanently out of the labour market? Point 5: Where does the Nav Ombudsman go? Governments have notified one thing about it. It hasn't come. The government parties have told them to look at it. We haven't heard anything. Now there's another government budget where the Nav agent has not discussed, and it seems to me that the state council is simply training the scheme, or at least has a lack of commitment, to say it carefully. But then it would have been more reasonable to come to Stortinget and say that you are against the Nav Ombudsman instead of training the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e720	I will be allowed to thank the representative for an important issue that gives me the opportunity to explain both the feedback of users on the provision of services by the labour and welfare management and what action is being taken to give users a new chance in working life and to increase confidence in the administration to assist them. Then the interpellant has now addressed a number of other questions that I do not comment on in the first place. I'm now commenting in the first round what's actually in the interpellation, and then I'll come back to it in my next post. User surveys are an important tool to monitor the satisfaction of users with the service provided by the establishment. Annual user surveys are therefore carried out, involving a representative sample of 7600 users. The survey focuses specifically on the satisfaction of users with the availability of the establishment, the experience of users to be met by employees and the satisfaction of users with service and information. The feedback from the users has not been as good as I would have liked. Many of the results of the user surveys are on-site or have become somewhat worse compared to 2008. So it's important to say that there was a decrease in 2009. In many areas, however, we have seen an increase in recent years since the worst figures. It's important to bring in. But it is also important to be aware of what user studies actually contribute to saying something about, and what they measure. Employees of the labour and welfare management shall be both advisers and supervisors and shall at the same time verify that public welfare benefits are provided to those entitled to such benefits. Therefore, some users may not be able to meet their expectations, but this may be because it is outside the scope of the regulatory contribution of labour and welfare management. Therefore, I do not think that labour and welfare management will achieve full user scores on several of the questions asked in the user surveys. It may also take some time for improvements in the provision of services by the labour and welfare management to be reflected in user feedback. With as many different benefits as the Employment and Welfare Act administers, it is not surprising that the expectations and satisfaction of users vary, depending on the benefits received by users. Transition to ordinary work is an overall objective. For example, a person who is denied a daily allowance after having rejected a job offer can easily give negative feedback in a user survey. It is the age pensioners who say they are most satisfied with the overall service of the Employment and Welfare Act. They receive benefits regularly and without activity requirements. On Tuesday I visited the Swedish Minister of Social Security and Insurance, and he could tell me that the Swedish Försäkringskassan is also getting low scores on this type of research. This despite the centralisation of the administration that has led to a sharp reduction in procedural hours, combined with higher quality and increased non-discrimination in recent years. Although a number of services of the establishment have a clear control element, users should nevertheless meet with respect, courtesy and empathy. It is therefore good that there is a higher proportion of users, about 70 pst., who say that they are met with respect. But this is still too low, and I have opposite the floor, among other things. in the 2011 letter of allocation, I expect the proportion of users who are satisfied with full service, and the proportion of users who experience being met with respect, to increase in the future. On the positive side, the user survey of people who have had a job evaluation shows that most people are satisfied with the conversation they had with the supervisor. Eight out of ten agree, or in part agree, that they got to talk about what was important, and that the supervisor was interested in finding good solutions with them. This illustrates that there is a lot of good work done in the Nav offices, which is of course important for users to gain more trust in the system. So there are questions about what user surveys actually measure. It is therefore necessary to regularly assess whether the questions asked in the user surveys are designed to facilitate the use of responses to identify areas that can be improved. User surveys need to be complemented by information from several sources, such as research on evaluations, and, above all, dialogue and interaction with national and national user councils. The most important thing, however, is that labour and welfare management develop good procedures and a culture of improvement to capture and monitor the conditions that are not working properly. The interpellant asks what to do to give users a new chance and increased trust in the system. That's only 54 pst. in the core user survey, which in 2011 states that they have confidence in the labour and welfare management, which is significantly lower than in the corresponding survey in 2008. During the reform period, the State of Labour and Welfare has received a number of negative media outlays. There is reason to believe that this may have contributed to influencing the general trust of users in the establishment. I'm not saying with this that we're going to settle for such results, but I'm pointing to the fact that Nav, regardless of development, has to work long enough with an image that's created in a difficult time for Nav in the media. On the other hand, it is also a fact that the National Audit Office did not have any material observations on the 2010 accounts of the Agency this year. It creates much less noise around Nav, which I believe in the long term will help to increase confidence. The labour and welfare management is at the service of providing users with the benefits and services they require. Increased trust in labour and welfare management is primarily ensured through improvements in the provision of services by the administration. In the 2012 budget proposal, I have therefore highlighted the follow-up work with the performance management and ICT modernisation as the three main areas of action for the Labour and Welfare Act next year. Facilitating increased professional participation and combating permanent exclusion from the labour market requires that the focus of the Nav offices is now focused on better individual guidance and follow-up of the individual user. I am therefore pleased that the follow-up work in the department is getting better and better by the fact that there are more people who get follow-up than before. Too many people will be put in the follow-up at an earlier date. For example, about 13600 job performance assessments are now carried out each month under the auspices of the Employment and Welfare Act. At the same time, it is important to continue work on gradual improvements in performance management, both reduced processing times and improved quality. The case-handling time for a number of benefits has decreased, although the extent of issues that are not addressed in a timely manner remains too high for some benefits. The Employment and Welfare Act has also established new internal control procedures, and I have noticed that the Riksrevision also concludes that this has had a positive impact on the quality of the procedure. ICT modernisation will further strengthen and build up during this work. This is a forward-looking effort that over time will give the agency more opportunity to meet the challenges facing it. The objectives of labour and welfare management are ambitious and the organisation is complex. This means that plans and measures for further development must have both a long-term and a holistic perspective. With the wide range of work and welfare management tasks, improvements will have to be made gradually. I expect such an improvement in both services and services and believe that an actual improvement will also increase the satisfaction of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e759	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's clear that something goes in the right direction in Nav, and it's important not to paint black. But if you look at the last numbers that we've been able to figure out at least, it's like, on the questions, how dissatisfied or satisfied are you with the service you've been given at Nav overall? There's a decline from spring 2008 to spring 2011. How much confidence do you have in Nav's work as a whole? There is a decline from 2008 to 2011. I am met with respect when I turn to Nav – a decline from 2008 to 2011. My claim – without me going through all the media coverage thoroughly – is that although the media coverage of Nav is not more positive, it is at least less of the negative. This cannot be the reason why Nav is making it worse in users’ eyes today than in 2008. I think this is quite serious, and it's almost tempting to say – a little clumsy – that it sounded like the Council of State's response at once was: we have to change the user surveys. That's not a good solution. We have to ask ourselves, why is that? Then it may – we do not know – be that the reason for the dissatisfaction of several users is that more users are being asked to do so. In that case, it is a very big challenge, because not only can you, as the top political leader, be careful to say that Nav will never achieve a full score, because users don't understand that Nav also has to make demands, and they have too high expectations. Then you have to ask the question: Why – and how can you explain to users in a proper and proper way what Nav should do, and what Nav should not do? One cannot only determine – because of the system’s nature – that Nav will never achieve full scores. It's very nice with intentions, and it's good that the Council of State is clearly in contact with the directorate of what are the ambitions. But my question in the interpellation was a little bit more concrete: what can you do? For example – to point out this: I am met with respect when I turn to Nav. What can be done specifically to make more users feel that they are being met with respect? It can't be that the balance to Nav has to be: we have to make more demands, but then we can't meet people with respect. Because if we're going to be able to meet people with respect, we have to make fewer demands. That doesn't make any sense. There I call for concrete action from the Council of State. Is it e.g. such that Nav staff are well trained? Is it like this has something to do with the generalist model, that there are people who may not be used to dealing with users, who are sitting today and have to deal with users without having had enough training in it? Or is that the other thing? The Council of State has to answer. Then I also hope that the Council of State will say something about the Nav Ombudsman, simply because it can be – according to the Right Model – an important facilitator for the dialogue between the user and the system, which is so crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e774	We're doing user research in the most serious way. You have to do that. But I actually believe that Torbjørn Røe Isaacen agrees with me, and so far also with the Swedes – who say the right thing – that user studies are going to measure something that enough, for this type of performance, will always be very demanding to achieve good scores on. That doesn't mean you shouldn't take them seriously, but that means what's important to me, that we have to make sure that they can be used in a good way. There's no point in me just saying what I'm saying, I have to make sure that we get user studies that make Nav get a good follow-up culture associated with them. Then it is important to be quite clear – and I have been before – that the Nav reform is a huge reform. It is the greatest administrative reform that this society has ever done. It's taken time, and it's going to take time. There is a major administrative transformation that has been made – it was completed in 2010, then we opened the last offices. The 2008 survey did not have all the turbulent situations that have now been around Nav, both related to the organisational and to a financial crisis that caused problems to arise even in respect of the daily allowance. It does — and it is important to be aware of the user survey — that there has actually been a steady rise in overall numbers since 2008. If you just compare 2008 and 2011, it'll be a little wrong. But it's not so important to me, the most important thing for me is that it's not good enough. It's going very well, I think, with regard to the redundancy money and the follow-up. In 80 p.m. In these cases, this is done within the time limits set, and users experience a good follow-up from Nav in terms of redundancy payments and a plan. Some of those who do not have a plan today should not have a plan either, because they already had a plan before the introduction of the redundancy pay, so those figures are not exactly right either. What I'm very concerned about is how you're getting rid of new users all the time. You should be concerned that there is something actually going well in Nav. Then I fully agree with Torbjørn Røe Isaksen that we have a problem with people going into activity. I've said that many times before: it can't be done by Nav alone. Business, businesses and the public must open up their jobs. There we very much agree – far on the way – that one of the things we have to do is look at how we get people out, and then teach them out, instead of doing some of the things that the system does today, where we might over time lock people up a little bit with passive performances or in different types of actions, but the combination is important. So it's absolutely fundamental to ask the right: what does the right really want? I hear here that Nav is not succeeding, but I'm concerned – because I'm actually genuinely concerned that Nav is going to succeed – to hear all the good suggestions for what we're going to do in order for Nav to succeed better. I have my medicine. I believe that what is needed for Nav to meet with respect is that those who work there get more time – they can get that by gradually getting a better ICT system – and training, and that is what we are doing on a continuous basis. But I stress that it will take time, because it is a correct but new working method.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e787	First, thank you to the interpellant Røe Isaksen who has an interpellation that puts important things on the agenda. When I heard the interpellant holding his post, I got an association – if I had been to the cinema: No, now I've come to the wrong film. Because I felt that the post for the interpellant did not match what is intended for the interpellant itself. I felt that the Red Isaacs used the opportunity to talk our welfare community down again. The right approaches the Progress Party and is on its way enough to form a common platform in this respect. There is no doubt that some users and in different classes of users in Nav do not get good enough follow-up. The government has established that, we have established that on the Storting, and we are working to improve these conditions. Then I think it's important, when you're going to reflect on what gives trust, to think in the big picture and at the individual level. In general terms, what gives confidence to a government? What gives confidence in a society? Well, it's a model where we have little differences between people, where we have a system of great participation and participation, and where users of services have a real voice in government – to mention something. I sometimes ask myself the question when I hear debates like this: When are users used by politicians, and when are users using politicians? It is a difficult debate, but it is also a necessary debate. I think there are challenges on both sides to being factual and showing accountability in the review both of the subject area and of each other. It also applies to the way in which a person refers to users, to the concepts of a user, such as smarter, later, receivers, victims, helpless or helpless. Such terms also have something to do with trust. Freedom of expression is an important function in public space in relation to being concerned with the fact that there are differences of power, as also the Red Isaac was in his post, that there are differences in power between the individual and the system. That is why media talk and media debate are important. So over to the system level. Here's something that creates trust, and something that doesn't create trust. Injustice does not create trust. Different treatment does not create trust. And little control of decisions doesn't create trust. Predictability of people's expectations creates confidence. The Council of State set out in its statement the issues to be addressed, so as to improve the predictability and legal certainty of individuals. It's important to have good practice, it's important that decisions actually give the rights that people ask for, and what they have the right to. But there is also a dilemma there in relation to the requirement of more rights and individual assessment. There are difficult balances that employees have to assess every day in their job. At the system level, the government has also taken good steps to make the voice of users more audible. User advice is established, user voice is defined in all laws and regulations in relation to Nav. It shall ensure that users' voices are also heard internally in Nav. What I think you also have to ask yourself is why a distinction is so strong between users and employees, for employees are also users in many contexts. Then the interpellant was also involved in this with competence. Yes, competence is important, and proper competence is important. The government has now launched an investigation into welfare education, which should help to provide a much more adapted training related to the special needs of Nav. Finally, I just want to say that when I heard the article of the Red Isaac, it seemed that only we got another organization and another government, it wouldn't be a single problem in Nav. I think that's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e817	Thanks to the interpellant for focusing on Nav and how some users are met and cared for by Nav. Many of us are constantly contacted by users who are often frustrated and reported about the treatment and service in Nav. Many are quiet because they have somehow resigned and given up, given up because one is met by a hub that does not contribute to the individual's situation being changed or improved. This is not good. At the same time, many are content. We're not going to forget all of that. We have debates like this precisely because we want Nav to work. That's actually what I'm busy about. From my mailbox I took out a little extract last week just to see a little bit of what our fellow people were doing out there: “After two years of fighting, I had to get a lawyer.” “I had a diagnosis, after six months of meeting with Nav, I had two.” “Then I sent in the same papers for the fourth time, and the time goes without receiving a daily allowance. It goes to health, and the bills are piled up." "I was regularly talked to as I was an unsuitable child. I am 37 years old and I just want to get what I am entitled to." "I want to work, but Nav grants me a daily allowance without making any demands." "I asked for a new case handler, it took 6 months." This is the everyday life of many of our fellow humans. I don't want us to have it like that. That is why this debate is important. Knowledge is another moment that appears. Once again, with the impression that knowledge is either at the back of the system or is simply absent in some areas. In its latest report, the Court of Auditors also points to different areas that are not satisfactory: ‘The audit of the pension funds is critical that the variable quality of pension and benefit management, after many years of comments, continues to lead to significant errors in payments. The audit shows errors in 7.5 per cent of the controlled health care cases and large differences in quality of treatment between the counties.» When I get these e-mails from people out there, I have a little feeling that maybe the little Nav offices are a little bit nicer to take care of our fellow people when they get into trouble. It might be a little responsible: I almost know you. They have a tighter dialogue with them. It might be worth taking it further. It's in the big cities most of those who file complaints to me, are. So it's actually the way Nav continues to struggle, we have to recognize that. Therefore, there is still a need to focus on where it argues against and is not optimal, and to install resources, so that it can work in the future. I guess that's what the goal is for Nav to work optimally in all areas. So in the end, without a user using any of the budget money – human resources and properties are actually free – a person can at least start meeting people with respect and courtesy, because it's actually not around. You do not need to be personalised to get the best help from Nav. So here we have a job to do, and I also think thinking about the right person in the right place when it's up to them to add, is important to include themselves in this. Finally, the interpellant has tried to ask for the Nav environment. That's what I've been trying to ask for as well, more questions, written questions, and I get the same answers. In a way, I feel that there is a training going on. I'm sorry to hear an answer that is: No, we don't want to introduce a Nav obbo. I feel a bit like a Nav bypass, and I'm actually proud of it when people out there contact me. If I can help them and support them, not least in my everyday life, I thought it was nice to join them. But I want to listen: what is the plan? Now we've waited too long. I want an answer: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e865	First, I would like to thank my colleague who has addressed this important issue, and for his, as I see it, wise words at the beginning of this debate. The councils were a little bit concerned with Nav's reputation, we can call it reputation as well, and in that textbook it says that there must be at least ten good news to erase one bad experience. So the user studies, on which the Red Isax was inside, show a decrease in a number of parameters, which were referred from here. I wonder why the Council of State did not comment more on its concerns in relation to it, and I also wondered what ears the representative Henriksen must have heard from when she heard that the Red Isaac thus spoke down the welfare state. Because that's not what we're concerned about, we're concerned about what the council and the government will do with this. We know that steering such a big and heavy shot as Nav is not easy, no matter who sits on the top of the Nav pyramid, or in the Ministerial Chair. That's why we'll also be careful to outsource bombastic solutions, and there's probably no simple solutions. But in parentheses, we can say that when the Nav reform was adopted, that is, the Right Party of the Christian People and the Left, the government parties warned against making such a big shot in the social security system, precisely because it would be so big that it would be almost unmanageable. But that's the story. Today we're sitting with a hub that works in a lot of ways, but that still has some big challenges. As the interpellant and several people here have been involved today, there are many who experience desperate situations in the interaction with Nav. We as magnification representatives hear many of these stories from those we represent around the country. And although not everyone has the same reason to complain, unfortunately, many people are desperate for good reason. As I said, I'm not going to say that there are simple solutions to these problems that the Council of State just lets not implement of evil will. However, there are some proposals that have come from the opposition in recent years, which could have helped a while on the way. These proposals include precisely the Nav Ombudsman, not a type of political representative such as the child ombudsman or the gender equality ombudsman, but an ombudsman for the users according to the model of the patient ombudsman who could contribute to ensuring legal certainty for users and contribute to sound welfare management. We believe that there is a good and constructive input into how Nav can get better, and I don't understand why the department so stubbornly opposes it. The council did not respond, as I understood it either, interpellantly well at that point, and I hope not that it is because the proposal has come from wrong parties. Nav has not only many users, but also many employees. They make every day — across the country — a major effort to ensure that our citizens receive the assistance they need and require, while well managing the Community’s resources. That is why I looked with concern at the answer to one of the questions that we had submitted in connection with the treatment of the budget this autumn, where we were told that sick leave in Nav is higher than sick leave in the rest of the country – in the first quarter of this year it was even 2.8 percentage points higher. It might sound a little bit, but that means that the sick leave of the IA company Nav was 45 pst. higher than in the rest of Norwegian working life. It is very worrying that the organisation we have set up to manage all the country’s social security systems – including the health benefits – even has such a big problem with sick leave. At least you can't call it going ahead with a good example. I therefore hope that the Council of State will do what she can to take some action in her own house and repair her own house, while at the same time giving instructions to the rest of the Norwegian working life. But we understand that it has been demanding. In the end, I would just like to mention a reading article that was in the evening post yesterday, where a staff director told in a very illustrative way how the rules of the new IA agreement to follow up the search and absence work in practice. It was undoubtedly very bureaucratic, and it also appeared to be explained in detail. The forms were many and difficult to obtain, and it seemed that the way Nav facilitates the new reports or relations with business, took disproportionate account of Nav's needs and how they would be, without deterring the practical handling of IA companies in business. Then I can ask if it's not counterproductive, because I hope the council will take this and look at it a little bit more with the business needs in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e880	This is a very important debate, because Nav is in a way the foundation of well-being, and then it is incredibly important that trust is present. I am convinced that all the parties sitting in this Chamber want Nav to work, and therefore it is important to look at what we can do to make it work better. I've been working on these themes since 1997, and it wasn't just joy and fun before either, when there were different levels. But there is no excuse for it not to work better now – the point was that it should work better. Several have been involved in this, perhaps simple, which does not cost money, but which can also be difficult, namely that you are met with respect, and that you get the right information when you contact Nav. That's absolutely necessary. I think we're all familiar with the fact that when we meet with respect, it's easier to take over some negative messages as well. But this is difficult because Nav has a big and complicated code to deal with, and it's not like everyone should be able to. So to the term ‘generalist model’, which also Red Isaac was involved in his article. It is not a model adopted by Stortinget or, as far as I know, someone. Nav shall not be based on a generalist model. Nav should be based on a model where you are met and guided and get help from a person who can retrieve information from the others who can. That's the model. It's important that that's what we're thinking about. But it's a very complicated piece of legislation, so it takes time for training in this. That's what you're doing. There are also a lot of new employees, and it's taken time. That is why I understand the frustration of those who obviously also receive incorrect information sometimes or not enough information. Unfortunately, there are too many of them. That's the code. Is the legislation too complicated, and in particular to meet what the Red Isaac was in, and which I am very concerned about, and which the government is concerned about, namely tailoring? Yes, she can. However, there are some dilemmas about making legislation more discretionary or more transparent, as it is then open to greater discrimination and more individual differences also related to the assessment of case handlers. That might be right, and that might be wrong. What I know, at least, is that those who make the weakest, and who have the least chance of seagoing being able to compare the system, are the ones who most need clear rules. The experience is that the more you are assessed, the more you risk that those who are in a way a little out of the norm and have many problems get less of the rights they would actually have if the legislation were clearer. So there's a little bit of legal certainty against randomness. This should also be true of what we of course know: that people need individual follow-up. The rules must be kept under review in order for this to work as best as possible, but I think we need to look at part of this legislation, precisely to get to the tailoring seam that we all want. Then there are the work tools, among other things. The ICT system, which everyone knows has major shortcomings, contributes to the swallowing of human resources, but also to the fact that things seem to go wrong. It's important and right to put it in place. But it's also such that when you put things into a computer system, it's very difficult to find and sort of fix some of these things that I get on my table, namely that there's a crown error here or a crown error there; it's kind of impossible to fix something that's gotten into a system that goes off its sails. There is also a dilemma in such systems. Then it is important that Nav and other agencies responsible for this field learn to cooperate, so that they can internally solve at least what is wrong and that is not intentional by the user. So, of course, it's about resources into this system, that you have enough resources to meet the needs of the user. I've been around a lot of Nav offices, and there's no doubt that many of the employees are going to follow people like that. have very many users to follow-up on redundancy payments. Now I'm recording that there's at least a very wide majority in the future for the resources we're going to have into the Nav system for next year, and that's positive. I hope that we will then see improvements on this to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e895	I would like to thank the representative, Røe Isaksen, for raising an important topic. A well-functioning Nav is absolutely essential, both for us as a society and for too many individuals. Being a society's safety net is a big responsibility. This responsibility shares the organisation Nav with us, which is the legislative and granting authority. Let me underline one thing: it is the Norwegian working class that forms the dominant part of our national wealth. It is worth 10 to 15 times more than the value of all oil assets and other assets. The social benefits of several people at work versus social security were calculated by Econ in 2010. They found that an increase in the participation of persons who could have taken out early retirement, in the order of 45,000 annual works, would have given a 20-billion gain. kr per year and a reduced annual cost of 12 billion. kr. In other words, we have large labour reserves. Permanent work and liberal income are the key prerequisites for a good life. This also applies to those of us who do not have the full ability to work. Nav means a lot to get more people out of work and to increase work attendance. We know it's useful. But we rarely hear about the sunshine stories. I personally know many people with reduced working skills who are back in work, either in whole or in part, after assistance from Nav. I myself have experience of being part of those processes, with a positive cooperation with Nav, both as a trustee and as an employer. There are also considerable differences between Nav offices. Small offices often have good results. Small offices have much better user satisfaction than large ones. This is contrary to the predictions when the Nav reform was introduced. Many spoke of the reform as being dependent on a change in municipal structure. The small municipalities did not have the opportunity to do these tasks. Now it seems that the solution might be to divide the large municipalities into several small units, because it is in the major municipalities the challenge is greatest. In such a debate, there are many aspects to which we can focus. I want to focus on Nav's most important task: to be present in the local environment. By that I mean proximity between Nav and the inhabitants, proximity between Nav and the companies, proximity between Nav and the healthcare system and proximity between Nav and the municipalities. Around 450 offices should be a good starting point. The establishment of Nav has been a long and comprehensive process. However, we need to make sure that during the process, Nav maintains its main objectives and, in particular, constitutes an integrated and efficient management of labour and welfare. A prerequisite for this success is that the most decisions and competences are made by those who meet the user. Many users experience frustration by shifting decisions on them to invisible case handlers in administrative units. We must dare to ask if there is an appropriate organisation. We promised that people would meet all the knowledge and help within one door. Now, more people need help getting through the system, including those who got help on the first line before. A significant responsibility for Nav's functioning lies with us as a granting authority. We first have to make sure that Nav has the tools that are needed to do a good job. The computer system Nav has today expired. Nav's employees will use the working day to help people in work and activity — not plotting information from one computer system to another. The most important thing is that those on the inside of the door are those who have the expertise. I think the experience of many Nav employees and feedback has been ignored. Better organisation and a more tidy training offer are needed for employees, and we simply need to move more of the competence and decision-making authority to the area where the case handler meets the user – to the local office. We also need to ensure that the rules we adopt are as simple as possible. I am concerned that the local government around the country will be involved in the work with Nav. Nav is a partnership between the municipalities and the state. Hub has not yet been cast. I, and the Center Party, are concerned that the user focus should be focused on all further developments in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e924	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant, and for a good debate. There have been many important points that I hope the Council of State will take on board – and Nav will also take on board – because there were great expectations for Nav when the reform was adopted in the Grand Duchy by a broad majority in 2005. The intention of the Nav reform was, of course, that a desired more holistic thinking; a desire to help more people get into activity and prevent them from coming up with passive performance. That it would be challenging, everyone knew, but I think there were few who thought we were going to be where we are today, when the reform was adopted in this room six years ago. The user surveys to which Røe Isaken refers, which have declined every year, show that the challenges are great. There are also things that have gone in the right direction, and it's important to bring them along. Nav is enormously important, Nav is just the means by which the public has to meet the people who have fallen outside, or who are in a difficult situation and are falling outside, and who need the public to stand up for them. This way, maybe Nav is the most important tool that the public has to help people get an even better life, or to help them stay in work. There are incredible opportunities that lie in Nav. But the Nav and Nav offices are totally dependent on us sitting in this room giving them tools and the space they need to succeed in the job. I want to point out some keys that we in the Christian People's Party believe are important. To make Nav work, it is obvious that you need better cooperation between the municipality and the state. When Nav is composed in the way it is, it is very challenging for many Nav employees and Nav leaders to experience that cooperation is not better. Another point is the employees. It is the employees who have to do the work – or achieve the objectives we have. Therefore, the number of employees is important. Sick leave, which has been discussed by many, shows that there are major challenges and that employees do not necessarily have it easily. However, it is also important that employees are many enough to be able to divide users between themselves and have time to follow up on the individual user. It's absolutely crucial. A third point is the ICT system. Fortunately, good plans have been made for new investments. But we know that it can take up to six years – maybe even longer. We know that systems were started at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s that never went off, because it was demanding. I think it's important that the Storting doesn't rush through and push too hard when it comes to a new ICT system. But I also think it is very important that the work is done as soon as possible, because applications ‘disappear’ because the computer systems do not cooperate – all the extra work in different computer systems – goes beyond the follow-up of the individual user. Another point is action places. In order for the Nav offices to work and help users, they depend entirely on having something to offer them. Qualification programme, in the case of labour market measures. One sees a development in which more and more people are going on redundancy pay, who have reduced their ability to work and do not get the measures they need. It's not getting met. The need to stand in a long queue before you get the follow-up and the offer you need to get back to work is not to be met. One point that several people have been on is the Nav Ombudsman. When I – like everyone else – get e-mails and sit and read and hear stories, talk to people and get stories that are incredibly hard to deal with because someone sees that it's obviously wrong, I also notice that the people who are resource-powerful often win, while the people who don't have the same power to fight Nav don't win. I think a Nav agent could sort it out. One last point goes on to be seen. The e-mails, the phones, the stories – for all of us, it's basically a matter of being seen. Getting met with respect, as others were in the house, maybe the key is also to have a little bit more patience with Nav. This may not necessarily be the state council that can fix, but I think that if the employees get more time and also have more willingness to listen – and more understanding – it will be even better to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e947	Thanks for recording for the debate and discussion. It's easy to have a debate on everything, and it wasn't supposed to be a debate on everything, because the point on our part was simply to point out that if it's that way that more people are being dissatisfied with the system, you also have to look at how the people who work in the system are doing it. In that case, it is actually relevant with e.g. sick leave in the Nav system. But I want to try to concentrate on some of the concrete things that can be done with, now toward the end. I just have to mention something that I think is very strange. Is it to point out that Nav has a lot of sick leave, which is talking down the welfare community? Is it to point out that Nav is going to meet people with respect, who are talking down the welfare community? I have some problems understanding where that claim came from. But it might be like that if you don't write posts based on what's being said, but you just get them from Youngstorget somehow. I think the representative Reiertsen said it very well, that there are some measures you can do for free. The entire Committee agrees that ICT bets must be made, for example: – it's important. It's not free. But what it's possible to do something about, for free, is how Nav meets people. Then there are two questions I have asked myself during this debate. One is: does Nav have a clear enough internal routine to clarify for users what Nav is responsible for, and what Nav is not responsible for? I think it's good when, for example. The Nav director is out and says, through Dagsrevyen, that Nav cannot take responsibility for everything. I think almost everyone, including Nav's users, will agree with that. But does Nav have clear procedures on the internal, just so that users know what they can expect, but also what they can't expect? The second point is – and I think it’s very serious – that there are fewer users now who think they’re being met with respect, or at least there’s worse in respect than it was in 2008. I don't think it has anything to do with the media. Without my suggesting it, it is such that some service companies, for example, has service posters. They train their employees to meet customers with respect. There is no reason to be met with more respect when you are going to buy bread or washing machine than when you come to the public and are going to apply for money for a living. The second is, do you have a good enough course? Is it that those who actually sit there and meet the users of the Nav system have training in meeting people? Or is it that they don't have it? Do you have enough management training done? Is it a clear goal for leaders around the Nav system not only to deliver other results, but also to provide users who are there with their offer and to feel that they are meeting with a very fundamental respect? It may cost a little bit to print out a service poster, but the very large cost to Nav I don't think it is. All in all, this is probably what the representative, Mr Reiertsen, said, is free of charge. Then I'll just finally mention the Nav agent, but it'll probably come back to the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e964	The representative of the Red Isaac started by saying that this is a broad debate, and I really must say that. The point is – and we should be aware of that – that what we are discussing here is the whole of Velferds-Norway. Nav is the whole Velferds-Norway. In that sense, it's actually a very inappropriate forum to discuss such an important matter. We see that the representative goes from discussing everything, the whole model, to discussing posters at the Nav office. It's very difficult for me to go into that debate in three minutes, because it's a very important debate. It's an incredible range. We just have to agree, I think – at least here – that this is a proper reform. So I think we're going to agree that the expert group I put down, and that looked at this when I started as the state council in 2010, said this is a proper reform, and that's what you're doing right now. And then they said, don't mess with this right now. Nav needs peace, but they also need good work. I am very pleased that some representatives have been very clear on this. So I'm very concerned that it doesn't have to be a sleep cushion, because it's very easy to say that there's been a lot of problems, big challenges, and that's why we have to take things step by step. It shouldn't be like that. We must always be careful that I and the government and the Storting have the pressure that Nav is going to get better all the time. Nav is doing a lot of good, and I'm very happy to hear those who have said this. I am very happy to hear from those who have also said that we need to look at the conditions of those who work there. I believe that very many people in Nav are doing an incredibly important job, and I think it's important that we also talk it out, because Nav is made up of employees. You are also very concerned that meeting with respect is also about how you look at yourself. That's why I'm a little worried about the way some representatives have now talked about user studies. User surveys are essential for us to always meet users in the very best way, but we have to make sure that we keep talking in a way that makes the right expectations of Nav, but not least of the users, and not least of the Nav employees. We really have a very responsibility for how we talk about these things, because it has some effects in the systems besides what we might say here in the hall. In the end, ombudsman: I have registered that many have been concerned about it. The reason I haven't commented on it until now in my final post is not that I don't want to comment on it, but that I have had to comment on everything, from the whole structure to posters in the offices. Then the ombudsman comes as a ‘grand finale’, so to speak. The point is that I'm basically concerned with the legal security of Nav users, just as much as the others here in the hall are. There's really not so many people here right now, but there's a lot of people who listen to me, I'm counting on. We just have to keep discussing how we do it in the best possible way. Ombudsman is one variant. I have been personally engaged and thought that the representative had been a proper variant. I have not yet concluded on that question. I'm very concerned that we have a competence problem in Nav in getting the good people. It has not been given that building up an ombudsman function will be good. It's possible that there's a way to take our resources. Perhaps there are other existing schemes that are better. But I promise that I will very soon come back with a conclusion on this which will ensure the legal certainty of the users in the very best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e981	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e987	The size should then vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e995	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3-7, by Henning Warloe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, from Henning Warloe on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to incorporate commercialisation as part of the award criteria for research funding in the university and higher education sectors.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1022	It looked at the proposals No. 3-7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the Storting to strengthen the FORNY 2020 programme.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a direct deductibility scheme for R & D investment.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case to the Storting for strengthening the Tax Fund, by raising the maximum amount of intra-corporate and external support, and by removing the hourly ceiling and extending the Tax Fund scheme to innovation activities.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the gift-enhancing scheme for research to commercialisation activities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a strengthening of the BIA programme [[User-controlled innovation arena]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1063	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a strategy for the Storting on how to strengthen incentives for commercialisation of research results and how the instrument can contribute to this.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an overview of the commercialisation of research results to be provided in the annual editions of the Research Barometer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1090	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulatory code for the allocation of Group 2 cars in order to allow persons who fulfil the original condition adopted by the Stortinget in 2003 to have permanent mobility difficulties and a real transport need for Group 2 cars to be entitled to car benefits in this group.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1103	The President noted that the proposal for a decision contained in the opinion stated ‘prepared’, whereas it should be ‘improved’. It's not necessarily the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1116	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-25.ana.ud135e1156	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
