ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e65	No Marte Thorkildsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e73	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Øyvind Halleraker, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Anders B. Werp, Svein Harberg and myself to put forward a proposal on motorised travel in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e78	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e81	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on a father strategy for the establishment of equivalent parenthood.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e100	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Trond Giske, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen and Ola Borten Moe will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e107	I will ask questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. Unfortunately, we are constantly looking at headlines that Norwegian industrial companies either have to leave their jobs, cancel their employees, or also shut down all or part of their business. This is happening in the light of changing business cycles and as a result of the crisis that we see around Europe and elsewhere in the world, which, of course, reduces demand for some Norwegian products. In this context, it is possible to refer to, for example: NHO Economic Review No 4/2011, which shows that many export companies experience falling prices and lower profitability. One in four export companies now expect to permit against only one in ten enterprises a quarter ago. In this regard, I would like to ask the Council of State whether the government now has a strategy to be in front of helping Norwegian business rather than going after. When we had the financial crisis, Storting granted the necessary funds to get out of the crisis. But I would challenge the Council of State to say a little about what you're thinking in advance, in order to counteract this and ensure that Norwegian jobs are not laid down, as the Council of State itself has expressed through the media. In addition, I would like to challenge the Council of States a little bit about the fact that in the timing of the budget to be discussed later today, a number of weaknesses have been identified and have, among other things, been identified. also wish for a separate industrial notification. Unfortunately, the government parties have voted down, but can the Council of State say anything about whether he is a little more positive to such an idea to focus on this important field?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e120	Let me first say that it's a good picture that some companies are worried about 2012. It is not so strange, because in Europe it is a crisis, and in the world around us, there are many who are struggling. In Europe, there are now 25 million unemployed people. The euro is riveting, and the growth rate for the EU for 2012 is down to 0.2 pst. In Norway, we have a completely different situation. We have the lowest unemployment rate in 30 years. The central statistical agency estimates growth in 2012 to be 2.5 pst. – i.e. twelve and a half times more than the EU growth rate. In fact, we also have quite good employment in the industry. But the fact that businesses are hit by what's happening out there is quite obvious. We have a very open economy. We're exporting a lot of what we're making to Europe. When growth is low there, Norwegian jobs are also affected. The more important is precisely what the government is doing in the State budget; pursue a responsible policy and keep up the use of oil money, so that interest and exchange rates do not destroy export holdings. If you get it at the top of falling demand, it will hurt worse. At the same time, I would like to say that I do not think we should blacken the situation for the industry. The headlines on industrial death send a signal to young people in Norway that there is no point in taking up education and investing in a career in industry. In fact, by the third quarter of 2011, we have actually employed almost 300,000 people in industry and mining. It's almost as much as we had before the financial crisis. There's 22,000 more than we had in the third quarter of 2010. So over the last year, industrial employment has risen sharply. It's also important to bring it with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e129	Of course, I share the Council's view that we should not paint black. But it turns out that the part of the industry that's going up is the oil- and gas-related part. Our export industry is struggling. It also shows this barometer from the NHO, just about the increasing pessimism in the industry itself, in the industry itself. The starting point for my question is that we have to try to be in the forefront. We're going to discuss the state budget afterwards, at least the business committee, so we're going to spend relatively many hours later. But my question to the Council of State will once again be: Will the Council of State at least take an initiative so that we can have a broader debate precisely in the United Kingdom linked to industry and the future of industry? There are framework conditions, of course tax systems and a number of other fields. This is precisely when an industrial notification is important – the basis was actually already laid through a NOW until 2004. After that, it was put in a drawer. But I hope the Council of State can at least be positive that we are just getting such an industry message to facilitate the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e136	It may be appropriate to have a separate report on the industry, but I would also like to stress that all the other matters we are dealing with continuously in Stortinget also have an impact on the industry. When we deal with the budget today, there are many things that facilitate industry. In the spring, when we deal with a big message about Innovation Norway and SIVA, which has been through an entire evaluation, and which will now receive the signals for the future, it is also important for industry. In creating a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is important for industry when simplifying the daily lives of Norwegian enterprises with 10 billion. kr, it is also important for industrial holdings. But it may be – and we will get back to that if it happens – that we should make a separate case about the overall business policy. But I also want to say that showing responsibility in the use of money, not believing that you can only cash in with oil without affecting the export companies, would be nice if there had been a broader political consensus about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e141	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e144	We have recently seen that the closure of REC Scancell throughout the country has led to the loss of nearly 1,000 jobs. It's important to do something to try to get new industries going where we've lost these jobs. We know that the Minister of Economic Affairs, through meetings and play-outs, has created great expectations of new start-ups in the old premises of REC Scancell, among others. in Narvik and in Meløy municipality. The Council of State has also answered a question from me earlier that he has asked Innovation Norway and SIVA to follow developments closely. My question to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of State explain what this dialogue involves, and what concrete action will it take?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e151	It's not the government that starts, establishes businesses, it's the private business that does. What we can do is add up. When REC shuts down jobs in Norway, it is because of the very same thing that we talked about in the past, that international conditions, among other things. have led countries such as Italy to cut solar subsidies, to a decline in demand and to a fall in prices. The fact that China also comes with mass production of solar panels does not help the Norwegian companies either. The more important it is to facilitate innovation. Innovation Norway can contribute to this. SIVA is – and is expected to be – flexible when the type of events that occur in Narvik. It's SIVA that owns the premises. My signal to them is very clear: they should help to find a solution that makes it profitable to start new business. Fortunately, the labour market is such that those who lose their jobs, or get a permit, may have the opportunity to get a job afterwards, but then we have to use the tools we have – among others. Nav system – in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e156	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e159	I would like to continue this with new activities, because one of the most important instruments has been the food funds that we've had in the different university cities. They've been empty for a long time. The state councils are very well aware of that. He has, among other things, We have received strong reminders from our own rapporteur in Trondheim that it is empty. He announced in the ownership message that he would do something about it. In the revised budget, a Joint Nutrition Committee has recommended to the Council of State to do something about it, or at least to set a time when it intends to do something about it. In its alternative budget, the right has proposed to allocate funds to it for 2012. The government parties do not even have a time in this budget. When will the Council of State do anything about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e165	In the ownership announcement, we announced that we would increase the capital of business in three ways. We had to set up the businesses we own, when necessary, like us, for example. made for Hydro when they bought Vale in Brazil and became a complete aluminium company from mine to finished product. We do that when we increase capital in Investinor, and we're going to set up new seed funds. Investinor is already in place. One and a half billion. kr in new capital is used to help growers who are facing the future. We'll set up the seed funds when we're ready for it. We have very poor experience with the seed funds from the late 1990s, some even went bankrupt, some are in liquidation, and some have had very poor profitability. We know a little too little about the funds that were set up in the mid-2000s. The most important thing is that this is done in a profitable way that helps those companies that actually have growth potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e170	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e173	It's not really black-painting. But I have a long list of lay-offs and lay-offs – companies like REC in Narvik, Glomfjord in Herøy, Vestas, Hunsfos, Elektem company in Ulefoss and STX in Brevik, to name a few. We know that these closures and lay-offs not only affect employees at the respective factories, but they have major ring-fences throughout the community. How do state councils follow up on the communities that are now strongly affected – these are cornerstones of many – in cooperation with local forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e178	I fully agree with the opposition that we should be very conscious of the companies that are struggling. For example, we were. In the spring of 2010, when we created our own yard package to help shipyards and offshore industries through a difficult time. It is the overall economic policy that facilitates it; it is specific measures that facilitate it; it is the Norwegian model of good permitting schemes, with good arrangements for those who lose their jobs so that they can come back to work, and it is helping businesses with conversion. All of this is important. But I must also say that we must not blackmail Norway's situation. We have the highest employment in the history of Norway. We've had a growth of 250,000 jobs under the red-green government. In fact, in the last year we have strong growth in industrial employment, and we are almost up to the level just before the financial crisis in the autumn of 2008. So yes, we're going to see the dark clouds on the euro horizon, to say it like that, but we're also going to see the positive of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e183	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e186	My question also goes to the Minister of Industry, and I continue with the same theme. No, we're not going to paint black, but we're not going to paint a beauty painting. I share the Prime Minister's concern; he said earlier in the fall that we must not believe for a moment that we can have a setback in the world economy without it hitting us. With a cost level of 50 pst. We find it difficult to deal with the trading partners. The Council of State is itself out there and sees liquidations in the competitive industry; he sees that he has no short-term instruments. In its alternative budget, the Right proposed a number of measures that could in the longer term repair the disadvantage we have at our high cost level. Among other things, we want to do something about the significant increase in taxes on Norwegian jobs, i.e. on owning, which has doubled in recent years. We want to do something about the depreciation rules so that we get a better investment climate, and not least we proposed significant funds for research, development and innovation. That's the point of the important matter that was first raised by Harald T. Nesvik here today. What do you think you're going to do in the long term? It doesn't help to tell you about everything that's good -- I share it -- but how do we stand up to what's coming? I do not want to repeat the question that has been raised earlier today, but very much want to challenge the Council of State on what is his long-term action to improve the competitiveness that is now undoubtedly in the process of weakening. It's not black paint; it's reality orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e195	First of all, I think it's a question that I need a little bit more time than 1 minute and 57 seconds to answer, because it's all about the broad business policy. I am very pleased that the representative Fleet says that things are going well, because things are going very well in Norway. There is not one country in Europe that would not swap our macroeconomic figures with its own and take over the Norwegian situation, with record low unemployment, with State budget surplus, with trade surplus and with employment growth in industry. This is quite unique. We can be happy, both the representative Fleet and I, because we are not involved in euro cooperation. I think that is an advantage for Norway, and it is an advantage that we run our own economic policy based on Norwegian macro-economic sizes. But when it is said that competitiveness is severely impaired, we must be aware of it. It is about wage growth that it must not exceed the productivity growth of enterprises, and it is about interest and currency. I think the representative fleet has a bigger problem with his potential partner Progress Party on these issues than he has in getting the agreement of the government parties on having a responsible economic policy. But then it must also be said that yes, we have a cost level – what to say, a salary level or a standard of living – in Norway, which may be 40–50 pst. over what is in the EU. But we also have an productivity per hour of work that is 40–50 pst. over what you have in the European Union. In that case, it is only fair and just that employees actually get their share of that productivity. It's precisely because we work smarter, organize better, are more efficient, have products that have a high price on the world market, which allows us to defend the standard of living we have. Then we will continue to invest in skills, continue to invest in research – there has been a record increase in the research budget in the last six years – and in innovation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e206	I thank you so much for the answer, even though I got even more shrewd-painting, iced-up horrors that it is good that we are not in the European Union and that we should not be with the Progress Party. Nor have I said anything about the world that I think the Norwegian salary level is too high. On the contrary, I think that is excellent. I will ask a brief question as follow-up to the Council of State: does he think that the management of one of the most important instruments for the Norwegian export industry, namely export finance, has been exemplary in the autumn, when one sees the uncertainty it has spread in export companies, which has actually spread to financial institutions through the downgrading of export finance? This, not only in my view, but in the opinion of many, has been very clumsy and is not active industrial policy to boast of. Does the Council have anything to say?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e213	First of all, if we have concluded that the representative fleet is to stay away from both the euro and the Progress Party, we have come a long way to create a safe framework for the Norwegian economy. So to the question of export finance. What is the case with Export Finance is that there is a private institution that the state owns 15 pst. i, but where there are others, larger owners than us, and where the company and the board of directors are responsible for the company's operations. The company has had a contract with the State to manage the so-called 108 scheme, i.e. the financing of export contracts – or loans to export contracts. It has a six-month notice period. When the EU introduced new rules on capital requirements in such financial institutions, we were given export finance time to see if it was possible to recapitalise the company. It didn't turn out to be possible. We were willing to be with our share. When that was not possible, we decided to establish our own state system. That's what the authorities have done. Then it's the responsibility of Export Finance to make sure to communicate with their partners about their financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e220	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e223	My follow-up question goes to Minister of Fisheries and Coast Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, and I would like to inform you at the outset that the Council of State does not have to worry about who I am going to be friends with in the future. Special tax policy means that Norwegian jobs are placed under an entirely separate pressure. In fact, in difficult times, seafood companies may have to build stocks because of lack of sales. This stock will be valued at the end of the year and property taxes will have to be paid by the owners. Now we have recorded that the Gisk Council has been out and disagreed with the government's policy in this area – as has the Navarsete Council. Nor does she agree with the government's policy on the tax on wealth. My question becomes this Council of State: is it the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast of Berg-Hansen who is then going to defend the government's policy with regard to the taxes on wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e235	The President would point out that the issue of taxes on wealth lies below the Minister of Finance, but the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs should, if she wishes, be given the opportunity to respond to his part of the perspective on this tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e238	Of course, the President is quite right that it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for all taxes and taxes, as well as the taxes on wealth. I have to say that I fully agree with both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister who said in the past that the wealth tax is an excellent instrument in relation to the distribution perspective, the distribution aspect. Then the Minister of Finance, and in the past I have also registered the Prime Minister, said on several occasions that it is of course possible to look at devices and see if you can do a good tax even better. I'll follow them in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e245	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e248	Then we will continue with the crutch, while my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. While the Minister of Trade comes out, I would like to say the following: if you go in and look at the SSB's analysis report no. 3, it shows that most of the growth we have in employment is oil- and gas-related. I don't think a single country in Europe would have replaced that oil and gas, precisely because there are natural conditions that make it grow, and not necessarily the amazing policy that the government always pursues, even though I expect Giske to take credit for the fact that Norwegian oil appears on the base – if we leave the reasoning instead. It's when things go well that we have to build for the future. We need to create a framework that will make it interesting to both invest and start new jobs. The council is very good at telling us how many jobs have been created, but he is very bad at explaining to us how many jobs have gone away in the same period. My question to the Council of State is this: When he spoke about the rules of permacy in his previous reply to me, he showed how good they were. What, then, is the reason why he has zeroed out the improvements that came during the financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e259	Let me reply to the last one first: it is simply that you need other measures in a situation where GDP falls by 1.5 p.m., where unemployment is rising sharply, and how many businesses need to permit, than you do when in many sectors you now have a shortage of labour. The situation in Norway today is that we have the lowest unemployment rate in three decades. Some companies, quite rightly, say that they are concerned about 2012, but some companies say that their main concern is that they do not get the competent workforce. Then it is not certain to extend the permitting arrangements, as it might as well be possible to channel the labour force of the companies that want to recruit. It's true that a lot of industrial growth is in oil and gas, but there's nothing negative about it. It is an enormously profitable industry, and it is not obvious that Norway has built up its own oil and gas industry. It is the fluest of countries that have found oil and gas but have not been able to build their own competitive industry. Now we export more goods and services in the oil and gas field than we have in the North Sea. It's actually a honor to a fantastic industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e266	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e269	Norway is lagging behind in the competition, if necessary, in the knowledge labour force. Norway is becoming an increasingly expensive country to live in, we have a strong krone price, we're probably seeing a break in research, and the government is adding more tax incentives to the industry. Active policies are therefore needed to improve Norway’s competitiveness in knowledge-based labour. Two out of three knowledge establishments consider active organisation by the authorities to be necessary if Norwegian businesses are to increase their competitiveness and attract more skilled labour from abroad. We saw a little sparkle yesterday, when one of the government colleagues of the Council of State is approaching the Christian People's Party's industrial policy and is proposing to remove the wealth tax on working capital. What action will this Council of States take to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises in the fight against knowledge-based labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e276	Let me first say that my experience in the Minister of Industry chair after two years is that the government parties and the Christian People's Party find each other in many areas. I think we have a rather close and common view that we should not leave the market forces to ourselves, but that it is when state and private play on the team, Norway becomes the best. The Norwegian model has been incredibly robust through the toughest crisis in the world in 70 years, and it's precisely because we have a strong state that can hold on with capital, which can hold on with research funds, which provides support for businesses through a knuckle, and a well-functioning private business. In addition, we have a good education system and a lot of public research money. Just to take research, as I also know from previous experience: the research budgets have never increased as strongly as they have in the last six years. I think it's 60 pst. growth. It's about the same size as the Cultural Promise, as many people have heard, and it's got a lot of praise, but the research promise is, as a percentage, almost the same. In billions it's much bigger, because the starting point was also so much higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e283	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e286	I don't want to make black paint, but with the facts. In the 2012 government budget, the bulk of the population has adopted a tax boost for private business, which the Council of State had just reached, of 200 million. kr. The left will go the opposite way. Norwegian competitiveness is not least about facilitating small businesses. It is true in business policy that what's good for the little ones is always good for the big ones. But it's not that the opposite is the case. I know well the mantra from the red-greens about keeping order in their own house. It has been a matter of concern to all governments. I also know about audit obligations and Altinn, which the Bondevik government started. But my question is, will the Council of State present a comprehensive strategy for small businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e293	The answer to that is yes. In the spring we will present a separate strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we have announced that we will carry out simplifications for small and medium-sized enterprises, or for Norwegian business as a whole, of 10 billion. kr by the end of 2015. That equals, if we succeed, 21,000 annual works in savings. We're already in the process. We have removed the audit obligation for small businesses. There are over 100 000 companies that are now free to carry out audits, if they want to. We have decided in Stortinget, last week, that the share capital requirement for ASs should be reduced from NOK 100 000 to NOK 30 000, and we actually have close to a record in the number of new companies that are being formed. We're also about up there at the level we were at before the financial crisis. But we're going to do a lot more, and this strategy is going to be presented in the spring. We also listen to the Left, as part of the positive opposition, in terms of good proposals for a good strategy for small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e299	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e302	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base have contributed to great value creation and have given us huge revenues, which we all enjoy. For the Center Party and for the Christian People's Party, it's important to be good administrators and to be able to leave our globe in a better state than we got it ourselves. That's our ideology. However, the oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base also have a slight side-effect — almost one-half of national emissions coming from this sector. In the current climate policy, we have adopted some emission targets for each sector. The oil and energy sector shall reduce by between 3 and 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. That's the government's policy. In the oil notification the Council of State presented, projections show that there is an increase of three million. They need to decrease, in relation to current policies, while projections show an increase of 3 million tonnes. At the same time, we also see State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen saying that it is expensive and stupid to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and that the oil sector should be exempted from new measures. Yes, there is a picture of a department that is sneaking away from its own commitments, which government and big business have adopted. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State mean that the oil sector is going to implement new measures beyond the current CO2 tax and the current quota system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e321	Thank you for a good question. Let me first use two sentences on the story. It is quite right that the Norwegian oil and gas industry represents an adventure for the whole of Norway, which has led to great value creation, great technology development and many jobs, and has, in a sense, brought the Norwegian society into a new era. There we all, including the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, have a great responsibility to bring forward a proud Norwegian administration tradition, so that you can turn around in a few decades and say that the choices we made now were wise and forward-looking and made our adventure continue. So I want to distance myself from the description of the Ministry of Oil and Energy as a department that sneaks away from its commitments and ambitions on the climate side. Firstly, we are responsible for the development of renewable energy, but we have a great commitment to put in place the new energy – the environmentally friendly and climate-friendly energy that we need. There I hope and believe in constructive cooperation, not least with this hall, to be able to give the necessary permits and to be able to get support for the great development that we are facing. So the oil and gas sector in Norway has done a lot of cuts. We have the base in the world that produces the least – the most climate-friendly, the most resource-efficient and environmentally friendly oil-producing base in the world. We're not going to lean back and say we're satisfied with that. Rather, we should further develop that position of something that is even more resource- and climate-efficient in the future. At the top of the world’s highest CO2 taxes and at the top of the quota obligation, we implement many other measures. It is about regulation to prevent emissions to the external environment, and it is not least about electrification of the power demand offshore, where we have implemented measures and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e335	Yeah, we've been able through history to take big cuts, while we're producing the most. However, nothing positive has happened to this sector since the Ministry of Oil and Energy was imposed on a climate of between 3 and 5 million tonnes by 2020. State councils say you have to take even more. My question then is, how are you going to take these cuts? Is it true that on Monday, in the case of renewable energy, and in the case of green certificates, the historic day will be used to electrify the cap? We know that in a climate cure there is a requirement that all new installations should be electrified, that it will be the rule, that it will not be the exception. Will the Council of State assess it until the Climate Communication is presented here at Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e340	I believe our main focus must be to make Norwegian sockets even more energy-efficient, even more environmentally efficient and that we are getting even better at things we are already good at. That's right for the environment. That's right for the climate. I also believe that it gives us increased competitiveness internationally. These include: therefore our solutions are now in demand all over the world. So this has a perspective that goes outside of Norwegian. I also believe very strongly that the reality that we are not implementing new measures is completely wrong. Norwegian Socket is moving in the right direction day by day. If the answer hemdal is looking for is that we are going to reduce Norwegian production in order to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, I think it's a strange reasoning, all the time it will only lead to increased global emissions. Our production will be replaced by other production, presumptuously from more polluting sources. I have already notified that the new large find Aldous/Avaldsnes should be evaluated electrified, but it also requires infrastructure development and on-shore production. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e347	The President must remember that speaking time is up to one minute. Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e355	I can't avoid saying that when the Council of State talks about the oil adventure, I think more about Espen Askeladd and "I found, I found," but I have to say that I'm worried when the Council of State so clearly talks only about production. Our questions are about emissions. We have a goal to bring down the emissions, and that's what this is all about. But the Council of State has also taken note of it internationally. He traveled, among other things, to Canada where he boasted of Canada's oil sand industry. He said to the newspaper The Globe and Mail that it is impossible to see a future where these resources will not play an increasingly important role. So yesterday, the news came that Canada was withdrawing from the Kyoto agreement. Their climate emissions are approx. 25 pst. on the Kyoto commitments. That makes Statoil's and Norway's investments even worse, because now our investment becomes one of the reasons why Canada withdraws from the agreement. Does the Council of State think that it is right that Canada withdraws, since he has backed up the oil sand investment as strongly as he has?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e360	Now I think it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. As I have seen, Canada is under its Kyoto obligations, but they do not want to be part of an extension of the Kyoto agreement. That makes Canada in the exact same booth as the United States, which has been outside all along. So I've said, and I think that's right, that unconventional oil and gas resources have an increasing share of the world's energy supply. It is a natural consequence of the increasing availability of conventional oil and gas resources, the right price and the difficulty of finding them. They've seen it in terms of shale gas in the United States, and you can see it now in terms of shale oil and maybe also with oil sand in Canada. There are large resources available in well regulated democracies in the West. I think that these resources are somehow going to be exploited, and then it becomes very important to focus on how to do it in the best possible way. I have not stated whether I am in favour of or against oil sands in Canada – I have said that there is, and I believe that Statoil is contributing positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e367	Per Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e370	First of all, I have to thank the Council of State for his contribution to perhaps nudging and balancing an image of Statoil's involvement in oil sand, which has become reasonable – let's say – unfurnished in Norwegian media, not least by using images of opencasts, etc. when talking about Statoil's commitment. So I think it's great that the Council of State actually helps to nuance a picture that is not made quite well. What is a little more worrying, on the other hand, is that some politicians express will and political commitment that suggests that you want to override what is Statoil's business engagement abroad. Then you can ask questions about how lucky it is. What does the Council of State think that leaders give such signals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e377	The state's ownership policy is well anchored both in government and largely through several ownership messages and broad settlements in this room. I believe that there is no uncertainty about how the state should manage its ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e383	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e386	Now both oil sands from Canada and emissions on Norwegian soil have been a topic, and it is natural to ask about the EU fuel directive that is now being revised. The EU Fuel Directive is therefore to be revised and it is proposed to have higher CO2 emissions on oil sand production than on other types of production. My question, however, is: what does the government do to ensure that the low emissions on Norwegian soil are reflected in the directive, and are therefore traded in the competitive advantage that it should be in relation to production in West Africa, Canada and elsewhere with lower environmental and climate standards than what we have on Norwegian soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e396	Let me first say that I am in favour of a fuel directive that works. I am in favour of a fuel directive that is fair, transparent and that leads to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. So I think the answer to the question from the representative is the Norwegian starting point of the climate negotiations, namely that we need an international agreement with a global price of CO2. It is the most effective and fair instrument both to ensure emission reductions and to ensure that energy efficiency/emission efficiency variations are reflected in product prices in an even better way than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e406	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e409	I want to follow it up with oil sand, because what the council said was wrong. Canada withdraws at the end of the Kyoto agreement in 2012. Indeed, many of the arguments such as the government and those supporting the oil sand project will fall to the ground, such as this. Per Rune Henriksen – now State Secretary – said in the last debate on oil sand that we had here in Stortinget: ‘My point is that oil sand operations in Canada are conducted within a Kyoto regime, within a quota trading regime, where allowances are set.’ Or as Jens Stoltenberg has said to the evening post: ‘The entire climate regime is based on the responsibility and accountability of each country for its own emissions. Emissions in Canada are Canada’s responsibility.’» Does that mean that when Canada withdraws from the Kyoto Agreement, when it has been used as an argument to support it, all the arguments that government parties have had to participate in oil sands are now disappearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e424	First of all, I think it's alarming if State Secretary Henriksen has said anything in Stortinget. Meg acquaintance he simply does not have the right to speak. I am happy to have the question, simply to clarify the following: I think it is stupid that Canada is not now following up on the continuation of the Kyoto agreement. I wanted not only Canada, but also Japan, Russia and other countries to make a commitment in one race. However, I feel that what Canada has done is to stand by the agreement they have signed, which expires in 2012, and then you don't want to be on the sidelines. If I am wrong, of course I should take note of it. Within that framework, I believe that the same rules apply to investment internationally from Norwegian and other companies, as in all other countries, including the United States. That is, I wish Canada had still committed itself in the same way as Norway, but the fact that they have not done so cannot disqualify Norwegian companies in Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e433	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e436	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. In Durban, Norway has once again tried to be the world’s environmental savior. The back of the International Medal of Honor the government is trying to obtain, the failure sins are at home – among them the submarine U-864, with 64 tonnes of mercury on board. Outside Fedje in Hordaland, it is still in unstable lateral rental at the bottom of the sea, after being found in March 2003. Eight years have passed without being handy. The government, in its six years, has not managed to dig up mercury, but has, on the other hand, dug itself into investigations. One of three submarine parts is missing clearance. The submarine was divided into three parts when it was lowered. The mid-section of the submarine has not been found – an important piece of the submarine is missing between 7 and 8 metres in width. Missing middle section probably contains a large proportion of the 1,860 mercury bottles lying in the submarine’s keel. Handling of the submarine, whether it is being raised and removed as the Progress Party will, or covering as the government has previously recommended, requires credible clarification of the location of the mid-section and location of the mercury in the mid-section. What has the government, the Ministry, the Coastal Agency and the Council of State done to clarify this situation, to find the third part of the submarine with its mercury cargo?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e449	To the question about the middle section of the submarine, we all know that the submarine was torpedoed. There is probably a certain danger that parts of it were destroyed in any case, without me being able very much about the effect of getting a torpedo midship on a submarine. What I'm concerned about is how we deal primarily with mercury. The parts of U-864 are not the important thing, the important thing here is mercury and its handling. I have also previously debated this matter with the representative of Sortevik. I assume that the race here and the decisions that were made in this hall are known to him. We are now in a quality assurance procedure, which we have in all cases of this size. In the past, we have had a round – and a decision – that was about everything to be lifted. It was rejected by the quality assurance companies. We went back to the beginning, for a broad investigation. The investigation and the quality assurance we are now awaiting are – in good Norwegian – just around the corner. What quality assurances have been about, and that's what we're all concerned about, is just the long-term effects of the measures we're putting in place. No matter how we treat this pollution, we know that it has to be covered afterwards, because there is a large area that is contaminated here. Quality assurance providers ask questions about its long-term effects. They will receive answers, and we will be able to deliver the quality assurance – and of course will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e458	Thanks for the answer, which clears up a little. The Dovre Group carried out quality assurance of the cancellation project, which was stopped early in 2010. The raising project was stopped by the government on the basis of that report. The Dovre Group quality assurance report pointed out that ‘the mid-section of the submarine tower was not found’. Is the Council of State really satisfied that this uncertainty is continuing in the current work, with regard to a middle section which there is every reason to assume that there is intact and with significant mercury load? Is the State Council satisfied with the continuation of uncertainty, or is it trying to cover up this lack of clarification in the work now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e469	Unlike the representative of Sortevik, I do not have every reason to believe that it exists intact. I don't have any knowledge to suggest that this is the case. What we know is that there were mercury containers on board the boat. Some of them were enough in the middle section, but some were also in the keel of the submarine. These are wrecks that lie around in a relatively delimited area, but we know that there is mercury in the masses at the bottom. This indicates that there are bottles on which holes have been found, as mercury has already been leaked in the bottom masses. What we have said, and as I repeat here now, is that in what way we best deal with this mercury pollution, the only thing is important. I assume that we will receive recommendations and advice in the further process related to KS1, which we will soon receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e477	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e480	It's obvious that it's important to be out in the world and tell us how good we are – and then we let it scour and go into our own neighborhood. I think it is special that now for eight years you have been doing this and not getting any more. You actually don't know where the missing middle section is. Then I record that the Council of State is very clear that she believes that large parts have been destroyed or destroyed. But I record that many experts and defence people believe and are very clear that it cannot be as the Council of State now says. They actually think it has to exist, but no one knows where it is. Then maybe you should also use some resources to figure out where the middle section is, because there's probably a lot of mercury there. The progress party wants to lift the boat and believes that it is the best solution for the environment. Should not the Council of State better clarify where the missing middle section — and the mercury load there — is in this important environmental issue, both in terms of fish and in terms of Norway’s international reputation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e491	This submarine – the wreck – and the mercury lying on the bottom outside of Fedje is a very demanding thing in the sense that we have no equivalent around the Earth. Here we are going to deal with a major mercury pollution. In fact, the most important thing is how we do it in the best possible way for environmental reasons, for the benefit of those who are going to do the operation, and for the benefit of the population both in the West and in the rest of Norway. I want to say that the most irresponsible thing is just to sneak on and start picking this up without knowing what you're actually doing. I have great confidence that the many experts who have been in this will give us the absolute best advice, so that this can be done in the best possible way. Then it is not the wrecks of the submarine I am busy with, but that is how we handle the mercury.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e498	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e501	Constant delays and refusal of action expose coastal fishing interests to unnecessary clean-up loads. Fish as export items depend on the clean sea. The uncertainty associated with the handling of 64 tonnes of mercury is, of course, a major problem. The right has supported the Council of State to follow the processes that we ourselves have imposed in dealing with such matters here in Stortinget. But the government is in the process of challenging our patience gradually. A week ago, the Council of State told me that «the mercury shall rise». It was stuck. She has also previously replied that it should not be on the money. The question that remains then, and as I think we need to get an answer to it, is: When can we get this case to be dealt with, so that we can finally eliminate this pollution threat?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e510	I thank you for being responsible for this matter. It deserves the coast, it deserves the seafood, and it deserves the people of the West and most of all of Fedi. I have been to Fedje and visited those who live there. I've met the grandmothers, I've met the children and the people of Fedje. As I said, this case is so serious that here we can't rush away and do the overgrown things. It is the most irresponsible and the most dramatic. That's why what I'm very careful about is that we're going to get the best advice -- have the best experts to review this. We now have a quality assurance going on, which – I have to try to remember, because there are several quality assurances that we are waiting for – I think is just about the corner. Quality assurance shall be available early next year. Then we have to make a choice about how we're going to deal with this further. It will of course be discussed with Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e519	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e522	The Council of State has confirmed from this interlocutory that the submarine will be lifted. This is a matter where the government has meant the most: we know that the government went for cover. So just before the 2009 elections, the government said the submarine would be lifted. So there was new uncertainty when we dealt with the matter in Stortinget in 2010 – then the government was more uncertain. And then the government confirmed a little over a year ago that the submarine would be raised. I want a reconfirmation that it stands by layers. Then the question is, when will this matter come? Yes, there is a quality assurance work to be done, but the government has thus spent four to five years working on this work since the issue was raised in the UK in 2007. Doesn't the Council of States think it's a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e531	It's taken a long time. It's a demanding project. That's the background because there's been more options on the table. Nor is there any doubt that the vast majority – if not all – of the professional recommendations have gone to cover. Then it's from the population related uncertainty to the long-term effects of cover. The government has decided to cancel. Once again I have to say that it is not primarily the submarine itself and the metal that is left there, I am concerned about. It's mercury, and we don't have an overview of where all of that is. But the most important thing when it is to be raised, because it is decided that we should bring up the mercury, is that we do it in a way that ensures the environment, which ensures those who are going to implement it, and ensures the population. When I get the quality assurance, which I think should be just around the corner, I will of course come back to Stortinget as soon as possible after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e540	We move on to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e543	My question goes to Minister of Fisheries and Coast Berg-Hansen. One of my first meetings with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the autumn of 2009 was the annual official dinner of the nutrition committee with the Council of State there. During the professional introduction to this table we were presented with statistics on Norwegian food production. Here the value of Norwegian seafood production was omitted. This was, of course, stated, and the bureaucratic answer was that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food did not include Norwegian seafood when statistics on Norwegian food production were compiled. In the nutrition committee we eat in fine company, and a few weeks later we were at official dinner with the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. In the welcome speech, the Council of State could announce that the Norwegian production of seafood was now recognised in the statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food when they presented figures for Norwegian food production. The undersigned and the Council of State agreed that this should be the case. Therefore, it is with wonder that I have received the long-awaited agricultural message from the Council of State Breck. Here we say a lot about Norwegian food production – that's not it. Yes, even Norwegian seafood is mentioned in rosy order, reasonable enough – reasonable enough. It is when you come to the concept of self-sufficiency that I am a bit in a hurry, because according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Norway has a self-sufficiency rate of less than 40 p.p., and the government has as its goal a self-sufficiency rate of 50 p.p. Now this council is well-known with Norwegian seafood production in both volume and value. The truth is, looking at Norwegian raw materials, they make up more than 80 pst. of Norwegian consumption. I have a small question for the Council of State: isn't it a paradox that we are using a definition of self-sufficiency that leaves Norwegian seafood out, all the time the Council of State's vision is that Norway is going to be the world's leading maritime nation? Is it not then that we should admit to ourselves that it is possible to feed on sea food?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e557	With regard to the agricultural communication, I expect that there will be plenty of opportunity for the representative, Bakke-Jensen, to discuss it with the Minister of Agriculture and Food – even later today, we will probably have a joint discussion of the budget. Then it's quite obvious that we have food available in large quantities – we actually have so much seafood to over 95 pst. It has to be exported in order not to feed the Norwegian population. I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture and Food that we must have a complementary diet. That means we have to produce things as well. I don't think the Norwegian population – although I eat a lot of seafood – means that seafood alone is enough to cover an entire diet, even in these lubricating hours. I'm working on facilitating more of the Nordics getting acquainted with the food taxes we have in the sea. There are clearly both nutritional and health reasons — even lifestyle reasons — for people to eat more seafood. That's what I work for every single day, and it's an area that I'm going to get into thoroughly the big message that I'm now working on. Now I have not read the agricultural message from perm to perm, but I do not ignore the fact that it also says that we will come back stronger with the mention of the seafood in the message that the government will provide in the seafood sector. So it's doing a lot of good on both sea and land to both increase the self-storage rate and produce Norwegian food. It deserves Norwegian consumers. Last weekend, I and the Minister of Agriculture and Food attended the same event, the Norwegian Meal, where we were presented the best from both sea and country, and I think all Norwegian food producers have a lot to pick up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e568	I have no doubt that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast is able to get a meal of fresh fish without roasted butter – I don't think that's the problem. But as for the national bet, I'd like to go a little further. There is a national food production strategy called ‘Taste of Norway’. Seafood is mentioned once, and it is stated in a chapter that better market access for Norwegian seafood needs to be provided. So there you're very focused on getting this seafood out of the country. In addition, we have something called the ‘Healthy Quality System in Norwegian Food Production’ – there are 96 pages published by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Seafood is not mentioned at all. I want to erase this a little bit further and ask the council if she is satisfied with what is clearly an imbalance in the way you speak meat, cheese and dairy products, versus Norwegian seafood like cod, salmon, crab, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e579	There are many strategies to make the Norwegian population eat as healthy food as possible and as good food — quality food from Norway — as possible. I have several of them. One is what we do in relation to children and young people, who are called Fish Pretenses. It's a collaboration with the Fish Exports Committee, which is now soon changing the name of Norway's sea wire, working in relation to children and young people and giving them good dietary habits. Then we're going to have to provide diet advice at regular intervals. There must be nice reading for the seafood sector. The biggest strategy is no matter who I'm talking about every time I have a chance: Norway — the world's leading maritime nation. We will come back to it in depth in the message that I am now working on, but it's about the fact that the Norwegian seafood sector needs to be even better equipped, so that Norwegian consumers actually get the quality products that the sea can provide. There are positive things happening, but it's also clearly a potential to do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e586	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e589	I think we should call a spade a spade. The agricultural sector has in many ways combined the term ‘food’ and the ‘couple’ in relation to the degree of self-sufficiency. The agricultural sector has shown a self-interest in producing it as if we had a low level of self-sufficiency compared to the desire to have more agricultural production. For the Council of State it must be a challenge, because agriculture also runs its interests in relation, for example, to: this with customs duties, i.e. customs protection in relation to imports of agricultural products, while maritime food industry is interested in maximum free market access, etc. Then I think it must be in place that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is setting an example in the matter of seafood as food. When Norway exports 38 million lunches out of the country every day, how can we talk about a self-sufficiency rate of some forty percent in this country? We're so self-sufficient that we can eat fish for it sticks out of our ears. How will the Council of State mark seafood as food and as an important part of the diet?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e594	The representative is probably quite right in that we can actually eat seafood to it sucks out of absolutely everyone... [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e599	Harald T. Nesvik – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e602	It's nice to hear that the government has a lot of strategies, but it's time to start working on a common strategy. That's what the goal here is. Obviously, there's a little bit of a symbol effect here, too. When the state councils got new titles, we got a fisheries and coastal minister, but for some remarkable reason we got an agricultural and food minister. As regards the production of food in this country, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is exceeding the Minister for Food — I refer to what was said about 38 million meals. My question to the Council of State is that in the extension of this, the government has developed a fresh fish strategy, but we have no strategies related to what is the largest volume – except on the farming side, of course – namely frozen fish. There we have almost a strategy, or a policy, that makes it more profitable to send frozen fish to China, fillet it, and then it comes back to Norway to be sold in Norwegian stores. My question to the Council of State is this: Do you have a common strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e612	When it comes to awarding these titles, it was in a government that I do not ignore that the party to the representative Nesvik would have liked to have been part of. These titles were awarded before Stoltenberg II, at least. I'm not so busy with titles, I'm actually concerned with content, and there's no doubt that I'm the maritime food minister. It's a title I like to use, although it's not the formal title. In terms of strategy related to actual conditions: we have a fresh fish strategy that I'm filling in with new content in these days. We might come back to that in the budget debate. But in this context, I have also contacted the research community to see if we can look at technology development, linked to the fact that there is actually quite a lot of frozen fish being landed – see what we can do to compete with the Chinese to produce more of it. Today it goes to saltfish and rock fish. That's good, but we can produce even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e619	So the oral question procedure is over. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e657	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e668	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its constructive and intriguing work on the budgetary position as well as the amendments to which the Committee has put forward and which are now being discussed. The budgetary position is good, and I think it most likely will contribute to a good and positive development in business, even for 2012, even though the future view is extremely difficult to define. I believe that budget setting also ensures the values of continued safe and good use of that nature, and the natural resources, can contribute to continued good value creation in Norway. The framework for this has been integrated into an economically sound and sound budget. One of our main objectives is to secure work for everyone. It's about security of income, about value creation, about profit, about tax and distribution. It's about well-being and the opportunities to live a good life. I have a simple confession: we have a much better starting point, and a much better basis, to meet the future than all, most of them. I guess most people in this room will join this confession. With some exceptions, there is broad support – a good collection – in the budgetary position on the government’s industrial policy. That's a good starting point. The objective of industrial policy is to facilitate good value creation, profitable and competitive enterprises and forward-looking jobs across the country. We shall do so at a time when large parts of Europe are shaken by economic times of crisis. The situation suggests that we have to sit in front of the chair, observe the details of how business is affected, and how the crisis develops out there, and, if necessary, put in proper action in time. We have the muscles, we have the will, and we have the ability. We've shown that in the past, and that's also the majority to be able to turn around quickly. That should be a good starting point for 2012. Nutrition policy is a broad field. It's about a whole in society and the ability of society to create values. We've been doing great for the last 20 years. We have had a value creation that has been higher in the mainland economy of Norway than in the United States, clearly above the growth of the OECD, and Norway now has the highest value creation in Europe, with the exception of Luxembourg. We have the lowest unemployment rate and the highest employment rate, in addition to being able to bear costs of about 50 pst. higher than our competitors. It's a fantastic result, but it also requires care. The most important question is, what is the basis for our good situation? I think there are three elements it's important to focus on. The first is the peoples and the knowledge — and the willingness to produce goods and services smartly and efficiently, so that we have a high level of production. The knowledge society is about having a education system in which everyone participates on the same footing. The fact that the children are in the same classroom, I think, is very important when we transfer it to the cooperative force in the business world. The second element is that we have to manage our natural resources in a way that serves society and builds up under a total value creation. There has been a political struggle in the last decades between the right and the left in Norwegian politics. The third is the importance of the organisation of responsible workers in a strong trade union movement as an equivalent party to employers. It is, in my opinion, an under-communicated success factor in the Norwegian model, which must not be distorted in the future in relation to the creative power. Those who don't understand these three elements and the meaning of them, I don't think they understand the reason for the creative power that, after all, is in Norwegian society. If any of this is broken down, then some of the creative power is also broken down, my assessment is related to it. It is a recognition that through the three elements there is a rather sharp, clear and political distinction between the left-hand side – the Labour Party – on one side and the right-hand parts on the other. We will thus develop and use human inequalities in a pooling of creativity, exploiting natural resources for the benefit of value creation and future-oriented jobs – not least building on the Norwegian model, where the balance between employees and employers is crucial. Then I noticed that the Progress Party called for an industrial policy message. I'd like to be part of this message, but I think it would be difficult to make an industrial policy with the starting point of the Progress Party, where they actually distance themselves from the three elements plus a secure economic policy. So it's hard to imagine how this was to be shaped with the starting point of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e703	Firstly, I fully agree with the chairman of the Committee that Norway is in a unique position, because our natural resources make us in a unique position. We have to make use of that. But as I said earlier here today, it's important that we use it at times when things are going well, and when we're in a unique situation, we also use it to build the future. An industrial message is just in place in such a context. But I'm not going to ask that question to the representative of Aasland. My question to Aasland is: we have now had a budgetary round in the Committee, and there is a very large consensus. But when we look at the outside, the danger signals also become stronger and stronger for the export industry. It also shows the report from the 4/2011 Economic Review, from the NHO. Despite that, the government does not move on a single penny in this budget after it has arrived in Stortinget, even though the Prime Minister and others have said it looks darker in the horizon. My question to the chairman of the committee is this: how much has been transferred to the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e712	First of all, I am very pleased that the representative Nesvik agrees with me that Norway has a unique position. This position has been created not least by the policy that has been pursued in the last six years, where a secure economic platform for the development of business has been an important foundation, while focusing on industry and industry's framework conditions, not least in the light of long-term power contracts. One year ago, when this room dealt with the budget of the Business Committee, a long-term power contract was concluded more than ten years ago by Statkraft. In this year they have entered into a number of new power contracts. It also tells of the willingness of this government and this majority to meet the industry in key arenas. Then the goal is not to move as much money as possible into the budget that has been provided. The aim is to provide the best possible forward-looking budget when it is presented, building on predictability and security to enable business to grow in the future. That is what this government has done, and that is also what the majority of the Business Committee joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e721	It is strange to say, in the extension of what the chairman of the committee says here, that one must continue within that framework and, in particular, within that predictability. It is strange then that the state budget reverses the changes that were made to the rules on permitting. You don't fill the seed funds, you don't do anything about the TaxFUNN, you don't do anything about the BIA system – in addition, we actually see that while a number of industrial jobs are being laid down, the government sits still and looks at. I fully understand that you should not be able to intervene in the individual enterprise and the decisions that are taken, but what I miss – and that is why it was the starting point for an industry announcement – is precisely building the future. Although the representative of Aasland may disagree with that, it may be that other parties in this room and other people may also have ideas for the government. In fact, the councils were open to it. Is the representative of Aasland still equally locked?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e728	I'm open too much, and the government is going to put forward a number of strategies and a number of messages in just the next six months, which are just underpinning the creativity and opportunities to develop business in Norway. I look forward to the processing of those messages, and I look forward to the further discussions. Clearly, with regard to the situation of our cyclically sensitive industrial workplaces, we are following the situation very closely. There is no doubt that the situation is extremely serious. When Europe, as our largest market, ‘leads’, we must be extremely attentive and, if necessary, take action, if that is what turns out to be right. The most important foundation is in any case to conduct a responsible, good and secure economic policy that does not risk interest rates and interest rates. That would be the biggest setback for the Norwegian industry if that were to happen. Other: Tax FUNN continues, BIA continues, yes, but it is now open to announce projects for SEK 70 million and a guardian of the situation very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e737	The representative of Aasland made a very general approach to the budget, with all the views on it. I think that's good for the committee's chairman. He was talking about school, he was talking about natural resources, and he was talking about the union as an important contribution to Norwegian value creation. Whether the role of the trade union is a somewhat under-communicated success factor in Norwegian business, I really doubt, sometimes it seems to me that it is relatively over-communicated. But I want to ask Aasland the same question that we discussed with the Minister of Industry here earlier today. After all, the Prime Minister has been concerned that the crisis is going to hit the Norwegian export industry. Aasland has visited itself, I see, woodworking companies affected by this. What long-term measures does the chairman of the committee think of the government, in order to counteract some of the negative developments we probably now see only the beginning of?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e744	First of all, I believe that it is very important that we now have a close dialogue with the industry that is most cyclically sensitive. I think it is absolutely necessary that, when we are presented with a big message to the spring on the instruments and how they should be set up, we take a discussion and look at the possibilities for the instruments to be able – let's say – to lubricate the industry and the cyclical industries in a perhaps better way than today. I believe that such assessments are very important, while one maintains the broad lines of Norwegian policy. My starting point for having a general input into the report is that in this Chamber there is also a great deal of support through the budgetary positions we are discussing today to the policy areas and proposals that the government is initially proposing. There will be more marginal outcomes and, in principle, a desire for more of the government's policies where one proposes changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e749	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e753	First of all, let us state that Norway is a good country to live in. We have an up-and-coming business, we have good employment, and we have all the prerequisites to be able to achieve this in the years to come. If we are to achieve this, it is important that we – in the policy design we are doing – catch up with the signals that come early in a phase, so that we do not constantly fall behind. It's good to come with packages when the crisis is a fact, to try to get out of it, but the best we can do is to be in the forefront and make sure that the crisis doesn't occur, and that you're as rusted out for what's coming. Times have actually changed, even after this budget was presented. The Prime Minister himself, together with other members of the government parties, has been out there warning us of what can happen to us, how the financial crisis we now see, among other things. in Europe, Norway can also be taken over. That is a little strange: this does not seem to have been achieved from the time when the budget was presented to the budget of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, until now, because it has been decided to do nothing but the government itself put forward in its draft budget. The Councils of State have earlier today, among other things: whether or not some others have unaccountable budgets. I think that's very strange, because then I don't think the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade could have read, among other things. The budget of the Progress Party. So for the current year, the State budget – and we are talking about the entire state budget – is going to pass through the expenditure page 1 000 billion. kr. The nominal costs are approximately: 350 B.C.E. kr. On the expenditure side, the difference between the government's use of money and the Progress Party's use of money is 1 billion. NOK 1 billion. Then it's a little strange that it's at the sum of the Norwegian economy that stands and falls. I think most people realize that that's not the case. In fact, the Progress Party believes that the government's draft budget does not address the challenges ahead. It's time we got a more forward-looking business policy. Instead of just taking the challenges as they come, we have to make sure to be in the forefront. Unfortunately, we now see that feedback from business shows a much greater degree of pessimism only now in the last quarter than in the previous quarter. The NHO's quarterly report for the fourth quarter shows that one in 10 Norwegian companies one quarter ago said they had plans for either cancellations or cancellations, and in the last quarter this figure is one in four. Then it's actually a government task to make sure to counteract this by providing solutions. It is strange that the government does not take into account the fact that, in terms of framework conditions, we are talking about research and development funds and being able to manage these funds more internally in the companies. In fact, when the Committee's chairman, in line with those who are signed, refers to the continuation of the tax FUNN, which is passed on to the BIA, does nothing about filling seed funds, it is shown that you are not willing to go further – you just want to try to defend the existing one, and this happens at a time when the expenditure side of the state budget is 1 000 billion. kr. The councils have told us a number of times about their objectives – when they finally came – about how much simplification would come, and what was said, was probably about. 10 B.C.E. kr by the end of 2015. The Progress Party has repeatedly said that this is urgent, because this affects our competitiveness, affecting in particular the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to use resources and employees for what they are meant to create activities and revenues in order to secure jobs. I'm glad the Council finally made a number. I think that number is too low; you should have bigger ambitions than that. But if we ignore what has to do with the audit obligation and the share capital – what has been added? Well, there's an Internet page where you can make recordings. So the government has been in office for more than six years, and with regard to the audit obligation and the share capital, this proposal is the one that the opposition – both the Progress Party and the Right – has repeatedly promoted, before the government finally found out about it. The Progress Party has also this time promoted a number of simplification proposals, which I hope will come soon. It's on mandatory custody, there's a significant improvement in ALTINN II solutions, and there's more interconnection and reporting to make it easier for business. Here are a number of things that have to be taken into account. The Council of State itself has announced that something will happen in connection with the instrument and the evaluation there. I hope that the Council of State can authorise the representatives of the government parties here in the Chamber to vote in favour of the proposal that the evaluation of Innovation Norway – i.e. the instrument – and SIVA should take place in the first half of 2012. It is a little strange that while the Council of State itself has shown good initiative, and the Council of State itself finally came to the conclusion that this evaluation should come as a matter of its own, the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget are afraid to say that this will come in the first half of 2012. I hope that the Council of State can say a little about it when he will later make his statement. In the case of research and development — not least in own enterprises, in-house research — it is very important for many to be able to face the future. This is true in the area of seafood production — precisely by being able to use own resources to research more to develop methods that make it more efficient in filet production, among other things, which makes it more profitable to produce this in Norway, rather than to pick up fish, send it to China, get it fileted there and get it back. We can never solve what is related to the cost of work, but we can find the technological solutions that make this more profitable in Norway. It's also smart in an environmental perspective, which it's so modern to talk about in all things. What is also a somewhat dangerous signal is linked to the employment of seafarers. Unfortunately, we see a decrease now linked to the net number of employees who are being included in the so-called net pay scheme – which is not a net pay scheme, but a reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers, all the time we have a ceiling of 198 000, which has remained silent since 2008. Then there is reason to hope that the government will soon ensure that at least the price and salary adjustments are adjusted and raised. However, the Progress Party – and has already proposed – would prefer to ensure that a net pay regime is legalised. As far as fisheries are concerned, I would just like to say the following: I am surprised that the government is once again putting a stop to the budget for the award of new concessions and not least to extend the maximum authorised biomass in installations because nothing has been put into the budget in that context. The Progress Party has put forward proposals and hopes that the government will ensure – as the loop situation in given regions is controlled, and not least in the context of the escape situation – that other areas and regions can also increase their biomass production beyond what is currently the case. Finally, I would just like to mention the suggestions included in the setting. In addition, the Progress Party will vote in favour of the Right-wing proposal published on the table. I would also like to come back later to other proposals from the Left which the Progress Party will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e791	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e796	I noticed that the representative Harald T. Nesvik was not in one word in his post either the Fisheries Directorate or the Executive Grant, which is important for the reception situation along the coast. That is not very strange, because there is no good news in the budget of the Progress Party. Then how does the representative of Nesvik defend that they will cut $35 million? kr, which will affect important tasks for which the Progress Party is committed to continuing to be carried out by the Directorate-General for Fisheries? It has been found that the leadership grant is very important to maintain activity along the coast. Why does the Progress Party not want to continue this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e803	First of all, the reason I didn't get into it in my post was that I didn't have time. I could have talked at least 10 more minutes about this budget. The reason why we want to do that is that we have actually improved the tax regime for these companies also in the area of seafood, which means that the lead grant should be an agreement between those who deliver the fish and any buyer. In fact, these costs should be allocated on the basis of this and not separate State grants, but rather better framework conditions for the enterprises concerned – as the Progress Party actually improves the business tax regime in its budget by 2.8 billion. kr in addition to the government budget. This gives precisely these companies the backbone of being able to bear these costs themselves. That's why we've done it. In addition, the representative may not have read his own State budget. It just says from the ministry that the scheme now needs to be evaluated because it has not worked completely the way you thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e812	One of the most important things we can do to promote the future development of a regional business is to lubricate good cooperation between enterprises and the regional research and competence environment. The regional research funds have been a very important tool to promote good and research-based cooperation between regional business and the regional environment of competence, universities and universities. Then I'm wondering if the Progress Party will shut down these research funds? Normally, the Progress Party is very concerned that we are going to have regional authority and regional responsibility, and here, therefore, a responsibility from the region and to the central body. It seems to me that I'm a little special in the rhetorical Progress Party about moving power out into the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e819	It is obvious that the representative has read the budget very badly. The Progress Party is just saying that the priorities are the in-house ones. We have improved the TaxFUNN scheme, we have improved the BIA scheme, and we provide tax relief for companies that allow them to spend money on research themselves. We are increasing in research in the vast majority of areas. Within the Ministry of Knowledge’s budget is what has to do with research and development — that’s where the main issue lies. In addition, we have said the following: that the distance to the nearest neighbour or that given other criteria is what will determine whether or not you are being triggered by research and innovation funds, we believe is wrong. It is the idea and the possibility of commercialisation that should be the most important, not your residence address – as SV obviously believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e826	The Party is concerned with increasing imports of agricultural products and proposes to introduce zero duty on imports of goods from all developing countries on the OECD list. We disagree on this. The government's policy is a zero-dollar scheme for the world's 64 poorest countries. My question to the Progress Party is: What consequences will the proposals of the Progress Party have for the Norwegian food industry? And what action will the Progress Party take to convert Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry as a result of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e833	Firstly, it will have a very positive effect on Norwegian consumers, i.e. Norwegian citizens, for whom both the undersigned and the representative Nordahl are set to be ombudsmen, and for whom this will be a significant improvement. In addition, there is a situation for those countries that are struggling to achieve their own business. It's better that we deal with a lot of countries than we give passive assistance, which means they never get out of the way they're in. Furthermore, this will result in an increased product range in our stores. In addition, I think it will open up great opportunities for Norwegian business. We will be able to take in more raw materials for production in our own food industry, and I am also convinced that Norwegian consumers will appreciate good foreign products at good prices – I think that is what we are set to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e843	Of course, in the broad picture, I agree with the chairman of the committee that a lot is going well in this country. But I think we have to be careful about getting stuck in descriptions that we have it so good, that things work, so we don't do anything about what's coming. I have to say, as I said earlier here today, that I share the Prime Minister's concern that what is happening out there in the world is also going to turn into Norway, because the foundation of the welfare society we have is the creation of value that is taking place around the country's small and large businesses. That's what we're doing in industrial policy. We need budgets that can create freedom and enthusiasm about business, so that people want to invest and create jobs, businesses and values. It is a very central element of the welfare society that we get to the creation of value in the private sector, and therefore the budget must contain both strategies and instruments for how this can be done – especially now that we see that developments outside need, and we see single examples of firms that are struggling. It's time after the budget was provided with full evidence, the Prime Minister's statement of a setback – these prophecies – is about to come true. Even the LO has decided that there is concern and that action needs to be taken. In our right-hand alternative budget, we have tried to boost growth in the private sector. It seems weak, and therefore we have tried to look at how to strengthen competitiveness. Labour costs in Norway are now 50 pst. over our trading partners. The large difference has mainly occurred in the last five to six years. It's limited what we can take out into increasing productivity. Private sector growth is stagnating and falling, and the public sector is growing in employment. With the demographic development we have, the increase in productivity and growth will not be enough to maintain well-being in the future. We propose in our budget the competitiveness of industry significantly improved by reducing the wealth tax – we would like to remove it, we will do so later – and we will increase the write-off of initial investment. We have put a lot of emphasis on the development of knowledge and research in the budget. Key to businesses are the BIA schemes, the Seed Funds and, above all, increased loan opportunities in the innovation loan schemes. In the case of the seed funds, the Committee has been united on several occasions to seek new capital for the funds, which has been notified as far as possible empty. It is a pity that the Committee has not been able to influence the Council of State and the Government more strongly in order to achieve this, which is vitally important throughout the country for new innovation to start. By contrast, Investinor in Trondheim has received 1.5 billion. kr and can go into projects – it is excellent. But I hope that the opportunity, on the part of the government, to look at the mandate of the Investinor could be extended. It's e.g. not on health/life science businesses, and there is also a question of whether to look at the strategies for what the company invests in. I have to say that going into traditional industries in competition with existing businesses, without any innovation – innovation – in it, other than taking over what is, and putting it together, I question it. The maritime industry with shipping and oil and gas activities is our main export area. Therefore, good funding offers are important to compete on the world market. It has been exported by export companies through export finance. The treatment in the harvest we know, we'll get back to it. This has created a completely unnecessary uncertainty in very many of the maritime cluster. Still, at present, the arrangement is not up and running as it was, and as promised by the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister of the press conference on 18 November. The dialogue with the company seems to have been deficient. The company – as I understand it – announced an hour before things had to change. There has been no exemplary handling. The question is whether it was impossible to do anything with the exceptions, or whether you simply did not want it. As in the previous budget, research has been treated in a vote. The Research Council was ready in its opinion. This year's budget does not enable the Research Council to operate for Norwegian industry beyond what it has today, they said in a press release. It is precisely at times like this that we should have increases in research. On the right, the Research Fund will continue and escalate the allocation to invest in future growth and value creation. Innovation is important. Therefore, it is good that the Stortinget should finally discuss the role of Innovation Norway. Significant weaknesses have been identified – rightly so. Therefore, I look forward to the announcement of this now coming to Stortinget, so that the resources can be used as optimally as possible. It is not that all innovation should be initiated by the state. It's in the existing companies that the most innovation happens. In that case, existing enterprises must be able to do so, and property taxes and the reduction of the taxation of owners are incredibly important for jobs. A small enterprise that pays a property tax each year on its unsold goods in stock or on machinery that does not produce profits to its owners has a heavy backpack to carry, and it provides little inspiration and also little money for initial investment and innovation. In the area of simplification, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on having finally set a target. It's a good start, but it's late, and we're going to follow the operations with the arctic eyes in the future. I think the beginning of the new year will be in the agricultural sign of the treatment of the agricultural message. As you can see, there has been an interesting play now at the end of the old year, where the lack of butter has been in the spotlight. You can minimize that, but it puts the spotlight on important systems that don't work under special circumstances. It also puts, for consumers, the spotlight on a trans-regulated industry, where most are increasingly uncertain about both its purpose and its functioning, and whether it is adapted to a modern, globalised world of consumption. On the right, an agricultural sector, characterised by belief in the future, willingness to change, innovation and a device, not least, of government subsidies – and they are significant – that contribute to an optimal level of production, given our geographical and climatic conditions. I think Norwegian agriculture doesn't just need pious desires and more of the same, which in fact quite a few have been dissatisfied with and have intended to change on. It is time for concrete measures. It is not enough just to set out a number of objectives without instruments. It's not just us who criticize this. When asked about Right-wing solutions, there is a great deal of a different arrangement of subsidies, but also an increase in investment capacity, which is the demand for agriculture. Looking at the Right's budget, there will be considerable industrial intervention, on the tax side, which will increase the ability to invest significantly. The industry has asked for 15 billion. DKK over 10 years. If you just removed the property tax -- we don't do that in our alternative now -- it would actually mean 1.3 billion. kr every one year. So tax is not insignificant for any industry, nor for agriculture. I want to end by coming back to the committee leader, who in his speech spoke about the pillars that were important, that is, around school, natural resources and the strong trade movement. I think there are several more pillars that are important for Norwegian business, not least how to deal with business itself – the owners, the investors, provide them with opportunities that stimulate them to do something, that they can make the investments, that they can do it. Then, on the other hand, you also have to stimulate people to take a job, to make it pay to work – not only to create jobs, but also to take a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e887	I am very pleased that the representative Fleet mainly shares my opinion that a lot is going well in Norway. After all, we are ranked the world's sixth best country to do business after the World Bank's ranking. I have also observed that very many in the business community choose to refer to Norway as a very good country to do business. At the same time, I have registered that the representative Fleet has recently walked around as a very concerned person – about the development of Norwegian business and government policy. I hope that in the next year it will solve itself. I want to challenge the fleet to bring forward one thing in the setting we are currently dealing with, which basically gives greater reason for optimism for Norwegian business than what was the government's starting point. Finally, I would like to stress that I did not highlight the trade movement, I stressed the balance between the trade movement and the employers. I think that's a great reason after Monica Mæland, a well-known Right-Representative, said on the Småting that the Right is against everything LO is for. Does the Fleet support that vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e896	There were a lot of questions here. I pick some. The representative must allow me to do that. No, I have not gone around with any of my concerns, but I have also not been at the forefront of the hoarding. I'll admit that. When the representative of Aasland asks me to draw out something that gives greater cause for optimism through our budget – because I assume that's what he meant, and what he asked for – there are a lot of things. This is about the taxes on wealth, about our investment in road investments, about our investment in knowledge, about our investment in research. This applies not only to the taxes on wealth, but also to reductions in the tax on labour. We have a number of measures that we know will stimulate more growth, and that is what is important in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e905	I have a little problem seeing what the new right course is in business policy, and what a position they have in some cases. I notice that the representative did not tick the word ‘nutritional neutrality’ in his post. It was a foundation when they put in government. Right is in Investinor's comments that companies should act with strict industry neutrality. But at the same time, the Right will expand, not neutralise the mandate of the Investinor, so that particular leading industries are not excluded, especially health and life-science. It's a little hard to know if Right still wants a business-neutral policy, or if they're actually some of the workers' party. The representative of the fleet is asked another question, because he did not answer the representative of Aasland: does the representative support the fleet of Monica Mæland, who says they are for everything LO is against?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e914	In the case of nutrition neutrality, I find it strange to ask for it in the right-hand position. We were not the ones who raised business neutrality into Norwegian political discussion. It was Jens Stoltenberg who did it in his time. The concept of industry neutrality is not found in our attitude. So to this – let's say – the misunderstanding that the representative has about the Investinor comment. We have joined in what the Committee has written in many ways, but we have criticised the fact that there is no extension of the mandate, because we think this is a full opportunity to do so. We also believe that the strategy should be looked at, so that there is no conflict with existing competing companies that do not represent anything new. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e921	Some nutritionists from the Right have suggested that it is necessary to abandon the climate agreement in order to pursue a good industrial policy in Norway. On the other hand, we have seen central representatives from the Right who say very clearly that the Right is firmly committed to the climate agreement and that industrial policy must adapt to it. Can the representative Fleet clarify where the Right actually stands in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e926	I can make that clear. The right is on the climate agreement that we have signed with a number of other parties in the Stortinget. There's no change in it. So there's a continuous discussion about the world around it changing, so there's parts of it that you have to evaluate in other ways. I think that's a completely natural discussion in a party. I notice that this way of discussing uses all the parties in the government when they discuss between themselves and are tearing apart, not only about the settlement that lies in the Storting, but about what is or is going to be the government's policy. It's a lot more critical than watching right-wing developments and seeing the world change. Unlike maybe SV, it's the way to the Right that if the world changes, we change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e933	Before the change of line is over, or perhaps after, the President assumes that the representative Fleet will take up proposal No. Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e936	I would like to address our proposal. That's a good suggestion, and I'll take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e941	Then the representative Svein Fletten has taken up the proposal he has referred to. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e946	Through a responsible economic policy and an active industrial policy, Norway has avoided a number of the problems facing many EU countries during these difficult times. But we have an open economy, and we expect that the problems in Europe will also reach Norway. We are now seeing a trend towards a two-way split in the Norwegian export industry. The oil-related industry has very good order entry. This order intake is so good, and the prospects are so good for the oil industry that they have problems getting enough labour, and the industry imports engineers and technologists from abroad in a big way. In other industries, we see that businesses need to reduce activity and go to lay-offs and lay-offs. This is an imbalance that can lead to a one-sided and unfortunate industrial structure in the longer term. Therefore, it is very important to follow these developments closely and pursue an active industrial policy in line with what the government proposes, which ensures that we do not get an additional imbalance in Norwegian business, where the oil sector becomes too dominant and others have problems obtaining the necessary labour at a reasonable cost level. If we're going to have something to live on after oil, it's important, as many have done, to facilitate new businesses. The opposition likes to blackmail Norwegian businesses and, not least, the ability to facilitate new businesses, but as it has been mentioned before today, the World Bank has pointed out that the climate in Norway for setting up businesses is very good, and there is hardly any country in the world where business start-ups are easier and more organised than in Norway. One of the reasons why Norwegian industry has managed well is that companies have invested heavily in technology and environmental measures. The market for eco-innovation is growing, but it is a demanding market, and the market is taking relatively high risks. The government has therefore established an eco-innovation programme which has become very popular among many enterprises and where there is a large application for the funds that have been consulted. It is nice to record that a Joint Committee sees the need to further develop this good environmental technology scheme. Norwegian business is facing major challenges related to the climate challenges I addressed in the line change with the Fleet. But climate and environment can also create competitive advantages and new markets, not just problems. If we are to meet these challenges, we need to further develop the good cooperation we have between industry and the state, and we need to establish appropriate support mechanisms for the necessary conversion to achieve the climate targets in a way that also strengthens business. We are facing the climate crisis and the financial crisis, but we should not forget that the global food situation poses major challenges. According to the UN, global food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050. In this perspective, it is important to take care of the cultivated land we have here in the country. We have to get better at protecting the food soil when we're building roads and shopping centers. But it's just as important to prevent growing land from being set up. In many places, we have a topography that doesn't facilitate big business. If we are to maintain the area and real self-sufficiency, we must take care of the small and medium-sized uses in the districts. In addition, we need to be better equipped to use roughage and pasturage to replace imported power feed. An active and varied agriculture also provides the basis for other activities in the countryside. If agriculture goes away, many communities will experience depopulation. With the agricultural policy proposed by the Right and the Progress Party, many rural areas will be depopulated. In addition to the drastic cuts in transfers, these batches will reduce import protection. With such a policy, there will hardly be agriculture in some countries, nor in my country, West Agder. Seafood industries are important export industries. They're important for the employment along our long-distance coast. SV will have a varied fishing fleet and a fair distribution of resources to benefit fisheries-dependent coastal communities. We must ensure local further processing and take care of the locally anchored operators in the fishing industry. Marine farming is a young industry that has had a huge increase, and it has created a number of sustainability challenges. In the summer, the Marine Research Institute reported on sustainability challenges for all states, from Rogaland to Finnmark. This is especially true of salmontus and the genetic impact of the wild species. This is a small, sustainable situation. We have to expect the industry itself to take a great responsibility for correcting this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e971	The representative Holmelid is unusually concerned with the climate and climate settlement, and he had in a previous line change here a kick to the Right. Right-wing representatives and the right-wing party have allowed themselves to discuss the framework of the climate agreement concluded in Stortinget. I will repeat that the Right is on the climate agreement that has been concluded. In addition, we allow ourselves to dangle around it, raise issues and debate them as the framework changes. Climate policy and challenges depend on many things, including: international negotiations. The international financial crisis we are seeing today will be very crucial for our ability to tackle climate challenges in the future. My question to the representative is: does Holmelid see it as a democratic problem that politicians allow themselves to discuss things, even if a settlement has been made in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e978	I have to say I'm very pleased with the question I'm now getting from the right. First, they remove an insecurity that has doctors there for a while, that is, if they stand firm on the climate agreement. Secondly, I am very happy that the Right is willing to share in discussing how we should best meet the climate agreement. I have worked so long in the industry that I know that having an offensive attitude to the environmental problems that we had in the 1980s, and to the climate problems that we are now facing after the millennium, is the best way we can build a long-term and strong industry. So I'm very happy that the Right will be involved in a discussion about how we're going to build industry while we're going to achieve the climate measures we've seen. I really like the democratic discussion that Right wants to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e985	Right-wing representatives have assured us nine times in this room this autumn that we are on the climate agreement. So to the extent that it's created uncertainty, it's actually so that SV, although they're a small party with not too many members, has repeatedly managed to doubt the Right setting of the conciliation and created this uncertainty. So to another theme. Holmelid had in his post some lines of fair distribution. The coastal fishing fleet is subject to a regime called the Structural Scheme, which regulates the number of rights available to each vessel. This is a model that varies greatly, depending on how you get into the scheme, and depending on what kind of fisheries minister you've been subject to. It's actually like someone has six rights per ship, and some have only three rights. At least on paper, this seems pretty unfair. My question is whether Holmelid believes this meets SV's demands for justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e992	SV is busy, as I said in my post, that we should have a fair distribution of fish resources. SV is also concerned that we should allocate fishing resources in such a way that the coastal fleet has good working conditions, and we are concerned that the fish will be landed so that we can get jobs on land. When it comes to the details of the structural arrangements, I expect there will be plenty of opportunity to come back to when we get it to notify the maritime food message, which the minister has been in on here before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e999	There is no doubt that the agricultural policy that SV is trying to pursue is a bit more romantic than the other parties have – and in particular perhaps the Progress Party. It is clear that some farms and livestock farmers are characterised by the predatory policy that SV wants. There is no doubt that many people have to stop buffing, which is an important part of maintaining a use, because of a predatory policy that takes more care of the predators than the buffalo. Thus, it may be a good question to ask SV: How will they meet this and compensate for this to those who lose their job, who lose their livelihood, who lose the farm because of a party, SV, who wants a predatory policy that takes more care of predators than its users?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1008	When I heard the question, I began to wonder whether the Progress Party was involved in the predatory agreement, or whether the representative, who asked the question, has not followed up on the fact that the Progress Party was also involved in the predatory agreement. As far as I know, all the parties on the Stortinget are gathered about the predatory policies that are now being pursued. In addition, SV will arrange it so that we get good compensation arrangements for those who have to face problems related to predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1013	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1016	Since 2005, the government has been pursuing an active policy to secure the Norwegian economy and to secure Norwegian jobs. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and is designated as the sixth best country for industrial activity. There is good reason to recall this when we see what other challenges Europe is facing. A number of European countries now experience a critical economic situation: high unemployment, low economic growth and high government debt. Lower demand for goods and services affects Norwegian business. Strengthening the crown weakens the competitiveness of the exported industry. It endangers ownership and jobs. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to pursue a responsible economic policy, as the government proposes. The centre party will stress that it is very important for the government to follow the situation of the export-oriented part of Norwegian business very closely, as well as to be willing to take action to meet challenges, which we are likely to face in the coming period. In view of the international situation, the government has committed itself to a sober and tight government budget for 2012. From the centre party we are pleased that the red-green majority has chosen to bet on transportation. Strengthening infrastructure is essential in order to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. With this increase of 2.4 billion. The red-green majority delivers what has been promised in relation to the most ambitious transport plan that has ever been submitted. The centre party is pleased that the red-green government comes with tax cuts in agriculture, at a time when agriculture needs increased investment. A higher depreciation rate for farm buildings, tax exemptions for rural development funds and increased possibility of renting farm implements will provide 300 million. DKK in tax relief next year. The centre party is also satisfied that the red-green government is concerned with removing the food production fee. This will save the food industry 630 million. kr annually. The centre party also welcomes the continuation of the aid scheme for extracting raw material for the production of wood chips, as part of the government's bioenergy effort. Ensuring safe food for one's own population is very important in a world where one billion people are starving. Population growth means that world food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050. In Norway, food production needs to be increased by 20 pst. by 2030 to give birth to one million more Nordics. This is also the objective of the recent agricultural communication. In this debate, it is important to underline the political divisions between the Red-Green parties and the Right and the Advance Party. Let me remind you that the Right has proposed a cut in the agricultural agreement of about 1.9 billion. kr, and the Progress Party has proposed a cut of SEK 7.5 billion. kr and reduced import protection. This represents an income decrease of NOK 36 000 per year, respectively, and NOK 141 000 per year. For the industry, this would have dramatic consequences if it were to be put into practice. These cutbacks in support, combined with the other proposals, would centralise agriculture in Norway around the largest cities after a bankruptcy wave, while it would hardly be possible to maintain any agriculture in the rest of the country. It is not only the primary production that would have been affected, but also to a significant extent the processing, marketing and supplier of goods. The proposals from the Right on cuts in the agricultural agreement will involve a dramatic turnaround in relation to the positive income development achieved by the industry under the red-green government. The centre party has no faith that removing regulation and reducing transfers, as the Right and Advance Party advocates, will meet the challenges of the future and the need for increased food production — and living agriculture throughout the country. On the other hand, such a policy would weaken the farmer’s ability to earn income, thereby also weakening agriculture – and our ability to feed its own people. The centre party is engaged in economic development throughout the country. It is therefore very positive that the Red-Green Government has set the target of reducing the burden on Norwegian industry by 10 billion by the end of 2015. kr. This is an important step towards simplification, as the business community has long wanted. The government is undertaking important work in a number of areas of major importance to business. There is now a revision of the travel strategy, work is underway on its own mineral strategy and work is being done on its own maritime food notification. This shows that we have a government that is committed to facilitating business development across the country, at a time of economic turmoil in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1045	The centre batch has been a champion to maintain the fur animal nutrition. Before the message came, they went out and shouted and shouted for the fact that they had stored the fur - animal nutrition, something that the Progress Party was so happy to read. But in the agricultural message that came into place, there is nothing about saving this industry, and then it is likely that the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, with their funds, have had a positive impact on the reduction of fur animal nutrition. Otherwise, the message says that you should come back to Stortinget with a message. In other words, when the message comes, we are probably told that the fur industry is shut down. My question to the representative will then be as follows: When will the communication on the fur animal nutrition come? Can the representative guarantee that it will come in this period and not after the next major elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1053	The agricultural report says that the government will come back to Stortinget with this case as a matter of its own. At the same time, it is quite clear in the agricultural notification that the closure of the fur animal industry is not envisaged. From the centre party, we are adding up to a continuation of the fur animal nutrition, as we have said both before and after the notification was submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1058	Yesterday, on the Day Revy, we learned that the head of the Central Party, Navarsete State Council, was at Aass Brewery. She then announced that the centre party was to remove property taxes on working capital. She even said that there was a majority in the Storting to remove it. That is why she is giving the challenge to policymakers. My question is: When will the representative Lange Nordahl and the rest of the group of the Central Party follow up the initiative that their own leader, the Council of State Navarsete, is asking? I would like to remind you that the representatives of Lange Nordahl and the Group of the Party of European Socialists were active in voting a similar proposal during the financial debate 14 days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1065	The centre party has programmed that we are committed to removing property taxes on working capital. That's what our party leader followed up yesterday. The centre party is actively working in the government to get this in place. I have also registered that the Minister of Industry shares the opinion of the Centre Party, so we look forward to a large and important work in the government to get this in place. We are committed to meeting business, and we see that removing wealth taxes on working capital is important to strengthen the foundations of business throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1070	Double communication is a sport in which the Center Party is very good. Had it been an Olympic branch, I think you had had many Olympic medals. I'm not in doubt about that. I asked you a question in my first line. I did not get an answer. The same thing about you also applies to the Minister of Agriculture. I usually never get an answer to this question. I'll try again. After all, it's all Christmas, so you might be able to answer me, and especially fur nutrition needs that answer. I ask again the questions I asked, which you did not answer last time. Question 1: When does the communication on the fur animal nutrition come? Question 2: Can you guarantee that it will come during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1079	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1082	The Agriculture Communication is ready to give the Storting a separate case on the fur animal industry for treatment. The government will follow up on that. It will also follow up the Council of State when he is going to make contributions later today. And it's also clear that the central party's clear starting point is that fur animal nutrition is going to continue. It's an important industry, it's an important district industry. It is also important to include in this perspective that there is a domestic market for fur. I think the representative, Treldal, shares that view. Then it's important that we also fill that market with the production we have nationally. We know that industry has strengthened animal welfare over time. The industry has also been strengthened by legislation in recent times, and I am not in doubt – I believe that the representative of the Treldal shares the view – that animal welfare is far better in the fur industry here than it is in a number of other countries from which we import fur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1089	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1092	We have said this before in the Christian People's Party, and we would like to repeat it: we believe that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. Because we must not forget that it is the future value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. Increased investment in research and innovation are key success criteria for a value-creating business. Innovation is probably the main driver of the development of society. I believe that the draft budget is characterised by a lack of commitment to precise innovation and innovation. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed in its alternative budget to strengthen the User-driven Innovation Arena and Seed Funds and to invest in research and development contracts with a total of 60 million. kr and increase the appropriations for transport by about 800 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The furniture and interior industries employ 10,000 annual works and face strong competition from countries at a lower cost level. Therefore, it is important to facilitate innovation and innovation in enterprises. A significant investment in the furniture and interior industries can provide robust businesses and secure jobs. That's why the Christian People's Party proposed to grant $7 million in its alternative budget. kr for this purpose. So a few words about the farming industry, one of the strongest growing industries we have in Norway, and an important industry for Norway, which forms a large part of the value-added and coastal workplaces. The marine industry is a large export industry. Exports of salmon only this year, up to and including October, account for 24 billion. kr. Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that the Norwegian farming industry is world-leading in the environment. However, this requires long-term structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry. Mandatory environmental measures are essential to ensure the reputation of the farming industry and the potential for sustainable and profitable production in the long term and to preserve the wild and sea trout in Norway. There has been a significant development in closed rearing facilities. In a proposal earlier this year, the Christian People’s Party called for proposals for binding environmental measures that would significantly improve the environmental status of the farming industry by 2013 and for a plan to be presented for the transition to an environmentally sustainable farming industry with closed sea installations or alternative measures to achieve an equivalent level of safety by 2020. Famous farmed fish and the challenges with salmonmus for wild salmon fish show the need for comprehensive measures. Another important policy area for the Christian People's Party is the desire to build up under the active peasant to ensure active agriculture in all parts of the country. This is essential for maintaining the main features of the housing pattern and a living cultural landscape. A prerequisite for recruitment is that agriculture provides income to live on. It is therefore important to set a concrete income target and to give farmers income growth in line with other social groups. The Christian People's Party will facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and opportunities for different forms of cooperation. The budget proposes to increase the social security charge to 11.1 pst. against an increase in the agricultural deduction. This means that farmers with low entrepreneurial incomes will not be able to make full use of the agricultural deduction, resulting in even less use of the economy. I would also like to mention that the Food Authority, with the government's proposal, actually reduces its operating budget by more than 2 pst. The detection of poor control of fur animal nutrition, the challenges of food additives and the problems of lice in the farming industry make the cut incomprehensible the challenges to be addressed by the Food Safety Authority. That's why we proposed increasing the appropriations by 5 million. kr in addition to the government budget. Finally, I will address the proposal of the Christian People's Party alone. The Christian People's Party also supports the Left's proposal No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1118	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1123	I notice that the Christian People's Party has proposals in addition to the government's proposals in some areas, but otherwise I have noticed that the Christian People's Party is quite close to the red-green in agricultural policy – far from the Right and definitely miles away from the Progress Party. For us, this is exciting in terms of the future. What kind of connection can this lead to? It's not in the spirit of the Christian People's Party one day to bond with one day and the next to turn your back on, or perhaps even in the worst case to settle with another partner? Can the representative Andersen Eide answer me?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1130	We'll see if Andersen Eide can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1134	It's important to choose the right partner – that's absolutely right, and I'm for that. This question is repeatedly raised in the Christian People's Party. It is right, as the representative Haugen says, that in agricultural policy we are close to the government parties. But cooperation is not just about agricultural policy. If you look at the notes on the budget, you'll see that we're a typical center party. We can focus on the comments of the Right and the Advance Party in some policy areas and on the government parties in other areas. It tells us that we want to market and refer to our center policy. Therefore, it is difficult at least at this point to go out clearly with the choice of partner. We have to get back to that in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1139	The Gulf Stream and Tidal Waters represent an important natural advantage for the farming industry along our coast. In the comments on this matter, the Christian People's Party writes that they will have a transition to closed sea installations by 2020. Closed installations will require a great deal of electricity. My first question to Andersen Eide is: How will the Christian People's Party develop the necessary power capacity to meet this need? The second question is, why is the Christian People's Party more concerned with how the facilities are designed than with environmental barometers in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1146	The Christian People's Party has had a strong focus on the environmental aspect of this industry. We have said that we want to go for closed installations or alternative technical solutions. We've kind of not tied ourselves to one system. So for the power consumption: we had a visit from a Canadian company that showed that one could use the waste to produce electricity on the closed system for self-sufficiency. I think it's so much fun that happens in research, that we need to get knowledge of this, so that we can do this the best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1153	We'll probably come back to this with the need for power, because there's an incredible amount of this. It's also a paradox that you get away from what's our natural advantage for the breeding industry, which is tidal water and the Gulf Stream. My follow-up question to the Christian People's Party is: What other industries do Christian People's Party want to steer through technical solutions, rather than clear environmental goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1160	We have e.g. clear environmental objectives for industry with the CO2 proposals we have in terms of power. We must constantly have the environmental perspective with us on all the issues we are dealing with, and in all the business areas we are dealing with. So it's important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1168	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1171	The left will unleash creativity and creativity. We'll bet on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. This is precisely why strong efforts are being made to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general, and small businesses in particular, the main priority of the 2012 Left Alternative State Budget. Norway needs an industrial policy that stimulates more innovation and that facilitates the conditions for entrepreneurs and the diversity of value-creating and innovative enterprises across the country. This is an area where Norway is lagging behind. Norway is now in 17th place in Europe in innovation when 33 countries are compared. In comparison, our neighbouring countries are Sweden, Denmark and Finland in second, third and fourth places, respectively. A diverse and innovative business life is therefore essential for Norway to succeed in an increasingly globalised economy. Public sector and public welfare depend entirely on the value creation of private businesses and on the willingness of initiative-rich people to take a significant risk and turn ideas into actions, products and services. Therefore, the starting point for the Left's industrial policy is a good general framework for all parts of the economy, combined with targeted efforts for the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. The left wants a much closer link between national and local businesses and important educational environments. The left will also focus on research and innovation and better facilitate those who will create a job for themselves and others. I hope that's well-known Left rhetoric. The left will ensure that self-employed persons are granted the same rights to social security schemes as other workers. Equality of these rights will also make it easier for more women to start their own jobs for themselves and others. In the view of the Left, it is very striking and descriptive of the government's commitment that when the Government's Action Plan for Gender Equality, 2014 was presented on 8 November this year, traders were not mentioned in one word in the 103-page text, other than a reference to an EU directive that the Government had implemented. Public sector instruments need to give greater incentives to conversion and innovation rather than to traditional activities, geographical considerations and conservation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation to be competitive and meet the challenges of the future. There are a number of governmental bodies in Norway that are engaged in various forms of innovation and innovation. The obvious question is whether efforts are sufficient and targeted enough to strengthen Norway in terms of innovation and innovation. The left is somewhat doubtful as to whether the structure of the day is appropriate. That is why, in the past, we have proposed to split Innovation Norway in order to better target the innovation and innovation strand. That is why we are proposing to set up our own environmental and climate technology investment company, Climate Change, to target this important effort. For the Left, it is important to ensure risk capital through the public instrument and through tax incentives for private investors. The left will therefore increase the nationwide innovation schemes by 250 million. kr and strengthen SIVA’s incubator strategy. The left considers that public intervention should focus more on measures in areas where Norway and Norwegian business have a high unsolved potential. We are therefore proposing to increase funding for nutrient research by 150 million. SEK, travel life bet by 50 million. kr and an increase in research and development contracts under Innovation Norway by 50 million. kr. The government is constantly talking about an active enterprise policy. However, it is difficult to see what this active policy is. The big state-owned companies have few challenges. Statoil is a good example of that. The public ownership of Aker Holding is so much just an economic loss project, and as the Left sees it, there is little willingness to look at the conditions of the smallest enterprises and the self-employed. An example of this is that in the State budget, the government proposes, among other things, to remove the pay deduction for self-employed persons who have employees. As a result, the government punishes both self-employed people who have a certain turnover and a certain success, and they punish those who work for the self-employed. In the view of the Left, this is the opposite policy of what Norway needs, and the Left stands for it. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal, No. 28-31, which is distributed in the Chamber, and at the same time warns that the Left will vote in favour of minority proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4-7, 9,10, 14, 20, and 32, which are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1194	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1199	The left is the only party on the Stortinget that goes in to wind up the entire reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers. With this cut of six billion. Priority is given to the closure of peak skills in Norway’s second largest competitive industry, employing a total of 100000 workers. The representative of the Left is concerned with innovation and green focus. This is an industry that has that focus every day. The representative says that national and local interaction is important. But isn't that about party politics? 70 pst. by the Left's list tops in More and Rome's valley, where I come from, will have reimbursement arrangements, while you will centrally liquidate it completely. What will the Left do to ensure employment for Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1206	Thank you very much for your question. The representative aims at the net pay scheme, I expect. That's right, as the representative says, we want to reduce it or cut it out, just like that. The reason for this is that this is a pure subsidy for the shipping companies – for the richest – and I am not sure whether the representative of the Workers' Party seems to be good policy. So there are several research environments that say that this is actually simply socio-economically unprofitable. If Norway had gone ahead and closed, other countries would have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1211	The left is excited about investing in renewable energy, and if we are to gain weight on renewable energy, we need big, strong players who can create a market for renewable energy technologies. A while ago, we recapitalized Statkraft and gave some leads for what dividends we were going to take from Statkraft, because Statekraft was going to be the strong muscle that could take a big boost within renewable energy, among other things. needs strong muscles to raise offshore winds. Then I wonder: Why will the Left tap Statkraft for means.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1217	That's right, as the representative says, we're losing State Power for 5 pst. more than the government parties do, and as the chairman of the committee initially said, State power is going very, very well. Had the representative Holmelid been smarter and more concerned with climate and environmental measures, he would have supported the Left in what we have proposed, namely to start an investment company that we call Climate Change, which has tax incentives, just to do something within energy and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1222	I do not want to give up the reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers. I think it is a little weak when the representative says that you should be careful to have such arrangements because it helps the rich. So here it's about an industry that's employed 100,000 people, and only in my state, More and Romesdal, it's, as I said instead, 20,000 who work in this industry. So this is more complex than just thinking about the rich. It's a very lubricating industry that needs to be competitive. So I ask again, does the representative think it is proper to wind up this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1229	I think I answered the first question from the representative. We have also had representatives from More and Romsdal who see that this money could be spent more wisely, for example. to create more jobs, to strengthen the framework conditions for SMEs, to spend more on nationwide innovation schemes, to spend more money on SIVA, to do something about Innovation Norway and to get a little more jobs and innovation in districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1236	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1239	There is an expression called ‘On the fruit the tree is to be known’, and perhaps more than in any other department it is more on the results than on the budget itself that enterprise policy is measured. This is not a budget which, in itself, aims to increase as rapidly as possible. The aim is to maximise the achievement of the overall objectives of industrial policy, full employment, good competitiveness, innovation and entrepreneurship and a standard of living to increase, so that new generations get even better than we have. Looking at the results, we succeed in industrial policy. So over the six years we've had a red-green government, we've got about 250,000 more jobs in Norway, more than two thirds of them in the private sector. We have the lowest unemployment rate in 30 years, so we've also had growth in industrial employment in the last year. At the same time, therefore, we have a serious crisis in Europe, a high unemployment rate in the United States – a world economy that is going through a very tough period. Six years are long in government, and it is at least a little too long for the opposition to say that it was the excellent policy pursued in the years 2001–2005 that is now producing results. In any case, red-green policies must not hinder good nutritional development. The answer lies in the fasit, in the empirical. We talked a little earlier today about black paint and beauty painting. These are none of the parts, these are the facts. That's the situation. We can also be exposed to what's happening internationally. When we know that exports to the rest of the world amount to more than 40 pst. of our GDP, and that 75 pst. Of what we sell out of the country, we go to Europe, we know that what happens around us, also concerns us. That is why we must have a responsible budget. We follow the rule of action, we're under what the 4 pst rule says, we're in order in our own house, we have profits on the state budget, we have good capital situation, and we have profits on trade with the rest of the world. Over the last few years, over the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, we have stepped down the crisis measures implemented, particularly in 2009. It's right to do it this way. You have to give gas when it's bad times, but then you have to hold back when it's good times, so that we have something to go on again if we need it, if the crisis should increase and the situation becomes more serious for Norwegian businesses. We have shown a willingness to do so in the past, both through the major packages, as in 2009, but also through e.g.: the paint package that came in the spring of 2010. The SIVA grant has been proposed to be increased by 6 million. SEK to a total of 44,5 million. kr. It's proposed to set aside $1.47. kr to Innovation Norway, and the lending framework to low-risk innovation countries is proposed to continue with 2.5 billion respectively. kr and 0,5 brd. kr. In this picture, it is important to take into account that, in the years following our acquisition in 2005, many of these schemes have experienced significant escalations, so that the effort is at a record high level. The biggest thing we do in the state budget is to raise capital in Investinor by 1.5 billion. kr. One and a half billion. NOK is a lot of money. It was a great pleasure in business when Investinor was established with 2 billion. kr. Now we get a close doubling of the capital that Investinor has, which allows you to invest in new, good businesses. The guarantee framework for GIEK in 2012 is continued at the same level. The Government has also submitted proposals for the establishment of a new State-owned export finance scheme last autumn. We come back to that matter, but both of these things make our export industry secure and predictable. Travel life is important. We continue the non-neutral industrial policy. Travel life is a bet area, and it's set at 252 million. SEK for the tourism activity of Innovation Norway. It's also at the record level. The Nordgebiet strategy is followed up by a nutritional effort of, among other things, marine bio-prospecting, travel, marine activities, space-related infrastructure and the mineral industry. The government is also concerned that we should be a long-term, professional and good owner. This is the basis for our dividend policy, which is a bit of a disagreement with the opposition, and I am convinced that the level at which we have applied is a correct follow-up to the ownership message and the policy we have pursued in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1262	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1265	Many government councils before the current Minister of Industry have promised simplification and less bureaucracy. Not everyone now agrees that there has been a smaller bureaucracy and no smaller form. Small businesses say that the reporting requirement to the country is increasing. Today’s Business on September 30th this year says that bureaucracy is getting worse. One study shows that 32 pst. of the enterprises spend more time on form fields today, and there is only 3 pst. that spends less time. At the same time, it is said that 44 pst. of all these enterprises, seeking help to complete the forms. Then I ask the questions: Is the Council of State satisfied with the negative developments that are taking place, given what the Council of State has promised? If we are to achieve these objectives that the Council of State has promised, when are we going to achieve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1274	That's how the red-green government is the first ever to set such a concrete goal for simplification – not just how much we're going to simplify with, but also when we're going to achieve it. What we have said is that by the end of 2015, i.e. by 1 January 2016, we will have achieved business simplification – net, well to mark – of 10 billion. NOK, which corresponds to 21000 annual works for a limited period of time in the companies. We are already removing the audit obligation for small businesses. We have reduced the capital requirement from NOK 100 000 to NOK 30 000. It is good progress in everything that is about making things easier by reporting electronically – ALTINN I, ALTINN II, EDAG etc. – and we will continue, so that we achieve the goal we have set, by the end of 2015. Once again, we are the first government ever to set itself such a concrete goal. I think that's what I need, because the results have been scanty under a lot of different food ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1283	I will ask the Minister of Industry about his responsibilities in travel. The debate of the great numbers is fast – and it is natural to discuss this. I will come back to a matter that I have raised earlier with the Council of State. It's about the Epcot Center in the United States -- Walt Disney. There is a recording related to the film shown over there — so-called advertising for Norway. Norway is one of the very few countries with its own status there, and it is very important in marketing contexts. That film was produced in the mid-1980s. Questions have been asked about upgrading the film – and make sure that Norwegian advertising is in line with the reality we are today. The cost is approx. Five million. kr for the State, and it could trigger funds from the private sector, which have agreed to participate. This is where the state has just said no. It has been said that you can use the Innovation Norway film, and then you will spend a small amount of money to upgrade it. Is the Council satisfied with that, or will the Council of State ensure that these 5 million. kr comes on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1292	Let me first say that I very much agree with those who say that the film that is currently on the Epcot Center is a little out of date. I think we'll be able to agree on that soon. This gives a slightly different picture of Norway than is the situation today. Even though I'm happy in Walt Disney – and especially in these Christmas seasons I especially appreciate their products – this is a pretty tough international group that gets well paid for things they do, and wants income. So for me, it's really going to be a purely marketing issue. Is it better to spend the millions we're going to spend on travel and marketing in the United States, on this film, or is it better to use it in another way? I believe that those who are set to assess these things in Innovation Norway, in consultation with travel life itself, are best able to assess them. But we'd like to be in this movie if it turns out that it's the best way to market Norway, get travelers to Norway, sell Norwegian travel products, because that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1299	I think the Council of State speaks down in many ways the challenge that lies directly under his responsibility, and that is the challenge of two-part Norway, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I noticed in the Questionnaire earlier today that the Council of State talked about that we had 40 pst. higher productivity than our trading partners. If there's something he can thank the previous government for, that's exactly it. The government’s statistics in the national budget are, of course, that productivity growth – and that is what is important, because that is what indicates development – was faster than our trading partners until 2006, after 2006, it has been lower. It should be a major concern to the Nutrient Councils, and we have many signals that this is now beginning to apply in traditional industries. Today, there are two-page headlines in Today's Business on the development of travel life. So my question is, doesn't the Council of State see the challenge around the two-part Norway? I do not see what action he intends to take to meet the challenge either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1311	I almost don't think I'm giving talks without mentioning two things: one is that what's now happening in Europe can hit us. We don't live on an isolated island, we're part of the European economy. We sell a lot to Europe, and if things go wrong there, it will also affect Norwegian companies. The second is that we have to take care of competitiveness. We do that through the responsible state budget, by keeping interest rates and exchange rates in order, by increasing productivity and by having responsible wage settlements. My point is that in the middle of all this concern, we should also take into account that we have the lowest unemployment rate in 30 years – that is, when there are 25 million unemployed out in Europe – that we have had growth in industrial employment in the last year, and that we have thus received 250,000 more jobs in the last six years, compared to 22,500 more jobs in the four years of bourgeois government. So we have the ten times in employment growth. It has to tell us something about the fact that the policy is not so bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1318	There are a lot of companies that are going to change owners today and in the years to come, and we have a lot of family-owned businesses. Generational shifts entail additional costs in the form of, inter alia: inheritance tax, which weakens the economy of enterprises and reduces the safety of enterprises. The Christian People's Party wants to remove the inheritance tax – it's a dwindling model that's zeroed out after ten years. We believe this is a good model to ensure the continuation of the family-run businesses. The NHO supports this model. I want to ask the Council of State whether he will consider looking at this model for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1327	In every budget, we look at the entire tax package. Now the inheritance tax and the tax scheme belong to another department and another debate in Stortinget, but we are in favour of continuously improving the tax system, also to the benefit of businesses, while trying to maintain the income of elderly care, school, health, etc. and a good distribution profile. When it comes to family-run businesses and generation change, I think there's a lot of other things we can do to help make things work out, among other things. good guidance and information and help for those preparing for a generation change, both the one to go out, perhaps the founder of the company is to leave the company to a new generation, and the one to take over, who may also need external assistance and help to get this right. In some cases, perhaps the best thing is not to let the family business go to a new generation, maybe there are others who are better suited to continuing the business. All of this we should build up better systems around to provide good advice and guidance on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1334	For the Left, environmental technology is very important. In the context of the review of the revised national budget in our ba a large majority of the Stortinget ‘the government assesses whether the remaining part of the three-year allocation of the environmental technology programme as a whole should be transferred to the eco-innovation scheme’, managed by Innovation Norway. You'd think this would come in the next budget. It didn't happen. The government parties have made this fact known to the government in a separate note in the financial position. My question to the Council of State will then be: When can we expect the Council of State to follow up the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1341	We are well asked to ‘assess’, and in the 2012 state budget, we add up to a corresponding distribution to what we have had. The most important thing is that we've put off 0.5 billion. SEK to eco-innovation during a three-year period. It's a big bet. It comes to the top of everything we use under Enova, under the Research Council, under the other schemes of Innovation Norway, which also have an environmental dimension. We spend a lot of money on environmental technology. I am very sure that the money Innovation Norway spends is used in a good way, and that it benefits companies well. I appreciate the fact that Stortinget also appreciates Innovation Norway's efforts. But I do not ignore the fact that there are also other channellings that enable companies to benefit from this money in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1351	I want to use my speaking time for some considerations about agriculture. For the country, its inhabitants, agriculture and how it develops in the future are very important. There are many major challenges here in terms of profitability, investment needs and more, but also points of light and good play. Young people who invest in milk production in Finnmark and Middle Norway are good examples, and bets on niche products, such as: The cheese from Tingvoll, which is cut to the best cheese in the world. So it's a lot positive. In the budget configuration, the government fraction has such good comments that they have to be read and read at night, so I don't think it is necessary to comment on them from the pulpit. The most important thing about agriculture is of course to produce safe food and raw materials for consumers and industry based on Norwegian resources. The long-term perspective of this will come back to us when we deal with and debate the agricultural notification. I'm just highlighting the importance that we have as far as we can get to take advantage of all of our areas. The quality and quantity of the crops depend on each year. The dairy farmers were early aware of the impact of this year’s poor summer on production volume. But Tine, as a market regulator, did not take these consequences sufficiently over time, and we got the so-called butter crisis, which can be serious enough in some industries and for consumers, but which is primarily very serious for Tine herself, as a market regulator, because especially in that role, Tine needs trust. I notice that the Tine management is now flattening for the criticism that has emerged. That's good and necessary. We don't have to experience this again. We rely on the fact that we have market organisations that work and that we have confidence in. The contractual system gives agricultural organisations a co-inference and a co-responsibility for the formulation of agricultural policy instruments. It also imposes obligations on agriculture, for example: to regulate overproduction and to cover its costs. But that there may be a need to adjust this system, perhaps to achieve more flexibility and better preparedness, is something that should be assessed, as I see it. So I have noticed that the Right has a realistic approach to regulating domestic sales of agricultural products, at a good distance from the Progress Party in this matter. I noticed that the representative fleet says that the right also sees the need for a market organisation. It's positive. But then I understand that he wants a different order from today's. Which one? And then who is going to cover the costs? In today's system, it's manufacturers. In an alternative system, what should it be, is the State's agricultural management, the SLF – the state in some role – called for? It would be interesting if the representative Fleet, or others in the Right, could explain in the course of the debate what the thinking is about in this area. I think that would be of interest – at least for me. Active forestry as a value added, employment factor and instrument of climate policy has been honoured and dignified since the government change in 2005. That's good. Forestry is the basis for a long-term value chain and depends on a functioning market for its final products. There is no reason to hide that dark clouds rest over parts of the forest industry. For those who have lived for a while, and lived with Norwegian Forest, it is particularly tragic to experience what we are now witnessing. I think it's a lesson to learn from this in terms of growth rate, strategy choices, etc. Forestry and the forest industry are a very important food chain, important for the whole country. It is therefore essential to facilitate the provision of living conditions and opportunities for development at all stages of the food chain. It will be good for value creation, employment, the environment and the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1370	In recent months, the government of Stoltenberg's agricultural policy has not only not worked, it has been playing directly down. If we go back a few years, we had trouble getting enough eggs, last year it was ribs, earlier this year pint meat, now cheese, now we see that it's also free of ribs, and Synnuve Find says it's probably going to be free of brown cheese. It is regrettable for the reputation of Norway that last Friday we were able to record that the population in the capital is 45 minutes in line to get butter home for Christmas. We haven't experienced that in this nation since the Marshall aid after the war. What is also regrettable is that in all television channels across the Nordic countries, in the United States and even in Dubai, Norway has not been able to supply enough food itself. So this is a problem for Norway's reputation, and that's something we have to do with. We can also see that this is devalued by the government, especially the Center Party. I think that's only for one reason, namely to recover the regulatory system that Tine represents today, which has expired. We also note that today’s Internet version of the United Nations says that from Monday, customs duties on cattle will be reduced, because there is a lack of it. In fact, I believe that Minister of Agriculture Breck should go out to Norwegian consumers and apologize for not being able to deliver it to an agricultural minister. I believe that, with all due respect, the Minister of Agriculture should do so to the Norwegian people. It is time to take responsibility and not just push everything to the regulator. The regulator has not done his job, but at the end of the day it is the Minister of Agriculture who is responsible here. Today, then, in Europe, there are two places you are in line for food, for example. cheese. It's in Norwegian shops, where you're looking for it, and it's in Nordby's mall in Sweden, where all the Norwegians go to get what they don't get in Norway. Why does this happen? It's pretty simple. We have strict rules. For example, if you want more use, you don't have the opportunity to do so much with it, because on a single use you have quotas of no more than 400,000 litres, and in co-operation the quota is no more than 750,000 litres. It does not harmonize with, inter alia: the milk robot does. In other words, you don't get this to be business-economically profitable. So the peasants are doing a bad job because of rigid rules, which are ruining profitability. At the same time, there shall be a maximum of five owners in co-operation. Here, the Council of State is also on a collision course with its own Minister of Finance, who believes that the farmers should move to a limited liability company, because of depreciation. But that's what you're working against. The Järlsbergost is 10 pst. of the consumption of milk. We can still deliver it, while we have too little milk for our own people. It shows that Tine is not only out of date, but Tine is more busy making money than doing what they have paid to do in the regulator role. So here, once again, the Council of State should step in. On the Dagsrevyen you could see a good example – also for the Center Party and the Red-Green Government – of what would have happened if the Progress Party guided the policy. There's a farmer standing there and telling me he's now got 30 pst. more revenue, due to the removal of the cap until March. This increase in income allows him to do other things on the farm, in terms of investment. He says he can also get more milk by using another type of feed, which is more energy-rich, but then he must know that the milk is delivered. So this shows that there are possibilities. It is not just us in the Progress Party who believe that the regulator has played out its role. I'll quote from Saturday's VG. Ivar Pettersen, Director of the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, said: «Jarlsberg import illustrates the point. The days of the export of homogeneous white cheese to regulate the Norwegian market are over. Now this is also a brand of high value, based on long-term relationships." He also says, ‘The question is whether it is worth patching on the system or whether the system should be fundamentally modified.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1405	My post will largely focus on marine delicacies and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs agenda as such. The right would like to take advantage of the opportunity to boast that the Norwegian seafood industry is as successful as it is now. At the same time, it is in place to boast a little of the responsible state council for the vision she has promised, that Norway will be the world's leading maritime nation. It sounds good in right-circuits as well. Measured in export value, although new records are not set every day at precisely these times, industry shows a very strong, despite financial turbulence and alarming markets. I would also point out that this is an industry where the framework conditions are constantly changing. I am thinking here of financial turmoil, but also of globalisation and changing the framework conditions in that way. In view of the importance of industry for coastal Norway housing, employment and value creation, it is important to include these elements in the development of policies to facilitate an efficient industry. In all of these terms, we now see major structural changes. The fleet level has been able to increase the quota base by boat through various structuring arrangements and through this creation a fleet with fewer but more modern vessels. We also see a fleet of more organized jobs than we did just a few years ago. This is a policy that has been a broad political consensus for many years. However, it has become apparent that there are now different classes of structural operations, depending on whether one could modernise under Svein Ludvigsen or under the subsequent minister Helga Pedersen. This is probably a rash that no one wants, and the Right asks the Council of State to look quickly through the new conditions and do something with them. There is a need to emphasise that responsible economic policies, combined with a fisheries and aquaculture policy that stimulate profitability, provide industry with both long-term and optimism. The industry is doing well in many ways, but we believe to record more and more examples of the unforeseeable and unpredictable nature of the current management of fisheries that must be difficult for the practitioners. It is important for the Right to pursue a policy that facilitates profitability at all levels of the maritime food industry, and we believe that Norwegian authorities need to contribute more to ensuring stable and predictable market access. Policy needs to be explored by exploiting our natural competitive advantage in Norway. In fact, it is with satisfaction that the Right notes that the Council of State now believes it is necessary to consider whether to make changes to the start of the quota year – this in order to ensure activity across the coast, and more effectively to care for a market that depends on having to last all year. Therefore, the right considers that there will be opportunities to obtain additional prices for more products in the market, which in turn will increase industry profitability. It is the industry's profitability that determines whether this is a successful industry. There is reason to argue that a change in the allowance year will also result in a less bureaucratic management of resources. Finally, I would like to point out that the right hand side of the budget – in order to strengthen maritime food turnover – is 10 million. kr to the Fish Export Committee, to work for more consumption of domestic seafood. In the United Nations food programme, the marine industry is responsible for the world’s future food supply, and Norway is asked to take part in this responsibility. The government's splendour of the industry has not only been able to raise the level of substance of the debate. The right therefore welcomes a big message on seafood. We think it's time. We ask the Council of State to keep pace, as the matters that need treatment are in line, and the queue is getting long. This year, too, there has been a debate on the escape of farmed salmon and the recontamination of the wild species. In order to secure the genetic material for the wild axis, the Right granted 10 million. kr for the start of work on a gene bank. To the right, it seems natural that the competence of the breeding industry is also used in this work. Right-wing believes it is important that the growth of the aquaculture industry takes place in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way, and we have a management model that ensures this. From seafood I will move quickly over to another national delicacies, namely pure meat. On the right, it would be gratifying to note that the agricultural forecast has arrived. At the same time, we have to add that the chapter on reindeer drift has to be said to be sadly thin. For the right, it is important that the reindeer industry and the practitioners are treated to the greatest extent possible as normal nutritionists. Therefore, we will come back to a more thorough review of this when processing the notification. Here I would just like to point out that, in budgetary terms, we propose that the reindeer industry should treat snowmobiles and motorcycles in the accounting terms as other operating means. This is going to be a first part of the way towards treating the reindeer industry as a normal nutritionist, and we think that the industry will be well served.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1428	In order to share, you have to create. The Labour Party has said that for many years, and it is a mantra that lies close to my heart. I am therefore proud of the seafood industry, which contributes most to creating values for society. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has a relatively small expenditure framework in the budgetary context — about 4.6 billion. kr – but we spend the money well, and the industry creates both jobs and export income. Only in 2010 did we export for under 54 billion dollars. kr, and the marine food industry and its ring-effects account for approximately 46 000 annual works on the whole coast. The industry has also had an impressive growth. Measured in value creation, the maritime food industry is more than sixfold from 1970 to 2009. We export about 95 pst. of all the fish that we pick up from the sea. Economic problems in important export markets in Europe will therefore be able to reverse them at home. Although it is too early to say anything about the impact on the Norwegian economy in general and the maritime food industry in particular, there is no doubt that lower economic growth, reduced purchasing power and high unemployment in key exporting countries could have a negative impact on us. With the international uncertainty as a hindrance, it is all the more important that we housekeeping wisely. The government could of course choose to spend more money for all good purposes, but the industry's representatives have asked me first of all, is something as simple, boring and challenging as this: a responsible budget. Then, within that framework, we have nevertheless found room for important investments in oil protection, marine surveillance and monitoring of the seabed. The government has been, and is, committed to ensuring the industry good framework conditions. It provides a basis for profitability, which in turn provides economic space for renewal and activity along the coast. I have previously mentioned responsible budgetary policy as one of the conditions. Two other important factors are: Sustainable management, both in fisheries and aquaculture. It's the very bottom plan for long-term profitability. Our main fish stocks are in good standing, and we are working hard for sustainable aquaculture. Ensuring market access is also central. We're totally dependent on getting to know our fish all over the world. Norway is a major and important maritime nation, and as most — at least in this room — have come along, I will present a maritime food report next year. Of course, a message to Stortinget cannot solve all the challenges facing the industry, but my ambition is that a broad message should set the course for how to get up unused values that lie in the sea. I'll try to describe what we have to do now, to be on top in 10, 20 and 30 years. The main objective shall be to develop a forward-looking policy that can contribute to further developing the role of maritime food industry as coastal value building. It takes a long time and requires hard work to build a strong export-oriented industry, but it takes a short time to jeopardize it by acting irresponsiblely. That is why I am pleased that the 2012 state budget focuses on safe jobs, value creation and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1458	In fact, I want to start by giving the Council of State credit for the effort that the Minister of the Sea is making in his field. It is important for Norway, it is important for the nation of Norway, and it is important for our reputation. The question that I will ask the Council of State in its extension is linked to the possibilities for increasing production capacity in the marine sector in particular. Fortunately, we now see that the price of salmon increases after a while to have been very low. After having had an average price of 23 kroner per kilogram, the price has now begun to increase again. The Council of State budgets do not provide for any growth in production, either within the MTB or through new concessions, all the time that is not allocated to any revenue from the government in these fields. My question to the Council of State is this: could the Council of State consider increasing either the MTB – i.e. the maximum authorised biomass – or giving new concessions in areas that have and get control of the lice and escape situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1469	When I was waiting for the announced increase in the maximum permitted biomass advertised for large parts of the coast, it was background to the lice situation. Then at the same time, I enabled the part of the country that was assessed not to have problems with the loop, to be able to increase its output. It shows that this government facilitates where possible, and has an attitude that it is possible to differentiate the growth. When I stopped the announced growth, I said at the same time that it was the lice situation that was the reason for it, and that should be the lice situation we should watch extra carefully when we might increase it again. It has been said that this year the industry will show that it is handling it. I actually think they've done that in a good way. I had a meeting with the Food Authority yesterday, which I thought was uplifting in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1478	The undersigned has also been given access to a number of figures which just show that it looks better in view of the loop situation, at least within the given areas. The Council of State did not answer my question if you would consider increasing if you were given control of this. The Council of State itself showed that the justification was the loop situation. And then we've actually seen that the areas that got an increase in the MTB, too, have lice problems, so it's not completely black and white. But in the case of wild game populations, I want to challenge the Council of State in another field that I have previously addressed with the Council of State, which I hope the Council of State will at least enter in the maritime food communication, or in the message that comes. It is linked to the possibility that escaped farmed fish may mix with wild-tailed fish. Then, of course, the possibility of distinguishing between salmon concessions and trout concessions is one way to do it, as the former Rieber-Mohn committee came into being. Will the Council of State now consider this to see if there can be an instrument in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1489	To continue a little where I left off, because then to respond to what kind of criteria we have to base when we are going to assess a total growth: of course, the lice situation will be crucial. But at the same time, we do not ignore the fact that the industry also wants me to look at more parameters and not least market conditions. I have, to say the truth, no one in line, right now, at least, to increase the growth in production. So it's going to be possible to increase the value creation in more areas than just in terms of growth. In fact, it is possible to increase value creation by increasing processing. I'm very happy to see that now there are actually more people who are facilitating it along the coast. Then I and the representative Nesvik discussed this earlier with salmon and trout and separating those concessions. Today the situation is really that they can choose. There's not a lot of people who choose trout, but some people do. What I'm afraid if we separate them completely, is that those who produce trout, they go on salmon, because over time it's more marketable. But of course we have to look at it in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1498	The council said that in order to share, you have to create. It was a mantra in the Workers' Party. In the right we're so precise that we say we have to create first, and then we have to divide -- that probably means something of the same thing. The political job is often to be distributed, and often the debate is to be distributed fairly. Also in my post I was involved with the structure system that eventually seems more and more unfair. Most often on difficult questions, we have been told that there will be a maritime food report. I am not quite sure whether it is enough time to do so with regard to the structure of the coastal fleet, so that we can have a modern coastal fleet that will be able to cope with difficult competitive conditions – which can be achieved with financial turmoil and less paying markets. My question is whether the Council of State is interested in looking at the structural models that lie there today, and, if so, making adjustments, so that this becomes more fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1507	First of all, I have to be allowed to say that I am very happy to be in a debate where there is a lot of focus on creating. There are probably far more politicians around the country who are more concerned about sharing. That is why I very much appreciate this debate. Then it's important that we facilitate profitable businesses at all stages, and the whole chain also thinks in the seafood industry. We're definitely going to come back to that. As regards the government's structural policy, it is described in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007, structural policy for the fishing fleet. That policy is firm. Then we will continue to facilitate a development that ensures renewal and that ensures recruitment, including to the smallest coastal fleet, within the framework of the current structural policy. We've said that there's no thing that's hollow in stone. Of course, we will look at the possibilities of doing things even better within the structural policy chosen by the government. The co-ordination system is, in fact, a security system, but also has a positive impact on profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1516	It was uplifting. Another thing that often plagues the coastal fleet is regulation of several populations. We have discussed coastal cod in this room, we have discussed royal crabs, these are problems with the piggå stock. Often, researchers say that we don't know enough, so it can be difficult to manage these populations. But I now record in the Council of State budget that research is being turned from stock research to marine research. After all, the councils themselves had this in their posts – where she raised the stakes on the coast, and preferably on oil, in the future. When we have already discussed so far many gaps in research, many gaps in knowledge, my question is: Does the Council of State think it is an important effort to turn research away from stock research and into marine and coastal research?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1527	It is nice to have a visit to my research budget. I was here a whole day earlier and was ready to discuss it small and big. It's not like the representative Bakke-Jensen says, that we're ‘tracing’ – we're doing it as well. We are increasing the appropriations for the Mareano programme, which I believe is the programme for which the representative is to study even more. It is also important for the marine food industry that we gain knowledge of the bottom of the sea in terms of the activity carried out by the fishing industry. In addition, we are also continuing a high level of research on multi-racial and ecosystem-based research. Then, of course, we should have done much, much more, but within those limits and within that budget that takes into account that we have an industry that is vulnerable to economic fluctuations, I am very pleased with what we do on the research front. It is not without reason that Norway has been identified for several consecutive years as the country in the world that actually cuts the highest in the management of our fish stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1536	I would like to take a small step into a much smaller budget, but still an important item for Norway: we are a member of a number of different organisations – nationally, but not least internationally – to take care of Norwegian interests around the world. Very many of these are very important, but I find reason to ask questions by especially one organization that is becoming relatively meaningless that we are a member of, and that is the IWC, the International Whaling Commission. It is clear that when we are a member of an organisation that has then until those degrees become an opponent of the Norwegian whaling and Norwegian administration of marine mammals, I begin to wonder if we are at all served to be there. That is why the opposition – at least parts of it – has made a proposal asking the government to assess its membership there. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain the positive effects she sees by throwing away Norwegian taxpayers' money into that organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1543	I am aware of the situation in the IWC and follow it closely. The situation is worrying, but the government insists that, as of today, the IWC is the international forum for cooperation on major whales. Norway has been actively working in recent years to find a solution to the situation we have in the IWC. I will admit that it is uncertain whether we succeed in getting there, but I still believe – despite that – that this is a process that we are served to participate in. The uncertainty associated with the future of the IWC as a management organisation was just an important reason why Norway chose in 1992 to participate in the establishment of NAMMCO, the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission, where we want to ensure that we have an international cooperation organisation in place, in case the IWC would break up. But as of today, I think it makes sense that we're actually trying to work... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1551	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1554	There has so far been an interesting exchange of words in this debate, which may also be described as quite predictable. Predictable is a description that can also be given on the direction of the Progress Party in the fisheries policy. It is clear from the comments in this budget. Far worse, I think there is predictability in the right fisheries policy. One of the reasons why the confusion is greater than ever is that the Right may have a regional fisheries policy figure, which has recognised that the Right's fisheries policy is being mismanaged by coastal farms. It is very interesting to note that, particularly along the coast, there is a high interest in Norwegian fisheries policy at present and that the debate is being heard – both in the media, politically and in the Kaia. That's good, and that's important. When reading the budget's part of the budget, it's basically hard to see the big differences between the Right's fisheries policy and the government's policy in this area, but I understand a little bit of the difference in the contribution of the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen. But no one has to be fooled into believing that this is comparable. The right is just getting close, close to the Working Party – and why? Of course to take the pickers. For most people, there is no right-wing fisheries policy. It was also very good in the posts of the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen. That is why a number of Højre’s major politicians – and rapporteurs – are currently out on the barricades to criticise the government’s policy. It's just that it's actually its own policy you're criticising – a policy that the Right itself has largely prepared the basis for through its fisheries ministers, and which has been, not least, a desired policy over many years. Day after day, we read reports from Right-wing Fisheries Policy spokesperson Frank Bakke-Jensen, who is hammering on his own policy and saying that we are now ‘in an hour of fate for how to manage the delivery obligations’ and that, in addition, it is burning a blue light for the coastal fleet. I dare remind you – one more time – that it was actually Right Two Fisheries Ministers Thor Listau and Svein Ludvigsen who started with the suspension of the freezing law, which means more freezing of fish, and facilitating the concession conditions for the supply of fish. This means that the obligation to provide services was removed from the obligation to provide services. In addition to this, the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen goes into frontal attacks, and says in a newspaper post that it is this government that has ‘managed the greatest efforts to prevent the landing of fresh fish in Norway’. No. Right-hand know that their fisheries policy has gone down, and here you try to get out of here. So I would like to remind you that it is this red-green government that has put forward a fresh-fish strategy. And then – when calling for more fresh fish to land – I dare remind you of the budgetary position for 2007-2008, which was very critical of fresh fish strategies. That being said, it is important to take the challenge that lies there. If the purpose of universal service is not followed, we shall take action. We've got to catch up. We follow the situation closely. In my view – I stress, in my view – it is necessary to take action to reverse the trend towards a shift towards frozen fish, even within the coastal fleet. Then I want to go back to Budget-inner. S. No 8 for 2007-2008, to a quote from the Right Commentary, which says: ‘On the other hand, regional quota, reinforced delivery obligations and more regulation in the fisheries policy do not contribute to increasing industry profitability.’ In other words, perhaps the Right in its fisheries policy is now discussing an opening that is more than what we have today in terms of delivery obligations. I see that the time is running out, so I'm going to go down, and then I'm going to "press the tree," because I'm going to take the rest of my post later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1583	The representative would like to do so, without any general request. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1586	In my time as a politician, and with personal experience as a self-employed person, there are a number of things that go on when we talk about simplifying and improving Norwegian business. The first thing to mention is a desire for a better and more efficient transport network. The second is taxes and taxes, including in particular taxes on property and not least taxes on wealth. Paying taxes on working capital feels completely wrong for those who have invested, often everything they own, in what they believe. The next thing that makes everyday life more difficult than it should be is bureaucracy. Throughout the year, a number of forms are to be completed. These are forms that are often equally extensive if you are large or small. Often, these forms are also so extensive that they consume the company’s resources, both human and timely — and are too extensive — external assistance needs to be rented in. Even if some positive things happen in this area, such as the waiver of the auditor's obligation under certain conditions, it comes new from others, such as increased obligations and reporting requirements from Nav. As regards the example of exemption from the statutory obligation, it is probably right to say that this was originally a progress party proposal, in line with reduced financial requirements for starting an A/S. But there is no doubt that there has still been more bureaucracy than the opposite. The Progress Party wants to work so that the everyday life of the companies, from the smallest to the largest, needs to be improved. In order for our welfare society to have the economy to provide the services we need, we also need someone to create the values. In addition, we need to facilitate the competitiveness of each enterprise in relation to the rest of the world. Our border trade is far too big, and so we lose a lot of jobs, today an estimated 10,000. As far as forestry is concerned, there are many who are looking forward with expectations to the large volume of forest sales that State Forest has begun. This has its origin in Statskog's purchase of Borregaard's forests, etc., where it was decided that Statskog would resell parts of its property. This seems to be approx. 600 000 dekars. Everyone agrees with this sale. The party with which progress is not satisfied is the time for it to take. Only by 2016 is the sale over. Why this should take so long, doesn't understand the Advance Party. These are parcels that are scattered around large parts of the country, and the individual sales are completely independent of each other. This also means that the taxiing and sales processes are well distributed across the country. With a quick sale, sales revenue would quickly come in, and those who get to buy would be able to use the property faster, thus strengthening their industry and the community. Working professionally with forests requires large areas, as the time from deforestation and revenue to new deforestation takes on a human age. Therefore, there should be other tax rules on timber income, similar to those in the past, where this was taxed as capital income. I believe that we need to look at even deforestation and also contribute to more investment in just forestry. Now it is often the case that a real forest income is once in life — because of today’s tax system. In the case of ownership, it should also be up to the individual owner or owners – as the Progress Party believes – if you wish, for example. the forest property as an A/S, DA or in the best way for the individual owner. The Norwegian forest is a great resource for all of us, and with the right grip we will be at the top of the world when it comes to total management of it. Below I also think about this with the management of our predators versus e.g. resources and opportunities of the off-road industry. In such a budget debate as we have today, I cannot ignore the developments in agriculture this time either. There is no doubt that today’s system and policy are leading to a boom in Norwegian agriculture. Never before have there been so few who have applied for production subsidies, never before have we had so few active farms, never before have we had so little agricultural land, and never before have we had so many farm buildings where the light is turned off. At the same time, I would praise the farmers who endure and produce almost as much food as before. There has to be another policy, which gives the Norwegian independent food producer more freedom to manage his farm, and thus could produce what he or she wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1601	The main objective and message of the new communication on agriculture and food, presented on 2 December, is to increase food production in Norway with an increasing population, so that we can maintain the level of self-sufficiency at about the same level as today. The agricultural and food notification shall be followed up by agricultural settlements and budgetary procedures. We're already on it. We're doing the agricultural policy reverse operation in three steps. Firstly, good income development for businessmen is the cornerstone of the government's agricultural policy. Agricultural balance sheets from 2006 to 2012 have increased income opportunities by DKK 110 000 per year, or 70 pst. This is necessary in the interests of industry, where the availability of income and well-being are essential to ensuring continued recruitment. Secondly, through this budget, we are strengthening the agricultural investment instruments. The government includes: in order to increase the depreciation rate for livestock buildings from 4 pst. to 6 pst. This provides a significant incentive for the construction of new operational buildings and is necessary to ensure a viable and varied agriculture throughout the country. To make use of all the resources in agriculture, we will invest in both the small and the large. Through this year's agricultural agreement, we have strengthened grass-based livestock and milk production. Thirdly, the government in this budget has proposed to remove the food production levy, which for Norwegian agricultural products represents a saving of 280 million. kr in a year. This gives the Norwegian food industry a fantastic opportunity to further develop its products and strengthen its position in the market, as well as to pay higher prices for inputs. We're betting on the whole food value chain. In recent years, we have turned around a trend. But we're not in goal, the government will continue to work to further develop income policy. For the government, it's the nutritionist who's in the center. I have clear expectations that the management activities under my department will provide user-oriented services efficiently. Therefore, not all enterprises are fully compensated for price and wage increases. A particular challenge in 2012 will be the reorganisation of the Rein driftsverwaltung, where regional offices are transferred to the counties of the respective counties. The proposed increase in the operating resources of the Rein driftsmanagement must ensure that the reorganisation can be carried out. Food safety and good plant and animal health are important areas for the supervision of food. Attention is focused on animal welfare. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that animal welfare in Norway is very good, but this cannot be a sleep cushion. Good regulation and active supervision are essential for good animal welfare in Norwegian livestock farming, and therefore the Food Safety Authority will also have animal welfare as one of its particularly priority areas in 2012. The government also emphasises the need for agricultural production to play its part in reducing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions and in ensuring biodiversity and sustainable development. Growth forests cover greenhouse gases and are an important climate tool. We're going to use this opportunity even better. For 2012, therefore, an increase in the instruments for forestry, climate and energy actions has been proposed, including: with an increase of 10 million in grants to the Tri-Based Innovation Programme. kr. Through the examination of the budget, the communication on agriculture and the last few days’ debates, we see that there are very different wishes for the direction in which Norwegian agriculture is going to develop. The Right Party and the Progress Party propose in the budgetary position to cut transfers to agriculture in a way that, in my view, is irresponsible. The Progress Party proposes more than halving the appropriations for the agricultural agreement – in one year! It is almost impossible to make a realistic forecast of all the negative consequences of such a policy. But I can certainly say that agriculture, as we know today, would have been completely changed. Right-hand proposal for a cut of almost 2 billion. kr could also be dramatic, not least for young people who have invested and invested their future in the industry. At the same time, there is a debate in the media about butter crisis and market regulation. Let there be no doubt: Tine has made a mistake, and they reacted too late when they were supposed to fix the problem. This has led to a regrettable situation in the market. Norwegian agriculture shall supply the Norwegian consumer with demand. But using this situation to beat cheap political points to bring to life the whole system of market regulation, testifies to an entry into the debate that is more guided by dogmas, not knowledge. The Norwegian food model, based on strong import protection, cooperation between authorities and industry and a cooperative that takes responsibility for the market situation, ensures to a large extent that we consumers receive the food we want at all times, and that agricultural operators receive reasonable payments. Many Western countries have some form of market regulation, but few, if any, have schemes that are economically more effective than the Norwegian one. It has not been long since the situation in Europe was characterised by smears and lakes of wine. It is clear to me that the need for Norwegian food production is greater than in a long time. The government's proposal for a government budget is also a significant step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1634	State councils say in the agricultural notice that they want to maintain food production. He does so without doing anything about the milk quota or other rigid rules that make it difficult for the farmer to increase production. You also say you have to have 15 pst. organic agricultural production. Everyone knows that you spend twice the area of 15 pst. Organic farming used in normal agriculture. The center part also likes to have lightning trains. The central part of the locomotive shall pass in the middle of the prettiest fields of the Jären, 20 metres in width. Here we are talking about huge areas where several thousand covers of the best soil disappear – and where we actually have great productivity in Norway. If this policy is to be implemented, while we are going to have increased food production, my question is: when you don't add up to any possibilities that farmers themselves can produce more, by removing the wrong system you have, but removing the food soil with all the new things to do, how is the Council of State going to meet its objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1641	I am pleased that the representative of Träldal has discovered that we are going to increase food production in this country, and that it is possible to do so with Norwegian resources within the framework we have today, with the development of the instruments. When we talk about milk quotas, I have to be allowed to draw the attention of the representative, Tåldal, to the fact that the over-production fee has been removed from the production year. That means that in the last three months, until the end of February, it will be free for the Norwegian farmer to produce more milk. I hope that it will help to reduce the problems of the butter crisis. When it comes to lightning trains, I think it's a little out of my remit, but I'm concerned that we're going to have good transportation services in the districts, because it also helps us in agriculture to get the goods from the far edge to the markets in a good and efficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1650	Lightning should be part of the arrangement, because when the lightning train is going to take thousands of square meters of food soil, it's something that an agricultural minister should at least care about. But to another question. I have asked a question today – up to two times – to the Council of State's party colleague on the nutrition committee without getting an answer. I have also tried to ask it to the Council of State, through other questions, without getting an answer. It's Christmas, and for Christmas, you can have a present. The Council of State has said that the Department should make a communication, and I ask for a specific response. The specific fur animal industry itself needs that response, because they are going to make investments and the investments are waiting for. When does this message come from the Council of State to the Stortinge? Can the Council of State guarantee that it will come during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1659	Lynzog may, as I said, be a project to go for, but it does not have to be a project to go for. However, soil protection is important, I agree with the representative, Mr. Treldal, and there we have followed up the objectives of halving the re-disposal of soil. We're now re-disposing 6,000 targets, and that's a very good achievement. So to the question of the fur industry and the message, or the matter, to the Storting. We always respectfully answer questions from the staging representatives, and today the representative has received an answer that says that, as far as possible, we should present such a matter during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1666	I particularly noticed the last, about reverence. The Minister of Agriculture criticises the Right cut in the budget, and agriculture says it will seem very negative. The right also proposes tax reductions that would benefit agriculture and agricultural activities, with around 700 to 800 million. kr a year, a good part of which is the property tax on working capital, which I understand is for Brekk's party, but is not allowed to be for. My question is of a more theoretical nature: does the Council of State believe that reduced taxes also increase the ability to invest in agriculture, in the same way that increased income increases the ability to invest? Norges Bondelag says you need 15 billion. kr in 10 years. Does the Council of State Brerk think it works in the same way on the ability to invest?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1674	When I criticise those proposals for cuts that include: The party of progress and the Right has come, I must be allowed to say that there is a great difference between the Right and the Advance Party, in the Right favor. The right cut is, after all, much more moderate. But they will have unfortunate effects. I have underlined that earlier, and I think the Right must think about how their agricultural policy works, when they propose such cuts in the middle of an agricultural agreement period. I agree with the representative, Mrs Fletten, that tax works well, and we have also introduced good tax instruments into this budget by the government, among other things. improving the depreciation rates. We have also given agricultural deductions, which are very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1681	The Government's objective is to achieve 15 p.m. by 2020. be organically operated by the agricultural sector. In 2010, the figure was 4.7 pst., and organic food stands for 1.5 pst. of the sales of food here in the country. The Agriculture Communication calls for an increase in land use in order to increase production growth. We know that organic farming is land-intensive. Will the Minister maintain the target of 15 p.m. by 2020, and is it a realistic target?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1686	The organic production and consumption target of 15 pst. by 2020. I'm going to be the first to admit that it's a very ambitious goal. It's ambitious both because we work hard to rediscover soil, and because we work hard through the tools to increase demand for organic products. Now, after the financial crisis, the market is finally getting a little better – the demand for organic products is growing again. The redistribution of soil – called production – is slowing down somewhat. Nevertheless, there are areas in the country where between 8 and 10 pst. the soil is organic, even though we have a lower level overall across the country. The totality of this is that it's very ambitious, it's very demanding, but the ambition to achieve the goal is still going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1691	I want to leave the butter shortage. At least I don't want to call it a crisis. But as the Left sees it, there's a paradox that there's a shortage of butter because of little access to milk for the country's dairies, while we spend millions of dollars subsidising the production of cheese to export the same milk that could have gone to butter production. In Stortinget on 4 November 2009, the Council of State said: “We are not exporting products from Norway today, except for the Järlsbergosten, which has a weak subsidy that we have said we should remove.” Depending on the calculation method, this is a value of 135 to 550 million. kr, and my question is, When will the Government's promise to remove this subsidy be effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1701	First, I have to be allowed to stress, as well as an answer to the question from the representative Tende, that the cheese that is now being exported was produced last winter, last spring, and has little impact on the challenges we have right now. It is true that the challenges have increased over the summer and the harvest. Tine has mentioned this, and they have made sure that we can import butter through re-disposals into customs. That's the first answer to that. In the case of exports of jarlsbergost, there is a branded export. These exports are important in order to avoid overproduction of milk or to adjust the quantity of milk. We have said from the government that in connection with a possible WTO agreement, we will eliminate export subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1710	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1713	Work for everyone is the Workers' Party's soul, and if we're to secure this, business must go well. Strategic efforts are conducive to job creation across the country, and we are investing in the areas where Norway has special provisions for happiness, such as travel life, energy, environment and marine nutrition. We also actively use the industrial policy tools, such as Innovation Norway, SIVA, GIEK, Export finance and regional nutrition funds, and have strengthened these tools. One and a half billion. SEK to Investinor and notify new seed funds. But the most important tool for job security and for Norwegian business to flourish is order in the economy. The government is involved with the business community and provides targeted and active action when needed, cf. the financial crisis 2008-2009, where the measures came in a timely and just manner. I'm glad we have a Prime Minister in Norway who's traveling around and talking business in Norway. When Stoltenberg was in Australia on 9 December and opened the world's largest offshore simulator centre, which is Norwegian, he said: I saw competitive and competitive vital and strong. We want such leaders, not the blue dark men or ladies, who use all their energy and all their time to talk our business down. The most important thing about Right's industrial policy is just to talk business down, but what's their medicine really? Is it tax havens – and then remove the security of everyday life for people by making more temporary additions common? Right is because all of the LO's against it. In any case, this announcement was not rejected today, even if a second attempt was made. New course – well, it’s not a new course to add more to all the tools the Workers’ Party has, to Innovation Norway, to Travel Life or to the BIA. Own agricultural message – yes, well, but they could not even start until they had seen what measures we in the government came with. Ownership policy: There is a big difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party. The Labour Party has objectives and meaning with ownership and has made clear the clear expectations of delegated and licensed state companies. One has a stomach when it comes to rents, bonus schemes, end of options and clear demands for social responsibility. The working party is waiting, among others. that Hydro will also invest in Norway, and has shown clear expectations that State power would bring long-term contracts to our industry, which State power has done, of course within the EEA rules. We stick to the dividend target and the level that we're notifying. The simplification measure is set at a total of 10 billion. NOK net, and work started. I would like to mention in short: the waiver of audit obligations for small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of share capital requirements from DKK 100000 to NOK 30000, Altinn II, EDAG, electronic signing and simpler rules.no. The latter, which was opened in the fall, has already received over 250 simplification proposals from the industry itself. Then to tax-free and dynamic tax policies. Not one country has succeeded with Right's dynamic tax policy, on the contrary. Other countries are electives to Norway because we succeed in keeping people at work, and we maintain our well-being. But many are concerned about Norway’s competitiveness. Yes, we must be obs. Despite the challenges and concerns, the big picture is that our companies are doing well in competition with other countries. We see that employment is record high, and pay is good in Norway. This has created many new jobs in the last five years, mostly in the private sector. Basically, this is the best expression of good competitiveness in Norwegian enterprises. The future is created by notes, growth is created by creating and sharing. Community gives security, and safe people dare to bet. Good public services and comprehensive welfare arrangements do not weaken the competitiveness of business, on the contrary. The Labour Party has visions and goals for the future, and we're going to keep talking our business up and focus on the positive. That's how we still get growth, and we safeguard the workplaces and the welfare of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1732	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1735	The Code of Public Acquisition shall contribute to the efficient use of resources and increased value creation in society through competition for public contracts. It will help to ensure that the public buys the right quality at the right price. We have a long and good tradition in Norway for close cooperation with the non-profit sector to solve important welfare tasks. It is important that procurement processes are carried out in such a way that the competent actors, such as the non-profit organisations, find it attractive to provide their services to the public. The government has announced measures to contribute to good and predictable framework conditions, while making clear demands on quality, costs and working conditions. In doing so, we ensure that we get the best possible well-being for the money, while at the same time appreciating the peculiarities represented by NPISHs. The action space in the procurement legislation must be used to achieve this objective. Public purchasers need more knowledge about this space for action in order to make good choices. The government has already initiated a dialogue with the non-profit sector on a cooperation agreement with general principles for good interaction. An active competition policy shall stimulate the efficient use of societal resources. Competition contributes to innovation and business transformation. This strengthens Norway’s international competitiveness and helps to ensure a wide range of good quality goods and services at the right price for consumers. Markets with effective competition also contribute to the use of no more resources than is necessary by the State. I look forward to the suspension of the Hjelmeng committee, which is going through the experience of the Competition Act, and has the ambition to send it to the hearing during the period. Over the last few years, competition supervision has given priority to detecting cartels, including: in the case of information measures concerning the relaxation programme. This has produced results, in the form of a single decision and a notice of decision so far in 2011. The asphalt case from Trondelag is one of them. Competition supervision shall also give priority to the prevention and detection of crime against competition in 2012. The regulatory framework for public support is constantly developing and regulates important instruments for Norwegian authorities. FAD, the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs, is actively working on important regulatory developments in the EU in order to take care of Norwegian interests. KOFA, the complaint subject of public acquisitions, plays an important role in the enforcement of public acquisitions and was established to constitute a low-threshold offer in addition to the courts. The number of new cases for KOFA has increased dramatically in recent years — more than KOFA has been able to do. Furthermore, there are many things that should not have been sent to KOFA. We have announced that in 2012 we will review KOPA’s arrangements and framework conditions, and look forward to the Storting’s treatment of the inclusion of the Enforcement Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1756	While today we have record high employment and unemployment down to 2.9 pst. Here to land, our competitive business will continue in a reasonably demanding waters. The European market, which represents 80 pst. of our export market, has major and complex challenges. We clearly see a structural crisis in Europe, where the economic crisis has developed slowly, but certainly to become a social crisis because of high unemployment and excessive private debt. It's not sustainable what's been done. Many fall outside and the situation seems to be quite prolonged. How will this affect our market and our business? It can develop into more protectionism in the different countries. Previous good markets can quickly become uncertain. The EEA Agreement will be an important building for us, especially in the future. And the Norwegian model will also be an important base for manoeuvring us through this troubled waters. The overall model of society we have will help us to keep the wheels going with lubricating instruments, which work for those who need it in a timely manner, and not least for all parties to make a good effort to contribute. For competitive industries, it is important to have a stable dollar rate and a low interest rate. We in the Labour Party believe that this budget provides a good basis for that. There is a responsible device on it, and it requires that the money be used even more wisely and more efficiently. Stable framework conditions are important for business. The government has been responsible for continuity and stability – not least it has been important in the maritime policy with the Støn kurst strategy. An example of this was the last Friday when the Prime Minister opened the world's largest offshore simulator centre. It is impressive – located in Australia and is Norwegian. The centre is owned by Farstad Shipping from Ålesund, which is solidly established in the market on the other side of the globe. We are a small country, but in many areas we are large, as in the maritime area. Norwegian companies provide advanced products and services. Supply boats are a good example of that. Yes, we actually have the most modern and second largest fleet in the world within this specialized market. Sun, safe and environmentally good businesses have a head start. We have a good tradition of having that. We have positive experience of all employees being involved in this development. This applies not least to Norwegian seafarers. Farstad Shipping alone has well over 1,000 Norwegian seafarers in its fleet. It is the government's maritime strategy Stø kurst that Norwegian shipping companies can bet on developing Norwegian competence now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1775	In Europe, there were 44.5 million unemployed in July this year. With more signs of economic growth stopping all the way up in the Western world, we will experience for the first time in evolution that a generation will have more needy conditions than its parents. I'm sure there's a lot of people who don't like Christmas. For most people here in Norway, before Christmas 2011 there is a period when good news is actually piled up on top of each other: economic activity is high and unemployment is low. In my home country, the Nord-Trøndelag, we have this year had the highest rate of unemployment in all the counties in the country. Much of it is due to a high level of activity in industry and construction. Last week, I received a newsletter from the Development Department of Midre Namdal of the Joint Municipality, MNS Development, which is the first line service for business and business start-ups in the Middle Namdal Joint Municipality, i.e. the municipalities of Namdalseid, Fosnes, Overhalla and Namsos. The good news was that so far this year 107 new businesses were established in the region. Of these, 28 are enterprises established by women and 39 are established by young people under the age of 35. Earlier this year, the news found that two projects from Nord-Trøndelag won the national competition for new cluster projects through the so-called Arena programme, owned by Innovation Norway, the Norwegian Research Council and SIVA. Together with the Wind Cluster on Verdal, which won the same competition last year, we now suddenly have three such projects in our county. The other two projects have the two sounding trundish names Smart Water Communities Cluster and Arena Smart Grid Services. Think that little Nord-Trøndelag has come into class with strong-nutrient states like Hordaland and Oslo! What's happened? Indeed, it is primarily about good regional cooperation between the instrument actors, Innovation Norway and SIVA, the business community, the knowledge environments and, in particular, the county municipalities. The three Arena projects are all in the field of energy and the environment, which is a significant policy area in Trøndelag through a common county plan for the North and South Trøndelag districts. Thus, the county councils and the agency have all moved in the same direction. In that case, the projects will have strong development potential. The fact that the counties of regional development actors with regional development funds and targeted investment are involved and attracting is crucial in such contexts. The fact that the county councils, through their regional development programmes, provide guidance signals to Innovation Norway in its own counties dealing with regional bets on regional advantage is one of the success criteria. We should not forget that the county has 49 pst. by Innovation Norway, and thus Innovation Norway in the various counties has become the nutrition department of the municipalities. Focusing on the innovativeness of the regions and regional advantages is forward-looking policy. There is little help for innovation and industrial development in North-Trøndelag if we do as the Right proposes, to increase the Innovation Norway’s global innovation loan framework by 100 million. kr when they have initially taken away 1.5 billion. kr from county councils in regional development funds, which in the Nord-Trøndelag means 52 million. kr directly to the business community of Nord-Trøndelag, which is to be used only in Nord-Trøndelag. We don't need such Christmas events in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1802	More than 100,000 Norwegian jobs are linked to the maritime industries, based on the knowledge and competence that Norwegian seafarers have acquired through generations. This competence remains a competitive advantage and an important reason why Norway remains a leading maritime nation. But there is also another reason, the net pay system, which ensures well over 10 000 Norwegian seafarers good jobs in offshore, ferry and freight transport. Even the Hurtigruten, which is the sole flagship in the Norwegian travel industry, depends on the net pay scheme. The maritime industry needs stable and predictable framework conditions. It's been the industry for the last few years. But the stability and predictability unfortunately do not go beyond the end of this parliamentary term. The right, Christian People's Party and the left, as we know, want to reduce – and even eliminate – the net pay system. At the same time, they will release NIS-registered ships to Norwegian domestic voyages. Such a policy will immediately lead to a significant deflagration of Norwegian ships and seafarers. In that case, the ferry companies will move to Sweden and Denmark, which have at least as good support schemes as we do. Equally wrong is that the offshore fleet will then be transferred to NIS, with the result that underpaid foreign seafarers quickly replace well-paid Norwegians. Already, we have seen examples of bend loading companies operating on Norwegian pedestals flying out, throwing Norwegian seafarers on land and replacing them with cheap crews from Asia. On land, we call this social dumping. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will of course call this a doomsday prophecy, and the Progress Party will be the guarantor of the net pay system in any future civil cooperation. I do not doubt the good intentions of the Progress Party in this field, but in a government that is to finance huge tax reliefs to the rich, we know how it goes with good intentions. The last time we saw that was when the Progress Party was a support party for the Bondevik government. It was not an empty threat when, in 2005, Color Line made it clear that if the Bondevik government wanted to implement its so-called competence model, they would be flying to neighbouring countries. This means, in practice, that the scheme should only cover seafarers with stars and with strips. At the moment Color Line chooses to fly out, Vestfold – that is, my county – loses 1,500 jobs. But there is a certain connection between the policies of the bourgeois parties, because without seafarers, there is no need for recruitment, and then there is no need for a net pay system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1813	Also, I have with great wonder recorded that the Left in its alternative budget will liquidate the entire net pay system for seafarers. Thus, this applies to an industry that employs people in absolutely all the municipalities in Norway. I also see that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will terminate this arrangement and move on to the so-called model of competence. I have to say that these proposals are completely incomprehensible to me. Have these parties not realised the importance of the net pay scheme for Norwegian shipping and to ensure the recruitment of seafarers for young people in Norway? Norway has been one of the world’s leading shipping nations for generations. This has been possible primarily because our country has had skilled seafarers with good experience and a high level of competence. The parties should also know that this has had a significant impact on the development of the petroleum industry. When the introduction of the net pay scheme started, this immediately took effect by the fact that the shipping companies remained on Norwegian hands and actually flagged back to Norway, and that several Norwegian seafarers were thus secure jobs. In this respect, I recall that the so-called model of competence is also a poor model for recruiting skilled Norwegian seafarers to be officers. No one can simulate themselves to become capable seafarers and officers. This is a profession in which practical experience with theory is of the utmost importance. I have heard many times that the Left and the other parties have said very nicely about the great importance of the Hurtigruten. So now they are promoting proposals that greatly reduce the Hurtigruten framework conditions, while at the same time weakening it as the brand name it is. What will Hurtigruten be without being manned by Norwegian seafarers? I'm just asking. Color Line is currently Norway's largest training company. This company too will be strongly affected by the proposals that have been put forward, which could destroy the net pay system, which has worked so well. The Norwegian Maritime Association says on its website that the consequences of these proposals are most likely to be that the shipping company will flag its ships if the proposals of these three parties have been adopted. The net pay system is not something we want, but it is necessary to be able to compete with all the shipping nations that have similar arrangements. This cannot have been sufficiently inserted in the left hand side. For the Workers' Party, it is important to maintain Norway as a strong shipping nation with skilled Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1828	It is that renewal has always been the bearing element for the creation of wealth and for the growth. Operations and to the extent that entire industries that have not been closed down with the renewal usually still have on the historical scrapheugen. Therefore, innovation and research become decisive elements for who is being closed, and who does not. Since industry is the sector with the largest research activity, it is both fair and reasonable that industrial research is clear in government research policy. In the past, the size has held a debate on the commercialisation of research results. The situation is that there is a slight increase in the number of registered business ideas and registered patents from our universities in recent years. In this context, I would like to welcome schemes such as the BIA, the Tax Fund and the FORNY2020. In the whole of the fall, the right has used a lot of words about the misery of Norwegian research funding. They have also used big words about their own suggestions. Well, they have to do that, but I want to remind the Right that they only increase the publicly funded research from 0.92 pst. to 0,95 pst. And then I also see that naturally, the Right has serious problems defending how this would solve 40 billion. kr in the next round, which is obviously the distance to the goal of 3 pst. GDP. Nor will they change the distribution key when it comes to the extent to which the public is required to take out the research and the extent to which the business is required to take out the research. So this doesn't hang on to any of these. When it comes to the liquidation of the Research Fund, which everyone knows was absolutely necessary, there was a rush from the Right. Everyone was waiting for them to continue the system. It would also have been natural, and that was also what the representative Fleet said in his speech today. But that's not what Right is proposing, they're actually proposing a whole new fund solution. So I'm really jumping over what this means. But I registered that the representative Svein Flätten was busy racing with his own political past with regard to the business-neutral business policy. That's good, and that should be right-wing praise. Right's proposal for a solution to the fund is a new fund, with no wage and price adjustment and no possibility of real growth in research grants. They call it part of a long-termity in the vows. My point is that this question must always be anchored here in the hall if one is to have a long-termity. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1845	But I'd like to do it within speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1848	There is a lot of exciting business going on in my part of the country, especially in my home country, much thanks to a good business policy and skilled actors in both the employers and employees' side. I want to focus on a very topical matter. On Thursday last week, we met with this headline in Finnmark Dagblad: «Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck can send 60,000 animals to forced slaughter – the industry steals: fight against mass slaughter» The opinion comes from Nils Henrik Sara in the Norwegian Reinbrukssamers Landsförbund after the Minister of Agriculture had given clear signals that there will be a large cut in the total reindeer in my home country. The contents of that heading indicate that there may be some rough roofs before you are in target. Although there is disagreement about the instruments, the facts are not disputed: there is too much purity in Finnmark. It's confirmed by the reindeer owners, that's what the Riksrevision says, that's what the Stortinget says, and that's what we mean who lives in Finnmark. Despite the facts, our common challenge is that there are very few of the cleaners who have too much pure, who will reduce their flocks. The reindeer management law of 2007 concluded an agreement with the reindeer industry that they would have three years to adapt to sustainable operations. On their own initiative, cleaners were given a high degree of autonomy in the design of grazing plans and in the adaptation of the number of reindeer in the individual siida. Most of the practitioners have done the job, but unfortunately we see that someone has not adhered to the agreed agreement, and again there are the few who are destroying for an entire industry. As a result, the Purity Management Board has initiated a process whereby, unfortunately, the upper reindeer number must be determined by others than reindeer operation. We understand that there is concern, but in some cases – in this case the Reinhriftstyrelätt – you have to take a responsibility when you see what challenges an too high a clean figure overall creates for the reindeer operation in my home state. Both the Minister of Agriculture and the head of the Rein driftssteuur, Inge Ryan, have therefore gone out in the media with a clear and clear message that the reindeer in Finnmark is going down. You will receive my very clear support in this resolution. Over generations, clean-up operations have been important for Finnmark, and there is no doubt that the government will facilitate the reindeer industry to continue to have its important place in our home country. It is understandable that the decision to coercive reindeer can be very challenging for the reindeer operators involved, but no one can live with the imbalance we currently have between grazing grounds and the number of animals. We have to get a sustainability in the industry. We are also concerned that the industry should have legitimacy and good reputation. Unfortunately, today the whole industry suffers because someone has not done their job. For that reason, too, there is a sin of failure not to do anything. It does not deserve the reindeer, it does not deserve today's and tomorrow's reindeers, and it does not deserve the Sami population – nor does it deserve the rest of the population in the county. We have to get out of this situation. We know it's going to be hard. That some people raddle with the shackles, we get to live with, but the decisions on coercive slaughter are made on a very good legal basis, and they get my full agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1875	Enterprise policy is important for Norway. We have to create values to have something to share. The fishing industry is our main export industry after the petroleum industry. High quality fresh fish in large quantities are our main pretense to compete with low-cost land. The government has a fresh fish strategy that builds on the benefits of the fishing nation of Norway. This strategy also leads to increased activity on land if implemented. Unfortunately, we see that a large part of the trawler fleet delivers an increasing share of its quota frozen and not fresh. The extent of frozen catches undermines the government's fresh fish strategy. As a seafood and fisheries nation, we need to discuss this field, and a nearby occasion for this is the big banging message about seafood coming. In Finland, we have experienced a very difficult situation in the autumn, when the number of employees in the rural industry has been outsourced, while the trawls, with the obligation to offer facilities in Finnmark, deliver a large part of their catch at freezing hotels outside Finnmark. The related conditions should also be taken into account in the maritime food notification. Our fisheries policy must help to make good use of our fine raw materials. Quality and freshness must be centred. We need to discuss measures to increase the rotation of deliveries from frozen to fresh. It gives activity on land. Finally, I would like to remind you that the granting of irradiation concessions to individual plants or municipalities was linked to the fact that the raw material would be brought on land to maintain the activity. This social contract must be maintained if these concessions are to have legitimacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1890	After my exchange of views with the representative Tenden, there is a need to talk a little about environmental technology here in the Chamber. We in the government have put forward a number of support schemes and investment schemes for environmental technologies. They are liabilities within Enova, they are liabilities within the Environmental Technologies Programme in Innovation Norway, and they are liabilities within Investinor. However, if we are to have a development for an environmental technology market, there is not enough support schemes and investment schemes, we also need to provide a market or be involved in creating a market. One way to create a market, which is important for large parts of Norwegian industry, is to be able to launch large projects such as: Offshore Wind. In Norway, it may only be Statkraft – Statoil is not interested, they have shown little interest – which is the only company that has size and muscles enough to pull on the kind of project that we are talking about at Sheringham Shoal, and which we are talking about at Doggerbank, to get deliveries to Offshore Wind. Therefore, it is so important that Statkraft has sufficient equity to highlight such projects and create a market for environmental technologies, and it is important that the Left understands it, if they are concerned with developing environmental technologies in Norway. So I'll talk a little bit about taxes at the time I had to have left. When you listen to the civil parties here in the hall, you get the impression that Norway is weighed down by taxes. One would almost think that they had read on a certain song. That is not the case. Norway has a moderate tax level. If you look at the compilation of social security contributions and taxes in Norway, we are in a very low European context. So it's the horror scenario that we have so very high taxes in Norway, derails the central and important nutrition debate that has to go on completely different from the tax level, because there we are relatively moderate, or very moderate, in OECD context and in European context. Despite the fact that we have a low tax level, we have been able to have a good distribution policy when it applies to taxes in Norway, and that leads, among other things, to a good distribution policy. that we have little differences in Norway and great trust between people. According to Professor Nyborg of the University of Oslo, it's just the trust between people that makes us have a good business policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1899	In its statement, the representative referred to the situation of Tåldal Tine and the butter situation and expressed concerns about the profitability of agriculture. I find reason to link some comments to the statements that fell into that post. Tine has not managed the butter shortage satisfactorily. I think there's a broad consensus on that. They reacted too late, and they should have established the market imbalance much earlier. However, there is no reason to reflect the role of agricultural co-operation as a market regulator. It has been an efficient system for a number of years, and it is important to call about that function. If we see e.g. to Sweden, which does not have market power, they actually lacked butter as early as September. There's reason to notice what's happening in the world around us too. There is greater reason to ask how to secure Norwegian food for consumers when proposing cuts in the agricultural agreement of 7.5 billion. kr. There is reason to fear that there will be far more to butter shortages with the policies of the Progress Party. Recently, Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck presented the government's new big business message on agricultural and food policy. The new Storing Communication states that we will ensure enough food and safe food for the Norwegian population and that food production will be increased by 20 pst. towards 2030. In order to make use of the resources, we will use the whole country, and it will be put to large and small use. The government has a goal of agriculture throughout the country, and the rural profile should therefore be clarified. It's essential. The production of food with a local identity will be the main field of activity for creating new industries in the field of food. Arctic agriculture and mountain farming will be the focus of their own. For Arctic agriculture, further development of the competitive advantage of the area is central. In this, regional branding is based on unique arctic qualities. Here there is a high potential for food production, and e.g. food and travel. The red-green government will strengthen the instruments locally and regionally through regional rural development funds for arctic agriculture and mountain farming. Here the government will move money from national programme to regional level and regional partnership. The government also signals that the zoning of different support schemes will be assessed to support rural agriculture. These are messages that are well received in the country. It is also followed up a bet on the forest, and it is important. The new agricultural message states that we will ensure enough food for an increasing Norwegian population in the time to come. To achieve this, the Centre Party and the Government are committed to pursuing a policy that gives young people optimism and confidence in the future and the desire and opportunities to invest in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1918	I think I'm going to leave the butter, but it can be noted that the Glaamdalen newspaper now reports that the Swedish trading booth will release free butter to the Northmen in Charlottenberg this weekend, so I guess there are pictures of the Northmen fighting for free butter on Monday, I think. But I wanted to take the floor to comment on a line exchange with Giske, because there the Minister of Industry said that the government provided productivity growth. That's exactly what was my point in the line – that the government didn't. The government’s own figures show that from 2006 there has in practice not been productivity growth in Norwegian industry. When the government at the same time shows that there has been a strong Norwegian wage growth in addition to what our trading partners have, the combination becomes higher wages growth than our trading partners and lower productivity growth than our trading partners as a double poison pill to account for traditional Norwegian export-oriented business and also for the tourism industry, and that is what we are beginning to see in the media. I think the Minister for Industry has underestimated the challenges of this debate today. So a little bit to the Minister of Agriculture and Forest, because I noticed the representative of Bredvold's posts on forest and can sign on most of it. We have had the forest industry consulted both in the finance committee and in the nutrition committee, and we have heard that we have a resource that is about a third of Sweden's. We have a level of extraction and a utilisation of resources that is one tenth of Sweden's, and we have a level of investment in the forest industry in Norway that is one hundredth of Sweden's. It is almost a disastrously poor use of a national resource that could contribute to the creation of value and activity around the whole country. I think it's especially when the Senterparte came into the government that they were going to reverse all the tax snipers that had happened during Bondevik II, and they were going to create optimism. It was even a request decision in Stortinget to put forward a new strategy to get activity in forestry. Nothing we've seen. Rather, we have seen further tax cuts with this government. So finally, a little comment on Tor Bremer and his research fund: in fact, today's research fund is suffering from a very low return, and so the government has a challenge. Our proposal is that the Research Fund should be invested with SPU, i.e. the State pension fund abroad, and thus would have a safe return, and would create a secure framework for research in Norway. There have never been wage and price-adjusted research funds. It must be filled in by decisions in the Storting every year, and the Right would have created a very good model if it had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1929	The representative Arne Haugen asked in connection with the market regulator role what the right is thinking about. It is good that he has come to know that we are not thinking of removing it. We're thinking about who's going to have it, as opposed to the Minister of Agriculture, who said you want the system alive. We won't. We want to go in the direction that the representative Haugen himself says. He says that we depend on balancing the market – that the arrangements work. And then he's also talking about adjusting the system and getting more flexibility. I then replied to the representative here today: it is in the seats of the representatives, and that is proposal No. 32, where we ask the government to promote a case of ‘disadvantages and benefits for Norwegian consumers’ – I stress Norwegian consumers, because that is what is interesting in this context – and whether they deserve the administration of the schemes by only one of the actors, and would like a case, so that we can deal with it together with the agricultural notification. That I think is a reasonable way to do it. So a little visit to the Minister of Agriculture and our reply on the effect of tax relief: I understood from his answer that he thought it was positive, but I also think he might as well confirm that there is an similarity between increased income and reduced tax in terms of the ratio to increased investment capacity, because that was the question. So to the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party, who talks about the Right being made up of dark men because we're talking down the situation in Norwegian business – sometimes maybe dark men, but not dark men. But the Joint League held a large convention in October, where they sent out a 25 - page statement that concludes something like this: They are very concerned that important industry is being built up and sold out. It is not a dark man's prophecy to ask what long-term measures you think you're going to fix on what the LO Association is anxious about. Finally, a little visit to my colleague from Vestfold, Steinar Gullvåg, and also others who have had the word about the net pay system: I think they should notice that as the net pay system works today, it is more and more focused on subordinate crews on the boats because of the ceiling of NOK 198 000 as wages rise. So it's going to be less and less to build skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1940	It was the post of the representative Lillian Hansen who got me to take the floor – a steaming, warm passionate post with a pikant dash of irritation – beautifully performed, beautifully performed. I am more uncertain about the cause of the irritation through the article. At first I thought that maybe it was the policy I was putting forward that irritated. But a little outside the post, I was clearly informed that the policy I put forward was so clever until the Workers' Party that it was almost impossible to see the difference. So the representative, Hansen, must be the same. Then it may still be that the representative was annoyed that I was in the paper, and then I have little comfort in coming along: there he will be enough to act at regular intervals and comment on policies according to poor ability. State Council Giske is a wise man to listen to from time to time. State Council Gishe has said from this pulpit today that now there are limits to how far back in time you should go to get credit for results that are happening today. He believed that six years got to be far enough back in a lot, so that the red-green government can take credit for that policy and the results we have today. Sometimes it doesn't contradict me. At least I think it would be too far to go back to Minister of Fisheries Listau. I'm very pleased that it's Mr. Foss, who sits as President here today, so that he can give me right in that it has been a long time since Listau was Minister of Fisheries – over six years! It becomes a little problematic when it comes to implementing fisheries policy on these premises. What we have in the front lately are the delivery conditions, and that's probably what brought the representative up to the pulpit. The freezing concessions were the lifting of Listau – that's quite right. The obligation to offer was imposed by Svein Ludvigsen – that is quite right. These two issues have some common features. The time was very different. The introduction of an offer obligation was because it was rigid delivery obligations, such as: that a boat would have to deliver to a dock that was no longer there! So the fish didn't land in Finnmark, whether you wanted to or not. A region that worked for a long time was offered. This was also at a time when it was possible to deliver frozen raw material. The Norwegian industry created profitability with frozen raw materials, and there were no major problems with that. Now it's not like that anymore, and that's what's annoying in politics: you make a good decision, the world changes, and then all of a sudden the decision is not so good anymore. Then you might have to go in and look at other possibilities – and that's what the Right has suggested. Since it is now that I appear to be a true Labour Party politician through the policy I am putting forward, I expect the representative Lillian and the rest of the representatives of the Labour Party to follow us in the proposal we now have on the structural system and new models of the structural system. I also expect the Workers' Party to now support the Right's proposal in the Business Committee, which is about to change the delivery obligations, so that we can meet the government's own fresh fish strategy, which says we should have fresh fish on land to get the competitive advantage that Norwegian industry needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1954	The President will probably prefer to talk about his co-representatives with their full names, even though first names, of course, give a special friendly tone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1957	It was in any case a brilliant post from the representative Bakke-Jensen. The agricultural industry is an important industry. That is why we have great expectations of the long-awaited message of agriculture. There are unfortunately many beautiful words and get concrete action in the new message, as several actors point out. Perhaps that's why the Center Party creates press releases that spread misconceptions about Right's agricultural policy in order to divert attention from its own policies and clear weaknesses in the new agricultural message. In several newspapers in Sogn and Fjordane, we can read that the Central Party claims that in its alternative budget, the Right will reduce the income of an agricultural year by NOK 36 000. It's sad that the Central Party is at a level of debate that is about spreading misconceptions about other parties. Rightly, many measures to improve the profitability and investment of agriculture are prioritised in their alternative budget. We want to introduce an investment fund, lower the property tax and eliminate the inheritance tax entirely on gardening and forest property. The right will also raise the entry point for rent taxes on power plants, which will benefit many landowners. I could continue to frame more easily at the tax level, but I'm going to show that the Right has a number of other suggestions that don't go directly into the budget. It concerns the removal of things such as mandatory duty, the control of prices on agricultural property, the ban on sharing in land laws and the modernisation of odelslawa. It is likely that the claims of the Central Party have a background on a question from the Labour Party this summer to Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck about a distribution of any cuts at county level. The central party knows that their own government council in later replies to the Right has confirmed that the question is difficult to answer. It goes without saying that one can't say anything about the effects of Right's policy through a mathematical cut-off table. It's very irresponsible to take part in a party's policy, for example. reductions in government transfers, and see this in isolation from additional permissions and other suggestions. There will be an advantage to the agricultural debate if the centre party acts more effectively hereafter. Right means that the measures that I mention, as well as a general update and emphasis on private ownership and landowners' rights, will also be important measures to make it easier to obtain income from agriculture. It will also improve the capital and value situation in agriculture and thus create a more active and forward-looking agriculture. Right will also reduce agricultural bureaucracy at all levels. This will lead to a greater part of the salsa price of food being paid to the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1974	I want to come up with three things now. First to the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen: Attack is the best defense. What was my important message was not what the representative said in his last speech, but I am calling for predictability in the Right Fisheries Policy and, in essence, credibility. Because after my head, and my calculation, it is actually no longer than three years since we had to deal with the budgetary position for 2007-2008, and there was the Right Critical to the Fresh Fish Strategy, and in addition, it was said that tightening the universal service was not the way to go. That's the opposite of what the man is now telling! So to the representative Torgeir Tåldal: It's a real Norwegian big-time politician who stands in this room and fires up because Norway is said to be unable to feed its people. We do not lack raw materials like water, bread, cereals or potatoes, but we lack butter! Taste it! Butter! The biggest food-related problem we have in the world's richest country is not lack of food, but it's the crazy abundance we have, and the huge mountain of food that we're throwing. Just talking about food shortages here to countries is so pointless that I get hurt in my stomach. The representative of Torgeir Tjäldal may also not have found that the headlines he refers to in the media about the Norwegian butter crisis have a humorous starting point – mostly. Finally, in the last minute of my speaking time, I would like to say that it is not to avoid mentioning the financial crisis in Europe and that it could affect Norwegian exports of fish. It's worrying – it's very worrying. But the most important preparedness we have here at home is that we keep order in the Norwegian economy, as has been said many times, so that we do not jeopardize export-oriented jobs. Then we have received assurances from our fisheries minister that the situation is being closely followed, and that there is a high level of preparedness, to be well prepared if action is needed. It's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e1983	There is a drought of seeds in Norway, and there is almost a complete stop in the establishment of new knowledge establishments. Seeds are essential for creating new enterprises and jobs based on the research and knowledge we produce at our universities, colleges and research institutions. The so-called Brende funds, established in 2005, have proved to be a successful model, each of which has generated more than DKK 7 in capital for business development – mainly from private investors and businesses. Experience both in Norway and internationally shows that fund management needs to be located close to knowledge environments in order to ensure good follow-up both of ideas, of people and of concrete investments. The ability to create value in Norwegian metropolitan regions is much higher than what is currently being collected. More regions now have lower innovative capacity than should be expected in relation to their capital of competence. One possible reason may be that we do not have sufficient capacity to use the resources available at our knowledge institutions. An example is from my hometown, Trondheim: an Impello Management report shows that technology companies in Trondheim alone have the potential to create more than 10,000 new jobs over the next ten years. The government likes to set up new seed capital. As the Address Paper writes on 8 December this year: ‘As Minister of Culture, Giske succeeded in ‘everything’ he took. As Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, he has stumbled.» It is difficult to understand why the Minister of Industry has failed to convince the government that this is a necessary step to take. But it is a pleasure to see that the Workers' Party's representatives in Stortinget have understood this and have worked to get it done, but it does not help much when the government puts down its feet. We in the right eye, however, hope when rapporteur Rita Ottervik went high and brought with him the Right rapporteurs and bureaux along the coast to help the government parties to go for seed. But unfortunately, Rita Ottervik had to go back empty-handed. Clearly, the Minister of Industry has decided that this will take time. I'm glad that the Right has spent half a billion on the Seed Fund. We believe that it is an important mechanism for the best entrepreneurs and the best ideas to ensure that the labour force of the future, trained by the major apprenticeships, will contribute to increased growth, new jobs and better well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2007	Today only 8 million cubic timber are harvested, while the growth is about Twenty-five million cubic. This means that large values are not harvested, and parts of our forest values are degraded by old and rotten forests. Norway’s harvest is approximately equivalent. 30 p.m., while in Finland and Sweden this is 80 p.m. of the growth rate. This is due to several things, but economics is of course one reason – and perhaps also the main reason. Another thing is the size of forest properties and the number of forest properties in Norway. Of Norway's approx. 125 000 forest properties are only approx. 300 so large that they defend a year's work and thus a decent enough income. Recruitment in this area is alarming when the need and the economy indicate that it is not interesting to train for the profession. That is why, as politicians, we need to organise better forest management and economics. In order to achieve this goal, I believe that we need, among other things. reintroduce forest capital taxation. It must also be that we cancel the profit tax on sales out of the family. Then we will get fewer forest properties and strengthen those that can become more and more efficient. In this context, we also need to eliminate price regulation in the marketing of forest properties, so that there is free price. Another thing is to cancel the dwelling obligation for forest property. Most forest estates have only small woodlands and no residence. It doesn't have to be that you might have to invest millions in a house to become a forest owner, and thus fulfill any obligation to live. Forestry has great opportunities, but we need to provide a framework that allows the industry to develop and thus take out the resources that are natural. This again will bring positive ring-effects that the rest of society will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2020	I have said many times that I am a proud maritime food minister. What I also want to say from this pulpit is that I am happy to be the Minister of Fisheries and Coast in a red-green government, with many magnificence representatives with great commitment to our entire long-range coast. I get a lot of input from them, from the red-green parties and from many dedicated rapporteurs and others. What I've got the most shots in this fall is the concern that, unfortunately, there are too many who are outlawed in the fillet industry on the coast. So the paradox is that while we see this, the population of cod, haze and say very well, and that is of course the main basis for profitability and jobs for fishermen and in the fishing industry along the coast. The quotas will be further increased for cod and hake next year, and fishermen will see it in the quotas for next year. What I'm also sitting with right now is the regulations for next year. And with regard to the 2012 regulation, at the same time, we are better prepared to ensure increased supply of fresh fish in the autumn. It is in the autumn that those working in the fillet industry are permitted, because then the fillet plants wear with raw material access. What we actually do now is to strengthen and extend the by-catch system to next year. It will start already on 23 April, and it is set to over 14 000 tonnes of cod. The by-catch system shall continue to apply to vessels less than 21 metres and shall be reserved for fresh supplies – just as this industry needs. But in addition, for trawls, for conventional sea fishing vessels and coastal vessels over 21 meters, I want to establish a bonus scheme for fresh deliveries of cod in the second half of the year. Together, these measures will contribute to a significant increase in fresh supplies and activity during the period of the year in which it may be difficult for the rural industry to obtain sufficient raw material. The quota provision for by-catch and fresh-bonus is a total of 16500 tonnes, cod well marked, which alone has the potential to generate more than 34000 tonnes of fresh supplies outside the main season of cod fishing. Then, over the New Year, I will come back to the details of the new fresh bonus scheme. I hope that this will help us get more fresh fish on land and smoother access to raw materials. So I just want to repeat that at the same time I am in contact with the research environment to look at projects that can look at the relationship between technology and competitiveness using frozen raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2035	I would like to begin by saying that I think it is commendable for the representative Lillian Hansen from the Labour Party from the pulpit here to admit that their faulty agricultural policy makes it a butter crisis. She also claims that she is plagued with pain in her stomach. Then I don't think she's hurt her stomach because she's eaten too much butter, she's probably hurt her stomach because she's been drinking too much Möller's Tran. So a little back to what I was about when it was about the regulations and the regulators. As I had in the past, Ivar Pettersen, director of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, believes that credibility is at stake with Tine as a regulator. I can take a couple of quotes. He says in the VG on December 10th: ‘The question is whether it is worth patching on the system or whether the system should be fundamentally modified.’ A very good point. And then he also says, ‘For about 80 years, market regulation has been perceived as a security for farmers in particular. The uncertainty has now been demonstrated.’ In the evening post today, among other things, it says: Stig Terje Sunde herself. He is a partner in Scandza, the company that owns Synnove Finden, and it says the following: ‘Tine delivers more than 90 percent of the butter we use in Norway. Bodd and Sunde therefore believe Norwegian consumers should be concerned about Tine’s handling of the butter case and do not believe this would be the last time Tine prioritised Norwegian consumers’ wishes and needs. In a few years it may be cheese that will no longer be found in the shelves, they believe." It's quite alarming, and it's people from the industry themselves who say this, it's not politicians from the Progress Party who say it. I'll take a new quote from Bondebladet. There is our dear food minister quoted on the following: ‘The message is so good that it should lie as a bestseller under the Christmas tree of the country’s farmers.’ It's a saying that faith can move mountains, but here you probably have to do more than believe. I think the council is going to experience one thing: it's going to be a bestseller, but it's going to be a winner at the exchange after Christmas, not under the Christmas tree. As I said, the content of the message is bad. The NILF-Chief Pettersen believes that if you want to do something about what you say in the message, you have to add another 3.5 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. I guess we've got $23. kr today on customs and everything. Let's add another 3.5 billion. I don't know where this is going. We also see what I mentioned earlier with fur nutrition, and we see that these are the big full-time farmers, among others. on the Jären and other places that are the losers in the message. And at least it doesn't provide any more food for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2075	It goes towards the end of the debate, and I will try not to extend it, but some comments nevertheless deserve some input into the debate. First of all to the representative Torgeir Tåldal and the relationship to the butter crisis: with that as the input to Norwegian agricultural policy, I get a little tired, and I get a little scared, but perhaps a pleasure should be in the debate on the agricultural notification. This is strange, because when you reduce the protection of imports of butter while at the same time cancelling the quota obligation for a period of time, it should be something that warms a progressive batch heart. But he gives to those degrees of concern from this pulpit about the situation. What should concern the representative, Mr Träldal, is that if the agricultural policy of the Progress Party were put into effect, where one is over 6 billion. kr from the agricultural aid, it would at least exclude Norwegian milk production in one year. It is the safest basis that there is not a single Norwegian buttermeal left in the shops next Christmas, if that is the policy that had been pursued. The right has then raised a proposal for market regulation, and asks for a separate case to be made in connection with the agricultural notification. I think this is a bad proposal, but an exciting one, which is naturally discussed in the context of the agricultural communication. It's natural that it'll be answered in that context. However, this underlines that what Tine has done to assess the market has been too bad, and that Tine should not underestimate the downstream market. Then the Progress Party has called for an industry message. I think the relationship with industry is very important to think about, and I think it is quite natural that the industry should be mentioned in some sort of big message in the near future, so that an opportunity in the Storting should also be given to discuss the initiative that is there from the Progress Party. There's been a lot of work done in a very short time. Long-term power contracts are in place, it is concluded if not weekly, so at least very often, we have got an eco-innovation scheme that supports industry, and we have made great efforts from Enova towards energy efficiency measures for industry. So it does a lot -- there were three of many measures. So I think there's reason to think through it. The problem may be more Right-wing approach to industry, as the Right-wing Enterprise Policy spokesman has said that the time for mass production in Norway is over. He considers ‘a future without a major industry in Norwegian soil’. So maybe the challenge in such a setting is to bring it to the right. Then I will end by saying that I am pleased that there is broad support for the main lines of government's industrial policy. It is not the major divergent proposals, with the exception of agricultural policy, and this may be the best way for the opposition to be critical of its use of words and expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2097	Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2100	I'm just going to reply to the representative Lillian Hansen regarding our comments from 2007-2008. If you go into the notes, you'll see that we were critical of the district quota system. It's closed, because it didn't work. We were critical of the fresh fish strategy. No one claims it has worked. Then we were skeptical about tightening up the delivery conditions, and the intrusion you did was to introduce it as a processing obligation. It's not quite working either. Governments are up and notify a bonus scheme when it comes to fresh fish for trawlers. In fact, the pitfalls will have serious problems using the system if the processing obligation is to be there at the same time, because it is not possible to recover from different sizes. Finally, on our proposal on market regulation: the reason why we are now presenting that proposal is that not all the world's energy has been used in the agricultural notification to discuss and address that problem. That is why we are presenting the proposal, in order to take it in parallel with the agricultural communication. It's a defect, we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2108	I asked for the word to comment on some of the posts. First, the representative Simensen, as mentioned in the decisions of the Reinhårtstyrelsen on rules of use and the setting of figures in the various districts. A final figure has now arrived in all the districts, and it has been adopted by the Reinhriftstyrelsen at my request. That's a very good starting point for us in those districts where there's too much pure, now we can start working on renumbering. But then I must also be allowed to say that there are many districts that don't have too much purity, and in some districts they can also increase activity. So this decision in the Rein driftsstyrelsen is very important; it's a good basis for continuing to get a sustainable reindeer operation that guarantees the legitimacy of the Sami reindeer operation. So it was Svein Flätten, who again asked me about taxes and income. If I wasn't clear enough in my answer instead, I want to confirm that what you have of disposable income, of course, affects the ability to invest, and so it can be interpreted as that reduced tax and increased income have the same effect. We're using both instruments today, let me underline it. So finally to the representative, Tjældal, who mentions this point with the food message and what was in Bondebladet that it should be like a bestseller under the Christmas tree. I guess I didn't say that, because it's free – let me underline it! But I've been willing to sign, as Knausgård did, so that one can bring an autograph under the Christmas tree if one wants to give it away. I've met about. 800 people in the last few days when I've been around talking to those who want to discuss the agricultural and food messages, and there are many of them who have wanted it signed as well, so here it's open to opportunities, also for the representative, Tjäldal. Finally, I just have to stress that market regulation is about balancing the Norwegian market. I do not believe that the Right is against market regulation, and I am very pleased about that. What's the big point is that you have to have a big player to do that job, and there's no better actor today than Tine. They're big, they have the ability to read the market better. We know that experience from other countries shows — and I tried to say that in my first post — that when public opinion e.g. Take care of it, it doesn't work at all. That's what we've seen on butterbergs and wine lakes in the EU. What's the point now, is to get the job done properly. There Tine has taken thanks, and I am convinced that they have learned from these problems they have had in the harvest, and that thus we do not get the same problems in the future. But the main point now is that imports are open, and then the daily food industry and everyone can import freely now that the situation has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2121	Inger Lange Nordahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2124	The representative Lødemel's articles give reason for a comment. The right proposes a cut in the agricultural agreement of 1.9 billion. kr. This amounts to NOK 36 000 per year. I would like to stress that the Right must be responsible for its own policy and not try to explain it out. So for the post from the representative, Bakke-Jensen. I would like to make a brief comment, and that is: it does not help the situation along the coast to introduce an industrial quota, which the Right has announced in a Document 8 proposal that we will be dealing with later this year. Finally, in the food debate, the Senterpartiet will stress that it is very important for the government to follow closely the situation of the export-oriented part of Norwegian business during the time we are now entering. We will also stress that the government must be willing to put in place measures to meet the challenges facing the industry that we are likely to face in the future, follow this closely and follow up with possible action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2133	First of all, to the Minister for Agriculture: thank you for the offer. It's possible I'm going to. Then to Aasland. He says that the Progress Party should have been happy that the quota ceiling had been set aside until March. If Aasland had followed the post I had, he would have heard that I said a lot about it. I also set out the example with the farmer who stood up in the NRK today and told him that he had received 30 pst. increased its revenues due to the removal of the cap. That's what we in the Progress Party have always asserted in our policies – release the farmer and let him take away what he has. But I think it is sad in this debate to hear from committee leader Aasland of the Workers' Party, who claims that we have not understood this. If the chairman of the committee had done what he should do – read the comments from the Party of Advancement on 40 pages – he would see that there is a whole side to this. So I actually recommend to the committee chairman the next time he has the floor as committee chairman: read all the comments, and be prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2142	These debates tend to become more and more committed the longer it goes into the debate, and as it comes to its conclusion, one can be sure that it will take some time off. I'll try to take it down a little and start in a very calm way – just notify the President of what proposals the Left Party will vote for. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has previously announced that we are voting in favour of the proposed right-wing motion, proposal No. Thirty-two. Then we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 28. We shall vote against proposal No. 29), for it is linked to Innovation Norway. Hopefully we'll evaluate that for spring, so we'll get it back there. Proposal No. 30 will vote in favour of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 31. We are definitely voting against winding up the pet population. The debate has gone a little back and forth. At its conclusion, the chairman of the Committee, representative Terje Aasland, noted that there was very little difference. No, the differences are probably larger. But when opposition parties choose not to promote their own numerical budgets, it will, of course, look like this, because in the form of a note – and then it is important to also look at the general comments of the various parties – you will see the principal policy that you stand for. That is why this document – that is, the alternative state budget for 2012 where these things are seen in the context – is important. What I criticised in my opening speech was the lack of vision the government has for business policy. It might seem like they're coming after, trying to bring packages. I know that it feels good to be received out there, after promoting a package of new measures – to be received as a whole and to receive a great deal of thanks for the big business and government coming with various measures. It is, of course, a unanimous increase that has been behind these measures that have come. But what is much more foresight and much better is that a policy is being pursued over time, a policy that makes these packages not necessary, because the policy has initially, through the budgetary procedure, captured these signals that we now see clearly, in particular in relation to the export-oriented industry. Then it makes no sense to have already removed the shifts in permeability that have occurred in the context of the financial crisis. Once again, I would like to take the opportunity from this chair to give the government the support for what is precisely the issue of fisheries management – what makes us today have good and sustainable populations in almost all areas, perhaps except for the coastal cod and a couple of other fish species, where we are struggling today. But we have a way to go to make sure that this persists. That's where you have to play with the whole Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2155	I perceive after hearing the speakers of the Labour Party – the representatives of Haugen and Aasland – that our proposal on market regulation has a certain interest. Aasland calls it an exciting theme – but a bad suggestion. How can there be bad suggestions on exciting themes, I don't know. The fact that it is being discussed in the committee is probably correct. We can write notes as far as we like. Our proposal here is to get an investigation from those responsible for regulatory and agricultural policy – on benefits and disadvantages. There would be a much better basis for consideration by the Committee. I understand that you will not vote for it, but I think it is a good proposal – not a bad proposal. So just cards to the representative Lange Nordahl. She has probably not listened to the debate between the Minister of Agriculture and me on what is considered an increase in investment capacity, i.e. that reduced taxes and increased income have the same impact on farmers’ investment capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2162	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-4. [[Votation, see pages 1677, 1687 and 1689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2178	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2187	In Norway, the public sector purchases goods and services for about 400 billion. kr annually. Laws on public procurement and related regulations shall contribute to the enhancement of social value creation by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public procurement. The competition law in force came into force on 1 May 2004 and aims to promote competition, thereby contributing to the effective use of society’s resources. In applying the laws, particular attention should be paid to the interests of consumers. The Competition Surveillance Authority was established on 1 January 1994, while the Competition Act and the Price Measures Act entered into force. The main task of the Competition Surveillance Authority is to enforce competition law. The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs is the Board of Appeal for its decisions and decisions. This proposal deals with a holistic supply strategy such as: shall achieve more innovation and supplier development and strengthen consumer interests by introducing an independent competition topic. There is a joint committee that shares the commitment of proposers to the importance of innovation through public procurement. Setting up public procurement to deliver more innovative solutions will contribute to increased value creation in business and better services for citizens. This is important. As an additional effect, public savings can be achieved through increased efficiency and better services. There is also a joint committee that is concerned with the soundness and reliability of competition policy and that is agreed with the objective of ensuring that operators in the business world have confidence that competition law is open, orderly, fair and forward-looking. We're talking about the painting, but we're not talking about the tool. The issue of complaint handling has been dealt with in Stortinget several times, most recently in connection with Ot.prp. No 35 for 2007-2008 – also in connection with St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009, An innovative and sustainable Norway, and St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, Good procurement. Here it is established that the government will promote innovation through public innovation. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the government party, will point out that this goal has been followed up later by many more measures, including those taken by the government. supplier development programme and continuation of the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, to develop a methodology for making purchases more innovation-promoting. No purchases are equal and the scope of innovation is not equally relevant for all new purchases. The question then arises as to whether new information has been provided that the matter should be raised again. The majority do not see new moments, and suggests that the cases are ‘not accepted’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2210	This is a matter which has been raised in two proposals. The sole aim of the proposal is to: ‘Provide a concrete and comprehensive strategy for the Storting, which will contribute, inter alia, to more innovation and supplier development, and that the strategy will be presented to the Stortinget by the end of’ – it says correctly – ‘2011’. Now, I guess it's gone a little bit over time. We now see how things are going, but it should probably have been there in 2012 now, as you've come as far as you've come. Furthermore, there is a proposal II, and that is what is going on. «enhance consumer interests by introducing an independent competition subject for appeal and competition matters». The rapporteur presented, not least to the majority's point of view, in a straightforward way, but it is precisely the results of the actions previously announced to promote innovation, linked to public procurement, that we are missing. You could say you've done both one and the other, but it doesn't help as long as you can't show you any measurable results that have gone in the right direction. In particular, the rapporteur says that the majority has fallen down on not going further, and is voting against this, because things have already been adopted that should work. The jam they don't work, and then it's just time the Storting took that debate. The government's mission to the government is that the government is promoting a strategy for the Storting, so that we can debate it here. Then the government can promote its strategy, and not least show how it has worked, or actually has not worked – because that is unfortunately the reality. That is why the proposals have been put forward. With regard to the introduction of an independent competition topic for appeal proceedings, it is precisely in order to make a clearer distinction than we have today, in order to be sure that the treatment that is being carried out is the best possible and ensures the competitive nature of these cases. It is important to bear in mind that public procurement exceeds 400 billion. kr. That's huge sums we're talking about. After all, it should be lacking that one would not look at how these purchases are made in this room too. How can we help create more innovation through these schemes? How can they be made more effective so that businesses can better participate in the competitive edge, and the facility there, and so that taxpayers' money can be spent as efficiently as possible? On this basis, I address the two proposals included in the setting on page 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2235	Then the representative Harald T. Nesvik addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2238	This is a very important proposal on which all the opposition parties stand together. It is important for consumers; it is important for those operating in the public acquisition market. 400 B.C.E. kr – as previously mentioned – is a very large market. It requires an overall approach to the tendering system and it is requested by industry operators. There must be an industry in which we say something about how small and medium-sized enterprises can also become more likely to win tenders, how public agencies can increase their competence, and not least how resources can be better used for public tenders. Comparisons with the EU system show that we use a lot more resources here at home than what else is done. Acquisitions are also important as a tool for more innovation. This large market – stimulated in the right way – will, of course, contribute to significant innovation activity, especially if there is more competition and a greater diversity of actors. Therefore, a strategy to develop these suppliers is important. It is true that the case has been rejected in the past, but talking about competition we must never stop, and that is not going to stop the opposition. Because this is important for very many parts of society. I'm not going to spend more time than this. I refer to the comments in which the Right is involved. I'm dealing with the proposals that we, as I said, are associated with the entire opposition. Then I ask that the year be changed to 2012 in proposal No. 1 in the setting, as the representative Nesvik has also requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2251	Then it's registered again, for safety's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2254	As mentioned above, the general government sector in Norway purchases goods and services for around 400 billion. kr annually. The aim of the Public Acquisition Act is to contribute to increased value creation in society by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public acquisitions. All acquisitions shall be based on commercial legality and non-discrimination. I understand that the Committee and the Storting share the commitment of the proposers to innovation through public acquisitions. We also share the desire for a predictable and reliable competition policy. However, unlike the majority in this case, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a more offensive approach to adjusting practices and legislation. The European Commission has recently identified the amount of red tape created by the outsourcing in all EU and EEA countries. Norway is far from the best in the class. The EU found that Norwegian competitive outsourcing creates an extra cost of 4 pst. of the contract value, which is equal to 16 billion. kr. So we're going to spend 16 billion. to determine who will carry out the tasks and how they will do so. The average cost of purchasing Europe is 1.4 pst, which is well below half of Norway’s use. The United Kingdom, which has a long experience in professional acquisitions, uses only 0.7 pst. of the means of purchase. So here, there's a lot of potential for improvement and a lot of money to save on doing things differently. The Directorate for Administration and ICT has estimated that it can be streamlined with a minimum of 5 pst. within the applicable legislation. This represents at least 20 billion. kr each year for a better service offer. In this context, it is interesting to note the statements made by Minister Liv Signe Navarsete on the Class struggle on 9 September, where she says that the government is discussing the relaxation of competition rules. At the same time, she said that the centre party wants to push up the tendering threshold to EU level. In its reply to the Stortinget of 18 October 2010, the Council of State Aasrud states that there is now ‘a clear distinction in the Competition Act between the normal professional treatment of complaints and those cases where competition policy considerations have to give rise to other considerations’. In previous legislation, competition was also to be weighed against other social interests. The alarming thing in the Council's response is that she clearly believes that the government is better suited to balancing different policy objectives than an independent one would be. The Christian People's Party believes that this is opening up purely party-political decisions, and believes that an independent denominator would be better suited to making a professionally good balance between different policy objectives. The Christian People's Party is committed to innovation and supplier development in the tendering processes and supports the proposals that are being promoted in the hall today. I would also like the majority to join, but in any case hope that the government's positive wording for the proposal's intention will be followed up in action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2267	There is no doubt that the government shares the proposalers and the Committee's commitment to a comprehensive procurement policy that ensures innovative solutions and supplier development. Initially, I would like to say that the procurement law and the publication of public contracts are important both for the public and for the industry. This is a regulatory framework designed to contribute through competition to efficient resource use and increased value creation in society. It will also help to ensure that the public buys the right quality at the right price. Competition is an important tool for achieving the objective of good and fair goods and services, while stimulating innovation and supplier development. That is also the background for the government of St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009, An innovative and sustainable Norway, and in St.meld. No 36 for 2008-2009, Good procurement, concluded that it wants to promote innovation through public acquisitions. This has subsequently been followed up by several concrete actions. Firstly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has allocated funds to Diffi to promote innovation in acquisitions and to implement empowerment measures.' Secondly, my department and the Ministry of Industry and Trade have allocated funds to supplier development projects under the auspices of the KS and NHO. This project has started well and the Ministry has granted additional support to the project. The Hagen Committee on Innovation in the Health Sector has recently put forward its position and it is a good contribution to boosting innovation in the health sector. The proposers propose a review of procurement legislation in order to ensure more innovation and supplier development. Here, I would like to make it clear that purchasing rules do not prevent innovation from being taken into account. With the correct formulation of the competitive base, the public can leave to the market to propose innovative solutions. However, I stress that no acquisitions are equal. Innovation is more important when purchasing health technologies, software and energy solutions than when purchasing pens and paper. The representatives further propose the introduction of an independent competition complaint procedure. I would like to make it clear that the competition issues are governed by the Competition Act and not by the Public Acquisitions Act, as some of the submissions in the past might suggest. The proposal to introduce an independent name has been treated several times without having a majority, and I see no reason to introduce this now. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the supervision of competition is not politically controlled. Competition supervision is a professionally independent body, and I cannot influence the individual case handling there. The Ministry may not instruct supervision in the handling of individual cases and the Ministry is not a review authority in cartel cases or in cases of abuse of a dominant position which are so serious that they are charged an infringement fee. Such cases must be brought before the courts, and there is no possibility for the government and the Grand Duchy to override the proceedings. The Tine case is an example of that. Such a system is today, my ministry is the Board of Appeal for the decision of the supervisory board, among other things. merger cases. The last time we had a merger case for treatment in the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church was in 2009. Then we confirmed the decision of the Competition Authority. Political review of appeal decisions must take place in the Council of State, and this has only happened twice — in 2005 and 2006. This division clearly distinguishes between professional review and political review and helps to strengthen confidence in professional review procedures. This enables the government to intervene and allow a merger if there are good political reasons, such as maintaining jobs or pursuing an active agricultural policy. An independent denominator will not be suitable for making political balances where necessary. The political assessments will change with which political majority governs magnification and government at all times. It is – under the law – legitimate to make such adjustments. I think it's important that we allow the competition authorities to focus on the professional assessments, the way the system is today, and that we politicians make the balances of a more social nature we think are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2290	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2293	The main point of an independent competition topic is precisely that you should not make political considerations in a name, that is to say yourself. But that's not what my question is about. My question is going to be about innovation and procurement. The Council of State was in writing about what money had been allocated to get these things to – after the paper was dealt with. My question to the Council of State is this: What has happened specifically? What measurable results have been achieved after these measures, which the government itself claims to have promoted, have been implemented — both linked to diffi and not least in the health sector? I would like to ask the Council of State to explain this here and now: what concrete results can be shown?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2301	In the health sector, I think it is quite easy to find many good examples of innovative solutions. The IT solutions at Aarhus and St. Olav's Hospital are world-class. It is exported to many countries. This is because there has been good cooperation between those who develop ICT solutions and those who use them. Within e.g. electronic billing schemes are well under way in Norway to develop completely new solutions. We're looking at Altin, where we get products that are world-class. Norway is one of the world’s top countries in terms of ICT solutions for business. There are a number of measures developed that benefit the public, which have taken place in close cooperation with suppliers and the public. I am pleased to see everyone who meets at conferences and work shops organized by the NHO and KS to contribute to even more innovation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2306	The complaint subject of Public Acquisitions is an important instrument for the authorities in this area. The right has granted $3 million. kr extra in its budget, just because we knew that the frames there were tight. The new leader now points out that there is either a need to reduce core activity or to reduce the number of staff in the secretariat. I don't know what's really bad. On the question of the reason for their budget cuts, Rieber-Mohn answers that it is puzzling. Can the Council solve the riddle for me?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2311	In the budget, KOPA has increased its allocation by 2 million. kr. But it is true that KOFA has, over several years, had funding for projects in order to get away from some of the delays. There is an imbalance between the progress and the affairs of KOFA and the capacity of KOFA. We see that there are a number of things moving over to KOFA, which shouldn't have been there. Much procedural capacity is used for cases that should not have been promoted by KOFA. That is why I have also notified both in my letter to the Committee here and in the State budget that there is a need to go through the framework conditions and the systems around KOFA. In addition, there is one issue in the Stortinget now that goes on the Enforcement Directive, which will also relieve KOFA of anything, in the proceedings in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2316	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2334	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2343	I will try to be brief and not start any major and fundamental debate on this matter. The representatives behind Document 8:149 S address a number of important issues related to Innovation Norway and the SIVA and the importance of a thorough approach to these issues — among others. with a background to a previous report of the National Audit Office related to Innovation Norway. However, we have mentioned this earlier in the budget, and we have also been told that the government will come up with a case on this matter. It was also announced in advance of the budget that an evaluation and review of Innovation Norway and SIVA would be carried out. The minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, want to see this established during the spring 2012 session. I hope the Council of State can say something more about what kind of time perspective he thinks about this matter, because in the proposition it says ‘in 2012’. You need a little bit of time, and you need to get this started. On this basis, the undersigned refers to minority proposals, Nos. 1 and No 2, included in the setting on page 3. Not least, we really expect the Council of State to bring this matter to Stortinget. It's important – it's about huge sums – to make the best possible use of these funds. I have now tried to keep my post in a calm and balanced manner and provided factual information on what this is all about. A long debate on this should not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2358	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2361	It has long been known that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has carried out evaluations of Innovation Norway and the Society for Industrial Growth (SIVA) in order to respond to the objectives set for Innovation Norway and SIVA being achieved in a good and effective way. Both evaluations were completed during the second half of 2010, and then sent on broad open hearings. The evaluations – and listening recordings – provide important input to the further development of these two instruments, enabling them to adapt to their future challenges and contribute to the objective of innovation and economic development to an even greater degree than at present. Several distributions have also been carried out following evaluations, both a socio-economic analysis of enterprise policy instruments in relation to tourism, an evaluation of Innovation Norway’s excellence, and a review of the economic resilience of SIVA’s innovation companies. In the autumn of 2010, a new system for better performance measurement of funds was created, which has been pledged to travel life over the state budget. We red-green are clear that it is important that Innovation Norway has a target structure that reflects what the company is actually supposed to do, including in the case of BU funds, and that it is the fulfilment of these objectives that the company should actually be measured on. Proposals address the question of the ability of the instrument to address different types of large national bets. This point is made by most of us red-green in the back here and around the country at conferences. We agree that this will be an important question in the future. In this context, I would like to refer to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade's letter of 27 June 2011, which says that we need to ensure, over time, both that we have good general tools that provide the right stimulus in the ‘common cases’ and that we also have a system that allows sufficient resources to be mobilised if sound professional judgements indicate that, in some cases, it is socially and economically viable with public support for larger projects. From the point of view of the proposers, reference is made to the Riksrevision’s reference to Innovation Norway. I would like to point out here that the criticism of the Riksrevision concerned in particular the achievement of the company’s objectives in terms of growth in the districts and the follow-up by the departments to the objectives of the innovation programme. In the evaluation of SIVA, the evaluator concludes that SIVA’s activities are regionally smoothing and in line with the company’s main objectives. However, the evaluator points out that there is a need to clarify how the financing of the company’s innovation activities will be organised in the future. An additional allocation for the organisation and financing of different types of innovation companies is now being carried out as part of the follow-up to the evaluation. We red-green also look forward to the announcement of the big message and will point out that knowledge acquisition and evaluation take time if one is to do it properly. I belong to those who thought it nice to discuss innovation and simplification, but I still want to point out that many of the representative proposals are handled quite many times, only with a slight change in the wording. Maybe we could use resources in a more likely way for business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2387	I perceive that the previous speaker feels a little broken by the fact that there are so many Document 8 proposals from the opposition, and that they do not contain so much new. I also know that you think you're going to get the hang of a lot of things, not least in the majority comment that says you're looking forward to the message, but points out that knowledge acquisition and evaluation take time, as it's called. Yes, the role of the opposition is to make sure it doesn't take too long. I can assure the representative Heggø that it is the role of any opposition policy, and that has to be learned when you get there. Innovation Norway manages large values. That's one of the reasons why we're pushing this. For the situation that we are in, and that we have discussed several times today, about the unrest in the world, which is also gradually approaching Norwegian business, it is important that we use these funds in a targeted way, that they go to innovation, to innovation, to strengthen Business Norway across the country. To this end, with the major national efforts: Yes, it is important to bring along both the small and the small. It is a fact that not only the National Audit Office, but not only the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the United Kingdom, have references to the activities of Innovation in Norway. A lot of people I meet from the business community also feel that they are bumping into a system that doesn't work well enough. It's okay that not everyone should get their applications granted, but you have to get a sense that here you have an instrument that works for the different ones. I will do nothing but attend to the excellent work of the rapporteur and excellent articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2398	Innovation Norway and the SIVA have important roles as promoters of economic development. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has carried out assessments of Innovation Norway and SIVA in order to respond to the objectives set for Innovation Norway and SIVA being achieved in a good and effective way. Both evaluations were completed during the second half of 2010 and then sent out on broad open consultation rounds. There is reason to recall that the objective of Innovation Norway is to promote business and socio-economic profitable business development across the country and to trigger the business opportunities of different districts and regions by contributing to innovation, internationalisation and profiling. It is important to stress the importance of equalising all parts of the Innovation Norway target formulation. This means that emphasising profitable business development across the country and triggering the economic opportunities of districts and regions has the same emphasis as innovation, internationalisation and profiling. In this context, it is important to take into account the background to the establishment of Innovation Norway and the history of SND. Regional development has always been a premise in the instrumentation, and the Centre Party assumes that this will be central to Innovation Norway as well in the new wholesale notification. The main task of SIVA is to contribute to the growth and development of industry in the districts, and the evaluation of SIVA concludes that SIVA’s activities are regionally balanced and in line with the company’s main objective. For a long time, we have seen a number of examples of enterprises and business start-ups where SIVA has played an active role as a facilitator. I find reason to ask questions about where the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want with the instrument. Is it true that these parties will remove the regional dimension of the instrument? If that's the case, I think it's important that such a view comes out clearly, so that business across the country knows what these parties really stand for. I have met a number of representatives of business associations and NHO offices in our country who are concerned if the regional dimension would be weakened in the follow-up to the evaluation of the instrument. I would also like to remind you that there is a lot of innovation in companies across the country, both in cities and districts. Competence, research and development are of central importance here. For Norway as a nation, it is important to give an advantage to the innovative enterprises that have a location that reduces their access to capital. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that it is important to maintain the regional dimension of the instrument also in the new Landfill Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2411	In line with the rapporteur's mild and conciliatory approach to the procedure, I did not even take up the script. I just want to say that this is a matter we're working on. We are working on many of the dimensions proposed by the proposers in their Document 8 proposal. The ambition is to get the message to Stortinget during the spring session, so that we can process it in good time, but we haven't notified it yet because we want to be completely safe when we bring it. But the goal is spring 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2432	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2441	Document 8:153 deals with measures for the mining industry. This case has, among other things: its origin in a case from the Right in 2010 on a strategy for the Norwegian mining industry. In that respect, a Joint Nutritional Committee issued the following opinion: ‘The Committee agrees that there is a great need to chisel out a coordinated policy for mining, where the interests of employment, value creation and environmental considerations are balanced so that the industry can be further developed in a sustainable way. The Committee is aware that the world is entering a challenging situation with regard to access to the necessary geological resources and that there is a high demand for a number of metals worldwide.» For many, the mining industry is just something that is there, but the industry employs about. 5,500 people. It is used for approx. 11 B.C.E. kr, of which it is exported for approx. 6.6 B.C.E. kr. It might not be the largest numbers, but when you know that there are values for an estimated 1,500 billion. kr, you can see that with the right grips this is an industry that can grow considerably. There is no doubt that the demand for these goods will always be there, as there are a number of different types of raw materials, ranging from gravel and sand to small, precious stones, which have a completely different value. The Committee received a letter from the Council of State Gieske referring to the tax FUNN and various tax issues. There are often large investments in this sector. This is why, among other things: taxes on wealth a burden on industry. The letter shows, among other things: for the evaluation of the tax reform and that the government will not continue to work on it at this stage. The Committee welcomes the allocation of funds for the Mineral Resources Monitoring Programme in North Norway. The Committee also considers that this should apply to the rest of Norway where this has a potential. The government parties also refer to previously mentioned letters in their comments and look forward to a national strategy, but they will explain this to themselves, I believe. The members of the Committee from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are somewhat more impatient and believe that there has been too much time since the case was in The Storting in 2010, until the matter comes back. The government intends to do so in the spring of 2012. Of course, they think it is positive that it now refers to a time in the matter, but as I said, it may seem that things take time. There are almost untold opportunities for both incomes and jobs directly to the industry. There are also many positive ring-effects. There are often few jobs out in the districts and the relocation is increasing, but with a positive bet, this trend may turn around. I also register that several large foreign companies are interested in investing in Norway, especially in the north. This shows that the future prospects for the industry are absolute. The same trends are seen in northern Sweden where there is enormous investment and where the districts are flourishing again. When all of this is said to be positive, you also have to notice the scepticism you get from some other industries, such as the United States. from reindeer management and travel. It will be debated, inter alia: on the rights of the Sami people, etc. Some environmental protection interests are also skeptical. These are problems that have to be taken seriously, but the Progress Party is positive that this can be solved for the benefit of everyone. With this I am promoting the joint proposals of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2468	The representative Per Roar Bredvold then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2471	I'm really happy every time politicians deal with issues related to the mineral and mining industry. This time, four colleagues from the Chamber have made proposals to contribute to the development of the mineral industry in Norway. I think that's fundamentally positive. Then I refer to our joint comitology from last year where we were united on the need to chisel out a coordinated national policy for industry. I am confident that the government is in the process of doing so, and I refer to the letter of the Council of State of 17 October this year on this matter. However, it is important that the debate on the mineral and mining industry also moves out of this room. This must not be a debate just for those who are particularly interested in it. This must be a wide-ranging debate, with a sustainability perspective. We need a knowledge-based approach to issues such as planning and impact studies, environment, technology, landfilling of waste, etc. There will always be some negative consequences of mining operations. It's important to be open about. I think it is very important and considerate that we can extract minerals from Norwegian mountains in an environmentally, ethical and morally sound way, rather than depending on importing the same minerals from poor countries, perhaps with child labour, and at least for us, poor working conditions, which are socially totally unacceptable and unworthy. We need to develop a mineral industry in Norway with high standards that we can be proud of. The debate that has been so far shows that there is a need for expertise at all levels, not least in various public administrations. The new Mineral Act imposes strict requirements on the competence and behaviour of those involved in mining operations. Opponents of this type of activity are usually on behalf of the environment. It is not strange to say, too much of what we are doing today in the public sector is cleaning up after mining. But this is mining from the last century, and then no environmental requirements were imposed at all. Modern mining is something quite different. The law requires a more refined operation, control of the departure from the processes, and the landfills must be environmentally acceptable. The footprint of this industry must be acceptable in society. It adds the law to it, and that's what it has to be. With regard to the four concrete proposals that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are promoting, the government parties will vote against them, but we are in favour of including this proposal for a representative on measures for the mining industry in the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2488	Close contact with business operators has led the Right to propose a national strategy for the mining industry. That was our motivation when we did it almost two years ago, and that is the motivation for us to engage in this matter now. When we presented the proposal for the first time two years ago, it was justified that we discovered quite a number of lines of conflict in relation to financial legislation, search and monitoring activities, the relationship with other industries, such as agriculture, reindeer, aquaculture, fisheries and last but not least, travel life. The laws on the mineral law, the Nature Diversity Act and the new Planning and Building Act created new and major challenges for business actors and municipalities. When the Storting adopted the Mineral Act, this triggered significant noise from both the Sameting and the reindeer industries. The debate on the rights of the Sami people in such matters is important. Norway’s significant commitments are reflected both in the Constitution and in international conventions, suggesting that these are issues that should not be easily addressed. In addition, there is considerable resistance from different environmental protection interests to this type of operation. It is therefore with astonishment that we have registered the statements of the Council of State that one should agree with this kind of interest. We probably think it's taking it easy. Now we are overly excited that a national strategy has been announced. We think this work is important, and it's a point of such a strategy that it engages widely, engages many and you get a debate out in the open room, so we say we're satisfied with it. Then we have allowed ourselves to include some important points, which we believe such a strategy must contain. Representative Arne L. Haugen says he trusts that the government will include all the important things in such a strategy. It's not to be rude, but it's probably that this representative doesn't have the same confidence that the government remembers all the important things when they come up with the strategy. That is why we have promoted the proposal, and that is why we have also made good proposals in substance. We're counting on these coming with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2503	Minerals are our new heirloom. The value of Norwegian minerals is estimated to be 1500 billion. And so it's important that we make sure that we have the opportunity to take out the values that are here. On several occasions, the mineral industry is highlighted as our new oil industry. From this perspective, the Centre Party believes that there is a great need to chisel out a coordinated policy for mining, which balances employment, value creation and environmental considerations so that industry can be further developed in a sustainable way. There's a huge demand for minerals worldwide. We are aware that the EU, China and the United States have become increasingly concerned with ensuring stable and long-term access to minerals and metals for their own industry. The interest in mineral exploration has increased worldwide, including in Norway. It is therefore very important for Norway to ensure a predictable framework for the development of a new and forward-looking industry in this country. From the Central Party we are concerned that here in the country we take a leading position in the development of our large, land-based geological resources. We are therefore looking forward to the new Norwegian mineral strategy that is now being developed. From the Central Party we are concerned that the country needs an expansive mineral strategy, which takes into account the great opportunities offered by this industry. This provides a framework for the industry, including the possibility of capital in a start-up phase. In addition, consideration should be given to the possibility of setting up a mineral locomotive, which may be a driver for research, management and development of the mineral supply industry in Norway. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the efforts of our neighbours in the East, Sweden and Finland, in the mineral industry and especially in the North. There is a large-scale investment in the mineral industry, and there is a strong increase in, among other things. the removal of ore from the port of Narvik. This underlines the need for efficient transport to Norwegian ice-free ports, and it is important that the dialogue with our neighbouring countries is followed up in an overall approach to the potential of this industry, especially in the north. There is no doubt that the mineral industry has great potential here for land. I therefore look forward to more debates on the subject in the future – when the concrete proposals for action are debated in the new strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2518	Norway is a country with high mineral resources and a high level of experience and expertise in mining. The extraction and processing of industrial minerals is an industry in growth. Although the Norwegian mainland has large mineral resources, there is significantly lower exploration activity in Norway than in other Nordic countries. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating new opportunities for industrial activities. Mineral extraction is an important niche, and Norwegian mineral resources represent a high potential for industrial opportunities in mainland Norway, not least in the districts. Both oil and power resources and other natural resources, such as forests, fish and agriculture, have a clearly defined policy and strategy. We have no equivalent for the mining industry, although there are huge resources here too. With this proposal, Stortinget provides important input to the announced strategy for the mineral industry, which is aimed at completing in the spring of 2012. The Christian People's Party supports the proposers in this matter. We are also pleased that the government will finally put forward a strategy on this, but would have preferred to see an even wider handling of the matter in Stortinget, by getting a comprehensive survey report on the mining industry. We have a troubled global economic situation. The framework conditions for the Norwegian mining industry are also affected by international conditions and will not be entirely unaffected by them. Mining industries need good framework conditions that can stimulate increased value creation and profitable enterprises. World trade is increasingly focusing on mineral raw materials. If this industry is to be built up, there is a need for state framework conditions and instruments. In order to increase investment in Norway, and in particular in North Norway, capital access is important. Christian People's Party believes this, among other things. measures are needed to strengthen equity in competent ownership, fiscal incentives for design and infrastructure measures to reach mineral deposits. I would also like to stress the importance of ensuring the financing of clean-up, both during the research and operational phases and at the end of the business. The mining industry also carries with it some environmental challenges, which it is important to take seriously. I would also like to add that we believe that the landowners must have control of the management of their own resources, and this should be notified in the case of exploration before it starts investigations and extraction. In connection with the announced strategy, the Norsk Bergindustrie Association (Norsk Bergindustrie) has, among other things: expressed the following: ‘A country rich in oil money but not aware of managing its resources and industrial value chains — because you don’t need it — is a poor country.’ That's wise words. Although the proposal today does not get a majority, I think the Council of State is wise to include the recordings in the vote and in the debate today. One should not ignore the fact that there is also wisdom in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2540	I share the description of Norway as a country with considerable resources and that there is a potential for increased value creation and job creation across Norway, based on the sustainable exploitation of mineral resources. Mineral resource mapping is an important input area of great importance for the mineral industry. Sweden and Finland have carried out geophysical surveys of almost their entire area, while in Norway we have surveyed around 20 pst. of our land area. This proportion will increase the government. The survey programme for North Norway, which started this year, has a total of 100 million. kr over 4 years. The programme consists of 75 pst. geophysical mapping. By these means, Norway’s annual geological survey amounts to between 60 and 80 million. kr for mineral resource mapping. In the context of the future strategy for the mineral industry, we will assess the need for further strengthening of the monitoring effort. Responsibility for managing the legislation on impact studies in mining projects was transferred from the Directorate for Mineral Management to the municipalities in 2005. This was done to integrate the impact assessment process into the municipal planning of mining projects and to prevent duplication of work. In retrospect, it has been shown that, in some cases, it may be challenging to ensure good and even quality in the impact assessment processes of the establishment of new mining activities. We have received feedback from the industry that the device we now have provides poor predictability. I think it is necessary to look at how we can ensure good quality, non-discrimination and predictability. This is therefore one of the issues we will consider more closely in the work on the strategy for the mineral industry. A stable, predictable and simple tax system is an important framework condition for Norwegian enterprises and their owners, including in the mineral industry. An effective tax system contributes to good resource use, while exemptions and special schemes to support specific groups, industries or activities make the tax system less efficient and more complex. The depreciation rules shall reflect the actual impairment of operating assets. At the same time, it should be avoided to complicate the tax system unnecessarily. This principle also contributes to the creation of stable and predictable business framework conditions. The question of exemption from taxes on wealth on working capital has been considered in the past. That discussion remains in almost all the debates we have here in the Chamber. In our notified government, in the context of the evaluation of the tax reform, it did not intend to continue its work on the proposal. But I am quite sure that the debate is not dead with it. I believe it is important to contribute to the research and development efforts of industry. All projects complying with the requirements of law and regulation will be entitled to tax deductions from approved research and development costs within the TAX FUNN. The scheme is technology- and industry-neutral by all enterprises facing the same criteria and projects in the mining industry will be assessed in line with projects in other industries. General business-orientated unresearched product development is not covered by the SkattenFUNN, and included it is clarified in the SketteFUNN Regulation, as one of several examples, that ‘monitoring and searching for mineral deposits, natural resources or similar’ is not included ‘unless new or improved methods and techniques are developed’. Against this background, no greater requirements are imposed on the mining industry than on other industries. It does not seem natural to propose changes to the TaxFUNN for the mining industry to have a different tax treatment from other industries. The government has announced that we will make our own strategy for the mineral industry. It shows how much weight we put on the potential we have here. Norway was partly built on mineral resources. Of course, for the last 40 years, we have built on similar resources – then under the seabed. Much of our geological competence, many skilled people, jobs in the oil and gas sector. But that doesn't mean we're going to forget the resources on land. Therefore, the government has an offensive strategy to meet these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2560	In the past, it was almost free for mining and similar industries. Today, we have a lot of rules and regulations, and a lot of this we probably agree with all of them, just to take care of nature and to get a sense of what's in nature. In this case, there has been some scepticism, including: from the reindeer industry — something from travel and from environmental protection interests, too, of course. As I said in my post, I have faith that we will be able to solve these problems – if there are any problems. But can the Council of State explain a little bit about how we're going to meet the scepticism in this regard, so that we can take full advantage of that value -- $1,500 billion. kr – that exists, and perhaps that is even more so, for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2568	The mineral industry or mining in Norway has a – I say – well deserved bad reputation. This is due, inter alia, to: The representative Haugen pointed out that in the old days there were poor – or no – legislation and legislation on how to deal with environmental problems. You probably didn't know what kind of environmental problems could occur either. Of course, it was also the case that large mining companies started, perhaps with relatively little dialogue or consideration for the local population, whether it was indigenous or otherwise. We have corrected this today. We have strengthened and improved legislation in this area, both in terms of dialogue, in terms of the involvement of the municipality, and in terms of, among others. the provision of funds to clean up the environment after completion of operations. So here the industry itself, together with the authorities, has a great job of communicating that modern mining is something quite different from what it has been historically.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2575	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2578	Mining and extraction of our rich mineral resources has traditionally been a strong industry in District Norway. There have been corner stone companies in many municipalities, and many communities are simply built up because of mining, for example. The mountain town of Røros. Partial scarcity of global mineral resources has resulted in stable prices on the world market in recent years. More and more of these deposits registered in Norway are now drifting. Mining will be an important industry in Norway in the years to come. I think this could be our new oil industry. Inland Norway depends in many ways on industrial development. For natural reasons, they have not been allowed to participate in either the oil adventure or the breeding adventure. Today, the mining industry employs about 5,500 people, and they sell for 11 billion. kr. The value of the observed presence of Norwegian minerals so far has been estimated at about 1500 billion. kr. In other words, with the right framework conditions, there are enormous opportunities for value creation and development in the inland. With fewer mines in operation, the trade union environment in and knowledge of the industry and thus also the interest of capital-intensive environments decreases. In my home municipality of Holtålen, like in many other areas of the country, there have been found large drifting mineral deposits. The resources have been surveyed and the municipality has established Hesjøgruva AS. We've been working for a long time to get this in place, but it's a small municipality, and we can't raise initial capital. I therefore want a mineral steel on land, a solution similar for the mining industry to that for the oil industry. A public-owned actor would have guaranteed us national power over these important natural resources. It would have given us the opportunity to exploit resources in such a way that much of the profit would have gone into further development of the welfare community, and it would have ensured the economic development of industrially poor small municipalities in the hinterland. An actor with public ownership and risk capital could have given the same effects into the mineral industry as we have seen in the petroleum industry, where Norway is far on the road leading the world – effects in both the supply industry, research, development, education and other local regional activities. The centre party sees a great need to put in place a strategy for mining where employment, value creation and the environment are coordinated in order to achieve a sustainable development of the industry. We are concerned that here in countries we take a leading position in development – also in mining. We are therefore looking forward to the new mineral strategy being developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2591	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2607	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2618	This issue of export financing is of exceptional importance. The background and the need to strengthen the soundness of financial institutions, in particular: in relation to the last financial crisis. Improving the soundness and effectiveness of financial institutions and thus the ability to implement a service to, in particular, business, which one has focused on today, is crucial. In other words, with the capital adequacy directive as a backbone, precisely to improve soundness and increase stability and predictability, this becomes crucial. It is also the back cover for the matter we are now dealing with. As a consequence, it was necessary to assess the situation relating to export finance, such as the financial institution which offered different financial offers to the export industry, including the subsidised fixed-rate loans managed on behalf of the country. The choice was really between two possibilities. One was to capitalise Export finance, a relationship that would require significant capital investment from the other owners, or that has now been proposed: to create a state system of its own. When the Committee consulted on this matter, it became very clear through the consultation that it strongly agreed to establish its own state system. It was emphasised that it would be more robust, more robust, more predictable and could handle volume in the export industry and the needs that lie there in a much better way than what could be achieved through a capitalisation of export finance. Against this background, I am pleased that a unanimous committee was behind the vote. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Committee on this matter to facilitate a dynamic examination of the matter. At the same time, I would also like to thank the Minister for the additional answers to the Committee's questions on the subject. I believe that in the process we have come up with a comprehensive solution for the transitional regime, pending the permanent arrangement for a future export finance offer, which is well placed in relation to the need for the export industry. I would like to highlight some points that have emerged from the Committee's consideration. One is that the new scheme must contain sufficient flexibility and competitiveness in relation to what the export industry in Norway has been accustomed to through Export Finance. There is a lot of evidence that we can get through this new arrangement. Similarly, one is now pleased that one in the time we now enter, pending a permanent arrangement, does not set a ceiling on commitments. We know that there is a difference between offering commitments and what is granted in loans, and therefore it is not important to set an upper framework for commitments now. We in the majority also assume that the government now has sufficient powers to deal with the situation until a permanent transitional arrangement is in place. Should it turn out that unforeseen things appear now, the majority are very clear that then it is entirely acceptable that one come back to the Storting in a suitable way to present it, if it should occur. So as far as the permanent system is concerned, we are concerned that it should be established as soon as possible. I think it's important if you can speed up your establishment on the basis of what's in the case, but that you have a very clear progress in establishing the permanent system, in order to get it in place as quickly as possible, just to underline the predictability of a new and future system. Similarly, I would like to stress that if one comes into a situation where one gets the final discussions that are now ongoing with ESA on market interest rates and interest rate fixing under the permanent arrangement, it must also apply to the transitional arrangement. Finally, I think there is reason to stress that the system we are now seeing, through what is drawing as an image for the permanent part, can be a very good solution for Norway and not least for the export industry. I have said in the past that I believe that at least the back coverage of the state system that we are now establishing can be of the world's best class. It should be able to compete at a good level, and I think that is a good starting point for the further situation and the further growth associated with the export industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2644	We can choose to deal with this matter in a number of ways. One way could be that we only choose to discuss the transitional arrangements that we now have to deal with, or we can take the whole run until a new permanent arrangement is in place. I'll pick some kind of intermediate landing here, and I'll say a little about the process and not least a little about expectations and processing time. Unfortunately, I must be allowed to begin by saying that this matter bears witness to poor political craftsmanship. I will justify this with the amount of the case and the way in which we have been dealt with the matter. First, the impression was given that Norway could not be exempted from the capital adequacy directive. I guess you got that in a hearing in the summer or in the spring. Furthermore, one has tried to know: Why can’t Norway get an exception? As of today, I cannot yet see evidence that it was not possible for Norway or for Export Finance to obtain a derogation from the Directive. When you have heard later reasons, you have gone from saying that it was not possible, that you have got a rhetoric now that the closest thing to us is that it was not desirable to have that process. Then I'm starting to wonder what was the real reason why we're in the situation we're doing now. It is known that the financial institutions of a number of other countries have been exempted. Then I ask myself the question: when the institutions of the EU's own countries have been exempted from this Directive, what is the basis of the EEA Agreement that makes the matter special for Norway, but not for those companies in the EU countries that have been granted a derogation? It's not yet proven, and it's not yet documented. We first got presented to Prop. 34 S, and then the change proposition came to the same thing, through Prop. 42 S. So we've had a number of different correspondences back and forth to try to figure out what's actually going on. What is the actual situation? How will the current system come into place? And what's the content of it going to be? The whole committee has joined and said that once we have come into this unfortunate situation, we need to find a solution to that. Then, probably, the scheme that has been notified is linked to the government-making process – you have a greater tension that you can work for in terms of money – the best. But we'll see when we get the final case presented to Stortinget, how this is going to be organized. So just a little visit to the state council, which says it wasn't possible to get an exception in place. That's what we met with at first. Then it's interesting to see that, among other things. The Norwegian Shipowners' Association has been given an assessment via a law firm just to see if it would be possible to obtain an exemption. A different conclusion was reached than that of the government itself. We just have to take note of that. The most important thing is that we get a solution for the companies. I think it was November 18th it was called in to the press conference. Then a system was to be put in place to save the situation. I hope the Council of State can correct me if it was not on 18 November, but at least that is what appeared in the documents that I have been sent. And then they told me, "You've got a transitional system in place, so now you've saved the situation." Then chaos began – because there was no transitional arrangement in place. The situation had not been clarified. You didn't have the frames there, and you obviously had to go to Stortingen to get the money in place. That reservation was taken, but no reservations were made there and then related to what would happen to the old loans. What are the interest rates to be fixed in this transitional arrangement? You had not checked it out, among other things. with ESA. A dialogue had to be started to look at how these things were to be managed and put in place. And then, of course, the fatal thing happens: when you hadn't managed to put a system in place, the rating goes to the Export Finances really in the basement. And then we are in a situation without arrangements to be able to capture the situation if people would contract ships for a period. Now I'm talking about the long-term. Fortunately, at least the transition period had been extended until 2012, so that it is in place, and so that these orders that came into play could be included – I think, among other things. there were five ships that came into play a little bit. Fortunately, this came about because one more year extended the period of derogation, and it turned out to be 2012. I hope the Council of State can proceed in the process of establishing the permanent arrangement. It is important to clarify a number of issues relating to the establishment of the new company regime. Will it be through a special law company, or will it enter into other arrangements, other provisions? Another thing that needs to be clarified quickly is what happens to the employees and with the skills they have. Furthermore, we have a new issue, and it concerns five companies – I think it is – that have loans that need to be up to new interest-fixing/funding after 31 December 2012. Five companies are then above the limit of 1.3 billion. kr. What happens to these loans? The issue is linked, inter alia, to: ESA and interest rate fixing have not been a subject as long as the export finance system is in place, for there are loans obtained in the international market and interest rates fixed on the basis of that capital collection. Now you want to meet other issues, and therefore at least I ask the Council of State to clarify quickly the possibility that the new scheme can also help to refinance some of these large ones that go beyond the amount that is there. I will not spend so much more time than I have already done, but I will challenge the Council of State in the following area: When will a permanent system come into place? Will the decision taken today by the Storting be sufficient for the transitional arrangements to come into force? Then I would like to ask the State Council to explain whether it was possible to get an exemption, or whether it was just not desirable to get an exemption from the Capital adequacy Directive. In fact, it is significant from the situation we have come up with, whether it was simply an hour’s sleep – to use an expression – and not what the impact this Directive would have on Norwegian business, or whether it was desirable or not possible to obtain an exemption. I would ask the Council of State to explain these things because it will have to follow this matter further when it is going up to a new treatment, because then I think there must be completely different deadlines on which to go. Then I hope we have a completely different decision-making basis than we have now, so that the Storting can make a decision, not as a permanent transitional arrangement in the future, but as a permanent arrangement. I believe that it was a delay on the part of the chairman of the committee that there should be a permanent transitional arrangement. Let's hope we get a permanent arrangement, and we don't get any more of these situations here. I refer to the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2672	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2675	Let me first thank the case rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, for the management of the case – which he himself calls dynamic. I have rarely been in such a dynamic process. Then I understand his somewhat cautious approach to this matter, even though he ends by calling it the world's best order. Maybe it can be, we don't know. What we know is that this process can never be the world's best, rather the opposite. We agree with the proposal here without reservations, because this is a very important matter for the Norwegian export industry. But we do not agree at all with the way the matter has been handled. It has been difficult for the Norwegian export industry, for the companies that have had to deal with it, it has been difficult for the company Export finance, where the state is an owner, and also for other financial institutions that are owners. This has led to downgrades – from one to one that was even worse. This has led to a staggering trust in financial markets. The majority of the parties have also been involved in the proceedings here and have asked the government to pay attention. This is very serious, i.e. the procedure if it were to be such that the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian State entered and backed up a new scheme on 18 November this year, after a relatively short period of time, the international markets would have to lose confidence in something that the Norwegian State considered to be a guarantor. It is a remarkable thing for us who stand so often on this pulpit and talk about the concept that everyone knows – and I almost don't want to mention – namely ‘the richest country in the world’. But it is a fact that the downturn failed in it. There is no reason for me to spend time repeating the same criticism that the representative Nesvik has promoted from here. I join large parts of it, both in form and to the extent also in force – even if it is not possible for me. It is very justified, there is no doubt about it. So a couple of remarks about this. It is quite clear that the government has failed to implement this matter from day one, from the very beginning when you did not go in to apply for an exemption. The system has never worked fully, even after 18 November, as it gave the market the impression. You've just messed it up for yourself. What remains remains is what the representative Nesvik has pointed out – I believe the committee's chairman was in on it – that now there is one thing that counts, and that is to get the process moving and that we are sure that the process carries it to where it is going. I have to say that I like to accept several things from the government, but then it has to be a tough case to get the process, not to repair processes that have not worked. I should also like to make a comment, which the representative, Mr Nesvik, did not have in mind, on the cooperation with the Board of Export Finance. I think it is quite strange that you have referred to the stock exchange sensitivity when you could not inform the board – perhaps no more than one hour before you entered – and, I am not going to use the word coup, but at least took over the scheme. It is remarkable in view of a government that already has a great responsibility and that manages large listed companies like its borrowers. I really don't get it. So trust in capital markets is weakened in general. We leave export finance, with the commitments they still have, in a difficult situation. We have asked questions about possible default situations. I'm not going to paint any more on it, but I thought it was wise of the Council of State to send the statement, as he did yesterday afternoon, on how the situation was assessed in relation to the default of export finance. There was no cancellation of the problem, but it was at least a very clear and very useful information for the Storting, which you needed, to show us what was really the situation. If you didn't get a quick idea that we didn't get all the information. We've written that in our notes. I would also like to stress that I assume that no matter what process comes forward, I assume that the Storting and the Committee have received all the information that has been necessary, about all the areas that I have been in here, and perhaps especially the latest, about the situation of export finance as a company. It's vital. It must be fixed for any continuation. Then I have also managed to shorten the evening a little for those who come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2696	As the previous speakers have pointed out, this is a very important matter. Capital goods are an important part of Norwegian exports. Good guarantee schemes and good loan arrangements are therefore decisive for the Norwegian export industry. Much of the Norwegian industry depends on these schemes. They help, among other things: the supplier industry and the yard industry. There are industries that are currently in a positive development with good order access. It is therefore important that we have competitive export financing mechanisms so that businesses can benefit from the positive development of the market. Therefore, it is important that we maintain a good pace in the further work on this matter. We have received clear messages from many companies about how important export financing is to go ashore major contracts. The international financial market was in crisis in 2008 and the failure of the international financial system revealed. Lack of regulation created a serious crisis that plunges many into unemployment and poverty. This is why extensive international efforts have been undertaken to strengthen the soundness of financial institutions. As part of this work, the EU has introduced new rules. A result of the new rules is an upper limit on the amount of export finance that can be exposed to each individual customer. This restriction would weaken the value of the export financing scheme and would be unfortunate for the Norwegian export industry. Against this background, it is important for the government to establish a good export finance system that is not the framework of the new rules in the EU and in the EEA. A joint committee notes that one has not succeeded in bringing about a satisfactory capitalisation of export finance. Several hearing bodies have also pointed out that the capitalisation of export finance would not be a sufficiently stable scheme. SV is therefore pleased that the government is now proposing a government export finance scheme and that this scheme should be in place on 1 July. This is a system that will be robust, competitive and has broad support in the industries in question. At the same time, it is important to establish a transitional system that can meet the current needs until a permanent system is in place. We are in a period of great uncertainty on the international financial market. Therefore, it is particularly important that the transitional arrangements provide the necessary rest for export financing. The tense situation in the international financial market has led to some media outlays on export finance. It is important that governments follow these developments closely and ensure the stability of further work. There is a great deal of activity in those companies that need export finance, which I have mentioned before. Therefore, it is positive that in the supplementary proposal there is no upper framework for CIRR-certified loans. It is also important that during the transitional period, emphasis is placed on maintaining the competences existing in this area, which are very specialised and which have been the subject of several of the previous speakers. As I said initially, competitive export financing is important for large parts of the Norwegian export industry. It is therefore gratifying that we are now putting in place a good and resilient system that has wide support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2717	Recent attention has been paid to the provision of export finance for Norwegian industry. This is an important theme for large parts of Norwegian industry, and it is therefore important that we have good arrangements in place. On the part of the Centre Party, we are committed to ensuring the continuation of a competitive export finance offer to the Norwegian export industry, and we therefore support the government's proposal to establish a government export finance scheme. The Government proposes the establishment of a transitional mechanism to ensure a competitive export financing offer for Norwegian companies. The scheme is proposed to be established with immediate effect. In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, a major international effort was launched to strengthen the soundness of financial institutions and, in this context, the EU's large exposures legislation strengthened. The new EU Directive increases the capital adequacy requirements of export finance lending and reduces the amount of loans per applicant. The new legislation and market reactions have led to a sharp decrease in export finance’s ability to provide a competitive export finance offer. The government has not seen it as a real alternative to applying for a permanent derogation from the Export Finance Code. On this basis, the Government proposes to establish a State-owned export finance scheme. As I said, we support the establishment of such a system and stress the importance of the flexibility and competitiveness of the system. Until a permanent arrangement is established, a temporary transitional arrangement will be necessary. Such a transitional arrangement is proposed to be established in cooperation with Export Finance. I would like to emphasise from the centre that it is important that the new State export finance scheme be robust, reliable and cost-effective, and ensure good, predictable and competitive conditions for the Norwegian export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2736	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal to establish a transitional arrangement with a 30-billion loan. kr for the Norwegian export industry. It is essential that Norwegian export companies are provided with competitive financial services. However, the background to the case is serious for the current government. Lack of initiative and possibly lack of willingness to try out the possibility of a permanent exemption from the Capital Directive brought export finance into an unsustainable position in the market. It is worth recalling that the government was familiar with the situation of export finance already in late autumn 2010, and that both the Financial Supervisory Authority and two independent legal reports concluded that such an exception could be possible but that such an alternative was never tried. During the autumn of 2011, export finance was downgraded by international rating agencies, lost its competitive advantage and subsequently ended up in a situation where they could no longer provide competitive export finance offers to Norwegian companies. The government must bear the responsibility for the long-term existence of the Norwegian export industry in uncertainty as to what they could offer their customers at the time of the conclusion of the contract, thereby losing predictability, competitiveness and potential contracts. The Government’s promise from 18 November 2011 that the transitional arrangements announced on the same day, which were to enter into force immediately, have still not entered into force. Export finance has still not been able to address its normal offers to customers. The continuing uncertainty has led to further downgrading of the company, significant declines in the value of the bond holders and international spread of uncertainty about the validity of the Norwegian State's intentions and guarantees for the company. The continued downgrading of the company is problematic for loans already established in the company, and it is a fact that the Norwegian authorities are responsible for this situation. The Christian People's Party assumes that already established loans in Export Finance will be continued in a way that ensures that operators are competitively funded throughout the duration of the loan so that they are not forced into unforeseen refinancing with subsequent increased costs. Moreover, the government must now help to restore the confidence of capital markets in the company. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring the unique competence of export finance provided by Export Finance. Additional unnecessary delays in the take-over process that contribute to the loss of such competence will be unacceptable. Unfortunately, uncertainty persists in the continuation of export finance’s loan product under government control. A continuation involves a CIRR scheme, combined with an option on market interest rates, fixed or floating, and the propositions do not clearly indicate how to set the market rate. The Christian People's Party assumes that mechanisms are established that set a market interest rate, so that it is perceived as proper market pricing and provides security to commercial operators. The Christian People's Party believes that the government must find opportunities, in a better way than has been done so far, to create more confidence in the international financial market that the changes in export finance will take place without any increased risk for the company's investors. This may be done by the government providing clear statements and guarantees that such a risk could not arise. Finally, the Christian People's Party expects the government to use all the instruments so that there is no discontinuity in the funding arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2759	Let me first say that I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal to establish a State-owned export finance system. Export finance has so far accounted for a large proportion of export finance in Norway through the management of the State-subsidised fixed-rate loan scheme regulated in the OECD, also known as CIRR loans or 108 loans. It also provides loans on commercial terms both for projects qualifying for CIRR and for other loans. In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, a major international effort was launched to strengthen the soundness of financial institutions. As part of this work, EU legislation on large exposures to credit institutions has strengthened, and we have also taken action in Norway. One of the issues in the debate is whether we could or should have applied for exemptions. This is the Ministry of Finance's domain, and the Minister of Finance has answered these questions in different contexts in Stortinget, including, as far as I remember, in the Questionnaire. He has replied that everything is in and of itself possible to negotiate about the EEA Agreement, there is nothing that is impossible to negotiate, but that it was very unlikely that one could obtain an exception, and that it was not desirable either. As I said, this is the matter of the Ministry of Finance to assess and answer. If export finance had satisfied the new regulation on large exposures, the entity had to have been recapitalised in order to continue with the same amount of loans not guaranteed by the country through GIEK. Export finance and the largest owners failed to arrive at such a capitalisation plan, and I would like to stress that we allowed export finance to have time to talk to their owners. The state was also more than willing to participate with its 15 pst. the share of such a capitalisation as our ownership should indicate, but it was therefore not possible to find a solution that ensured a correspondingly good financing for export companies. Let me just stress it, too, that for us, one thing has been general, and that's the concern of the export companies. They are the ones for which these arrangements exist, and they are also the ones for which the new arrangements must be implemented in the first place. In this context, it is assessed by the government that the possibilities of export companies can best be ensured by establishing a State export finance scheme for projects qualifying for CIRR funding. The option of choosing interest on commercial terms over interest fixed by the OECD shall continue under the State scheme. It is true, as has been said in the debate, that we have to deal here with ESA interest rates. There we have to go into a dialogue to find the necessary flexibility, and it goes without saying that the dialogue is not completed. The proposal currently under discussion by the Storting is primarily about a transitional arrangement until a permanent state system is in place. The transitional arrangement will be organised in cooperation with Export Finance, but the State will be a counterparty to commitments and payments of loans. A loan has been proposed in this 40-billion-billion-dollar period. kr. In addition, it is proposed not to have an upper framework for new commitments to businesses. The transitional arrangements may not enter into force until all decisions of both the Stortinget and the Management Board of Export Finance are in place. It goes without saying, you need authorization from Stortinget to distribute government money. In order to minimise the impact of this transition, the Government has informed Export Finance that, subject to the consent of the Storting, the State can take over loans from Export Finance paid in time until all the formalities are in place. Export finance, on the basis of this, has continued to pay out loans to projects representing an export volume of several billion dollars. The negotiations on a transitional agreement with Export Finance are in the final phase and, as far as I am aware, a new commitment has been made. So all the opposition parties, I think, were in the pulpit and said that there is no transitional arrangement – that it is a vacuum – and that you do not get any commitments or money. It's wrong, and if these opposition politicians were state councils, they would have misinformed the Storting. It's a serious matter. This should be serious, even when it comes from the opposition, in particular because it creates uncertainty for those who are claimed to be helped – namely the export companies. According to my information, there is not one export company that has not received export financing because of the discussion about Export Finance. We must stop creating that insecurity! There is enough uncertainty in the European market if the opposition is not to put its lot ahead of the country. The government will come back to the Storting with proposals for a permanent government scheme and its budgetary implications. The form of the organisation must be carefully assessed. The Government will work to ensure that this scheme is in place by 1 July of the following year at the latest. We are in the process of appointing an interim government, which will have a central role in organising the permanent state system. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has already started the dialogue with Export Finance on the transfer of relevant staff. The provisions of the Working Environment Act on business transfer will be taken into account. Hopefully, this will help to ensure that the state system can be brought to bear the unique competence of export finance in this field, as the whole Committee is concerned about. I have noted that the Committee on Questions to the Ministry, and in the vote, has discussed the relationship with any statements of default of the bond holders in Export Finance. As I have responded to the committee, it is difficult to speculate on such a hypothetical situation, but let me nevertheless say on a general basis a little about what a default situation is about. Export finance has deposits in international financial markets. A substantial part of the funding is provided by debt securities. These loans are governed by agreements between the Export Finance and the bond holders. The agreements include clauses which enable bond holders to cancel the agreement in certain situations and require immediate redemption of the bonds. For a specific, concrete bond programme, this may be invoked if export finance stops or threatens to stop all or significant parts of its business, and this in addition is a significant damage to the interests of bond holders – a little depending on the way in which these debt securities clauses are designed. To assure me that we have the latest possible information available for the Stortingen debate today, I asked Export Finance to explain the status of possible default. The company thus informed yesterday that they had received several legal assessments of their loan programmes. They have already concluded that there has not been a situation that has given the right to cancel. Export finance says they have not received a statement in any of their loan programmes that such a situation should have arisen. The statement of export finance has been sent to Stortinget, and I do not have any judgements that differ from what the company expresses. But let me also clarify here: The contracts between Export Finance and the bond holders are a matter for which the management and management of the company is responsible – not the state. We have not been part of the contracts, we have not seen the contracts, we have not discussed the contracts. These have been entered into by Export Finance. We own 15 pst. by the company and is not even the largest owner of the company. This is the company's responsibility. Then it's like we have a six-month notice period on the 108 orders we have in Export Finance. We've always had that, and that's what we're using right now. It has been known when each bond has been entered into. So if there's created uncertainty about the export finance situation, at least it's not because of the state, because we've done what we're entitled to after the contract. We're saying that we're now going to make our own arrangement, we're going to end our contractual relationship with Export Finance. But nevertheless, we say that export finance should handle the transitional system, export finance is important to us, and we have a ownership of export finance that we should also care for. I have to say it is quite remarkable that the opposition writes in its comments – at the latest now the Christian People's Party said so, but all three parties write it – that it is now important that: ‘The government in the further progress of the case uses its authority to re-establish international confidence in the ability of export finance to meet its commitments entered into during the decommissioning phase with the State in its back’. What does that mean? Does that mean that we should provide state guarantees for the entire export finance deposit portfolio for 120 billion bonds? kr – or what it is? Does that mean that we should say that this is a private institution – like any other bank in which we own, or do not have ownership – that wants a completely different guarantee from the state than anyone else? Yes, we have measures in the financial industry when there are problems, whether we set up with credit lines or we do other things – we've even taken over banks when it's necessary. But I would like the opposition to elaborate on that point – what you really mean by putting ‘with the state in the back’ of a private export finance institution, which has mainly private owners. But let me say in all the Christmas terms that I'm still very happy that the committee joins the proposal. With the information now available, it must mean that we are jointly and severally responsible for this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2807	First of all, I would like to ask the Council of State to read the minutes from my post. It was found that we refer to the transitional regime. But from that time, 18 November, when – I kept saying – the press conference came up and told them that a transitional arrangement was in place, not all things were in order. So I'm going to ask the Council to read the minutes, and he might come back to it. My question to the Council of State is this: When was it that the Ministry of Industry and Trade was aware of the consequences of this Capital Directive, linked to Export Finance and its customers? Because you can get the impression that it happened in the autumn – or that you were first made aware of what kind of consequences this could have, when you went from 6.8 to 1.3 billion. kr in guarantees to an individual company. I ask the Council of State to explain when the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade became aware of the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2814	The fact that the new EU capital requirements became applicable to export finance and that it was known long before the autumn of 2011 is in the nature of the case by the fact that export finance had actually received a temporary exemption scheme. How would an exemption scheme be granted to export finance in 2011 if one had not known that an exemption scheme was needed? Well, that's obvious. It's a natural context. Then it is the responsibility of the Board of Export Finance and Export Finance to engage in a dialogue with the owners and find out how the institution is to deal with the new capital adequacy requirements. That's not the task of the state. Not even like 15 pst. owner of export finance, you can transfer that responsibility to us. But we said, we're willing to join our share and maybe even discuss being on more than our share, but it wasn't possible to find a capitalization that kept our goal. Then we also have to take responsibility for the export companies, and that is what we are doing now, through a state system. But to the record: it is in the setting from the opposition parties that the transitional regime ‘still not operationalised’, and that is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2821	As far as I know, the transitional regime has reservations about several things. One reservation is the approval of Stortinge. It was not in place at that time, because the allocation was not given. Ergo was not a reality then, so it is a record that says there. Point two: The relationship with ESA had not yet been clarified — it was in dialogue with the Department itself, according to information. I won't dwell on this. My questions to the Council of State in the follow-up to this are: When does the Council of State consider that work on a permanent scheme could be in place? A transitional arrangement is only temporary. There is still uncertainty about the company Export finance about what is going to happen. Will it be a special law company? Will it be incorporated into someone else, or what will happen? That's why it's important to get it in place. When will such a thing come?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2830	As the transitional regime will be in place until 1 July, it would be preferable for the Storting to deal with it before the summer holiday takes place – so it will be during the spring 2012 season. It is true that the transitional arrangements are not in place until the Grand Duchy has taken its decision on the allocation. But that's not what's in the setting. What it says is that the transitional system ‘not operationalised’ and that is incorrect. Commitments have been made, and the following companies have also received payments after 18 November – which was otherwise a perfectly correct date from the representative of Nesvik: National Oilwell, Kristiansand, STX Aukra, Aker – and National Oilwell in Kristiansand – and Kleven Maritime. That's a total of 2.2 billion. kr paid, so we have to stop creating the insecurity of the hundreds of workers present in these companies, because the money comes, and the system works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2837	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is so far the last replicate recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2840	Happy are the last! As indicated in the proposal, the ESA reference rate is ‘as floor’ for the interest rate on CIRR-favored market loans and contacts with ESA have been established on the new export financing scheme. In order to be a little ‘small chlorete’, it is said that the ESA was asked by letter of 6 December to confirm the ministry’s understanding of the method of fixing the interest rate. Now it was like going out with a high knee and party fireworks already on 18 November and saying that everything was in place. What is the reason why it took three weeks to put the question to ESA about such an important part? We are used to the fact that it may often take a long time to get an answer, but most of the time it uses to go reasonably well to send questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2849	I'm probably afraid that the process of ESA can take longer than that the number of weeks can be counted on a couple of hands, to say it like that. It'll take time. What's unproblematic right now is that there's not so much difference between CIRR and market interest rates, so for the borrowers, it doesn't matter that much. So this is probably a longer term question. To explain the issue: when you have a government institution, a government scheme for loans to be on market terms, you have to make sure that there is no government subscription to it. You do that by tagging that rate at the ESA rate. The problem with the ESA rate is that it is usually adjusted only once a year, and it becomes too flexible for such an export finance scheme, so we need to find a good dialogue. Denmark has institutions that have a more flexible system. Denmark is subject to exactly the same legislation as us. So I would think it would be possible to find practical solutions to this, but it probably requires a fairly comprehensive dialogue with ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2856	That was actually a pretty good answer. Now it is that it was given the impression that everything was clear on 18 November – that everything was just wealth – cracks a little after a while. And it's complicated, this -- we're also aware of that. A little question to the Council of State: does he know about other mechanisms that make us eventually have to send more letters before we get these things in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2865	No, the OECD Code is the basis for the whole scheme. Then we have to look at how we construct this new institution. We haven't quite decided whether it should be a special law company, or whether it should be a state agency, or how we do it. That's what we get when we make the construction itself. However, as this is a well-established system that exists in very many countries, including in EEA countries, I do not think it would be a problem, although the construction itself may have to go to ESA in order to clarify the state aid rules. So there I feel very safe. It is only with regard to interest rates that we need to engage in a dialogue in order to find a slightly more practical solution than the legislation suggests. Let me also just say if what was mentioned here – I think it was from the Right – that those who have loans in the scheme, and who are going to refinance along the way, can come under the new scheme. In fact, it is stated in the proposition that it has been taken care of so that the companies that need refinancing during the lifetime of the loan can feel confident that they will also be included in the new scheme. Here, State Council Trond Giese goes to the diplomat lodge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2874	Then there will be another line – and the last – from the representative Harald T. Nesvik, and it is nice if the Council of State Gishe will also stay here and respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2878	I wasn't on my way to the Christmas party, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2883	I expect the Council of State to take the bureaucracy afterwards. My question to the Council of State is an extension of the second answer that the Council of State gave me, when we could expect to get a case. The clock of damage, and not least the process we've been through now – we got a response to the last letter, the last recorded one day ago – it's okay that Stortingen gets a certain amount of time to deal with this. With regard to the issue of entry into force, which we fully support – it may come even earlier if it is possible – we hope that it will be presented to the Stortinget relatively early in the spring session, so that we can both take the hearings that are going to, and other things, for proper treatment, because this is a big and complicated matter, and that is a huge sum we are talking about. That is why I ask the Council of State to ensure that this matter comes to Stortinget at least around Easter hours at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2892	It is not difficult to understand that the Storting wants longer time than what you had in this case. Of course, we should make the best possible possible arrangements for a thorough treatment of the permanent scheme during the spring of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2897	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2900	Export-oriented business is sensitive to market uncertainties to which they relate. It is therefore extremely important that we have instruments that both provide predictability and competitive framework conditions. During the financial crisis, instruments such as Innovation Norway, GIEK, Export finance and Argentina became important instruments for vulnerable business. One of the most important tools in that box is export financing. Today's CIRR loan scheme has been in place since 1978 and has worked well. It is therefore important that this mechanism be maintained also through the implementation of the Capital adequacy Directive, and that is a complex task. The case has also created a high level of involvement among different actors. Especially Norsk Industrie, Norway’s Shipowners’ Association, LO and Maritimt Forum have been on the agenda, and they also came to the hearing when the Committee did. The wish of the industry has been to have a permanent arrangement, and the answer to that will be a stately, new arrangement. The industry is also committed to maintaining opportunities to choose market interest rates in the new scheme, and it is working towards ESA. But you're waiting impatiently for that answer. There is no doubt that those who are going to deal with the new scheme need to get up quickly. There is a lot of expertise in export finance, and I trust that the Minister of Industry will focus on the relationship with business transfer or not, and that the necessary skills will be put in place. We can ask ourselves, after this decision, if we've got everything in place and can calm down. Well, maybe it'll show you the time. But after careful work both by the department and by the committee, this has been a priority matter to be put in place quickly. So now it's important for us to get this through as fast as possible. That is why I have deleted almost my entire post – because this is so urgent, and now I am very happy that we have come to the end of this procedure! I am looking forward to a system that provides continuity, predictability and competence, adapted to the needs of the industry, and we are going to help them well through the challenging times ahead – both export finance and other existing schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2915	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2918	I just need to comment on one comment in the vote, because – as a former Prime Minister has said – I know the loop at the time. I see that there are questions about what has been informed about the Storting, and what has not been informed about the Storting. This is a complicated matter, and it involves many factors in the markets. It is also the case that it is always demanding to deal with business secrets on the one hand, while at the same time ensuring that the Stortinge gets all relevant information for the proceedings on the other. We've taken the last of them into account. The members of the opposition write in the setting: ‘These members therefore assume that the Ministry is not aware of the information and documentation from Export Finance or others in the case of default hazards which give the Ministry reason to consider the situation differently from that which has been done in the light of the information provided in the company’s press release dated 23 November 2011.’» When the members of the opposition write this, it's right in that way that we have no assessment of the default risk other than that of Export Finance. We base their assessment, and we don't have any legal investigations on our own that deviate from what export finance says. But that does not mean that we can guarantee that such a situation has not arisen, because we do not know the details of these contracts – there are legal, complex questions between the export finance and the bond lenders. But let there be no doubt: a declaration of default that is held up in a Japanese right, or that the trustee of the arrangements comes to light, is a serious situation. In the worst case, all the bonds must be honoured immediately. The company is obviously in a difficult situation. But as I said, we have no other assessment than the export finance of this, and that's the assessments that we're basing on. Ultimately, export finance is the responsibility of the State; it is not the State that has concluded these contracts. We are an owner of 15 pst, and we have used the opportunity we have, to say that 108 schemes no longer, on a permanent basis, are to be managed by Export Finance. They shall be transferred to a State scheme. So these bondholders say that it's just that we're using the six-month notice period that's one of the arguments to be able to discuss default. Again, having such a six-month notice period is a relationship that has been known all along. So you have to be very clear about what is the state's decision, what is the state's responsibility, and what is the company's responsibility. But for the sake of the debate – for I suppose it will continue in the media – the opposition must explain what is meant by the sentence that we should ensure that export finance stands by its commitments «with the state in the back». Does it guarantee the entire deposit capital of Export Finance? Well, it doesn't make sense in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2939	I have followed the debate with great interest, for this is a very important debate. I am absolutely sure that there is a complicated balance between what you can inform about and how you can obtain information. That's also why I wanted to make a small comment. I remember well when the Export Finance case appeared, and it was during the consultation on the budget in the Financial Committee. Then there was a cry for help from the industry, and it was obvious that it burned in many places. The fact that the Council of State says that you did not know that you had to apply for an exception, I find it strange to hear – simply – because it must have been quite obvious, and I think you should have known that. This case has emerged in a huge labyrinth situation internationally with regard to the financial market. I'm not going to say who's right, but there must have been something wrong about how the export finance situation is communicated out, because if you've been in the media, there's been violent reactions out there with international investors around the situation. It is clear that a downgrading of export finance, a sharp fall in the value of debt securities issued by Export Finance – all of this – must be taken into account that creates a rather serious situation in the Norwegian financial market. I hardly think you have heard the last word when it comes to waves after the matter. That's basically what I wanted to comment on. At least we will take this lesson – even though I experience a very offensive Council of State – that these are issues that are extremely sensitive to Norway’s situation outside, and it can quickly spread to quite a number of other institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2950	First, I just want to say to the previous speaker that it's wrong that we didn't know about – as I said in the answer, I think it was to Nesvik – the fact that we gave Export Finance a year's exception, in the first round of 2011, then in the next round of 2012. That shows that we knew they needed exceptions. It's almost impossible to give exceptions without knowing that you need it. If you need an exception, you have to know what legislation you need exceptions from. That would be an answer to that. Then I agree that the whole issue could hardly have come at a worse time, in the sense that the international financial markets are unstable. But that is precisely why this legislation comes, because the EU has seen – and Norway has seen – that the systems we had, which led to the financial crisis, were not stable enough – that we borrowed money from each other, that we had too little equity coverage, and that we had to have more soundness in banks. I think we're all good at getting these rules, so that the financial crisis doesn't repeat itself. But then I have to ask again: what does it mean that the state should set itself up for export finance, so that you can meet your commitments «with the state in your back»? I believe the representative from the Christian People's Party even said to guarantee, so that no investors would lose. This is a private institution, in a private market, for which it is now believed that the Stortinge must guarantee. I'm going to ask until the Christmas parties in the groups are over, if we don't get an answer from the opposition: what does it mean that the state is going to make sure that export finance is up to its commitments? Does that mean a guarantee? Does it mean billions of equity? Does it mean anything else that we haven't thought about? It must be possible to answer what you mean by your own comments, as it says here, and it was said in the speeches as well – we can wait for the minutes. But you have to answer that. It says on page 16 in my position – there may be a little different pagination – so you can find it, but I assume you know about where it says: ‘with the state in your back’. What does it mean, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that have written it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2961	Harald T. Nesvik is currently the last recorded speaker, but the Council of State Giske has already warned that if it doesn't get black, he will redraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2964	The councils will have to take as many posts as he likes. It's always interesting to listen to the Council of States. The background for this matter has come, we have not received an answer. I simply asked the Council of State that question initially. What happened, which first said that Norway could not get an exception, and then it was that it was not desirable to get an exception? In the answer from the Council of State there was nothing further said about it. The Council of State says that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. No, it's actually part of this case, because that's what makes this case come. So to the challenge of the Council of State. The matter that we have on the table is a consequence of the government's handling of the matter itself. These include: I have added to it, and as I also said in my post, that in part of the agreements that are linked to this – among other things. some large exposures, that's what the Council of State itself says, these five large ones, you should be able to get a refinancing. It is to be able to follow up the portfolio that you already have, to ensure that these companies do not get into an unfortunate situation as a result of the conversion that is taking place. That's what you have to do when the new permanent system comes into place. The state has a commitment today through its 15 p.m., also towards this company. With regard to the management of this portfolio that will have to be carried out in retrospect, the State must take its part to ensure that it is done in a proper and fair manner and that some structures around this company do not cause a downfall. That is what is meant by, among other things, me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2974	It is not something I have found, but a constitutional fact that the Minister of Finance is responsible for the regulation of the financial institutions in Norway, and that he is also the one who has to answer the Biggest question. But I think I refer him quite correctly when I say that everything is possible to negotiate with our EEA partners in terms of relations around the EEA Agreement. However, the question is whether it is particularly realistic to achieve it and whether it is particularly appropriate to do so. What I have seen the Minister of Finance have said is that it would not have been particularly realistic or appropriate if Norway had been a driver of stronger financial regulation, and that it would be strange for Norway at first opportunity to ask for an exemption for its own institution, especially when there were other, very useful, solutions. I was more confused by the response of the representative Nesvik, because now it seemed as if you were going to meet all your loan commitments, that is, export finance is going to distribute money to those you have lent. Of course you have to do that. We shall ensure throughout the transitional period that export finance can do, because it is the State that is the counterparty to these loans, it is the State that, through Export Finance, lends money to the companies around these export contracts. I have always seen this sentence as Export finance being the responsibility of all its depositors, i.e. to all the bondholders of Export finance – it is about many, many tens of billions of dollars – with which Export finance has signed a contract on a private basis, of course with the state as its owner and, of course, with the state as a co-player, in the sense that we have always believed that Export finance is an important institution. But when you say that you have to live up to your commitments with the state in your back, I have to repeat the question: is this also true of the borrowing obligations, that is, the obligations you have with all the bondholders around the world who have given loans to Export Finance? That's what's the key question here. That's where such a guarantee will come into the picture. In the case of loans to enterprises, the transitional arrangements will fully provide for the capital to be provided, including for those enterprises that need refinancing during the duration of the loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2985	Only a short post. Now the Council of State has asked the same question two or three times. I think a note should be read and interpreted as the Council of State wishes. If he thinks it is so unclear that he is not quite able to find out, he will come back to Stortinget with a matter and ask for a clarification on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2990	Then the next speaker is Trond Giske. The Rules of Procedure provide an opportunity for the relevant Council of State and the Advocate General to take the floor more than twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e2995	There isn't a question hour where state councils can ask big business representatives, even if we sometimes try to do it in the question-society. But it is precisely in the debate on the vote that these clarifications must come. I have to say that as a government council in the field, I do not understand after Nesvik's comments about this remark, meaning that the state should stand in the back of Export Finance and ensure that those who are receiving loans from Export Finance are sure of their money, or if it means that those who have lent to Export Finance will get their money. That is why I am asking here – that is the relevant debate for such questions – to clarify what the vote means. But if the opposition doesn't really know the answer to that, I guess we'll just wish each other a good Christmas and bet that there'll be good group parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3000	It is possible it was a little early to wish Christmas, for now the representative Per-Kristian Foss has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3003	It's to give the council a little Christmas peace. The fact that the Council of State does not understand a wording in a position is the problem of the Council of State. The Council of State cannot force any more responses than what is in the resolution, and the Council of State must live with it. If there is a problem, either in the constitutional sphere of the Council of State or in the area discussed here, as far as I understand, after the Council of State's own reply, is in the constitutional sphere of the Minister of Finance, yes, he should address it with the Minister of Finance concerned and possibly come back to the Grand Duchy on his own matter. You don't need a question time to ignore the Greatness's vision. You can do that through any document. Otherwise, I would like to join the Council of State's request for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The debate on substance is closed. 8 is thus closed – at least in this room. [[Fooding, see page 1691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3020	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3030	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-10, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 11-26, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 27, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 28-31, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 32, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1–27 is included on pages 84 and 85 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 28-32 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a Swedish model Rule Board.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3070	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a separate grant scheme under Innovation Norway targeted at the start-up phase of start-up companies with high growth potential.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3087	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the system of export aid for cheese production.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3104	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the closure of fur animal husbandry in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3119	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to reintroduce the stockpiling of cereals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3134	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a case of disadvantages and benefits for Norwegian consumers by managing the existing market regulation schemes only by one of the market players and asking for the case to be dealt with by the Storting together with the agricultural notification.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3151	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 20, from the Advance Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the innovation instruments of Norway, making them more nationwide and accessible to all applicants.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the export quota for fish and fishery products from sport fishing.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3175	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–13, 15–19 and 21–26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to propose an extension of the Argentum model with fund-in-fund investments to three new funds.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the presentation of the revised budget for 2012, to submit proposals for an adjustment to the ceiling on the reimbursement of seafarers’ employment to take account of the increase in wages and prices from 1 July 2008 until spring 2012 onwards.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government through the Innovation Norway mission document for 2012 to set aside 20 million. krona of the Innovation Furniture programme.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government through the Innovation Norway mission document for 2012 to set aside 5 million. SEK for the upgrade of films related to the Epcot Centre in Disneyland.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy for red tape on the framework conditions of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2012.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the law on the marketing of raw fish and the law on participation with a view to modernisation and simplification.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests a review of the excise duty burden imposed on the fisheries and aquaculture industry for the purpose of cleaning up and reduction.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking to facilitate growth in the aquaculture industry through the establishment of new concessions’. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the concession provisions for farmed salmonids in order to grant pure trout concessions in areas where the wild species is particularly vulnerable.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the concession law.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to repeal the regulation of pig and poultry production.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the slaughter of tamrein on Finnmarksvidda is initiated in order to avoid major animal diseases beyond the winter.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a notification of flooding during 2012.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to oblige the company to intensify the arrears of the forest properties and other real estate owned by the State Forest SF today.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3259	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–7, 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the self-financing principle during 2012.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for better coordination of marine research with the fishing industry so that the needs of the industry are more focused than is the case today. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2012.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for the red tape of the agricultural industry’s framework conditions presented during 2012.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the development and marketing of niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer management agreement to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3304	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own report on industrial policy and conditions in the future in 2012’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the competitive aspects of the current system of agricultural information offices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3327	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide, as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2012, a cost overview and a progress plan to stop pollution from the mines closed in Sulitjelma in order to start a new extraction of ore.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the appropriateness of being a member of the International Whaling Commission in view of the countering of Norwegian interests in the whaling matter.’ [[IWC]] The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e3351	It shall now be consulted on the position of the Committee under A, Framework Area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e5014	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e5027	It shall be consulted on the position of the Committee under B, Framework Section 10. The Committee had set up: B Frame area 10 [[Fishing]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e5505	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e5518	It shall be consulted on the position of the Committee under C, Framework Area 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e6851	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7672	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The President noted that the proposers had corrected the year in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It's going to be 2012. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the procurement rules for public acquisitions and to present a concrete and comprehensive strategy for the Storting, which will contribute, inter alia, to more innovation and supplier development, and that the strategy be presented to the Stortinget by the end of 2011.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen consumer interests by introducing an independent competition topic for the appeal of competition cases.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7708	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide the notified notification of the follow-up to the Innovation Norway and SIVA evaluation during the spring 2012 session.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7736	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, which reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the paper explains how the instrument, including Innovation Norway, can achieve better objectives, including how the instrument can better meet major investments and contribute better to innovation and innovation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7756	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the government of the notified strategy to present a national monitoring programme to monitor the identification of new sites, known occurrences and areas with a high potential for new occurrences.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government of the notified strategy is asked to account for the benefits and disadvantages of carrying out impact assessments by the Directorate for Mineral Management.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the notified strategy to assess the framework conditions for the mining industry, including the impact of the tax system on the mining industry during the exploration and exploitation phase and the impact on industry if the tax on working capital is removed and the depreciation rules for industry improved.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the Tax Fund scheme to ensure that no larger and different requirements are imposed on the mining industry than on other industries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7804	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the new export finance scheme is organised as a special law company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-14.ana.ud478e7972	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
