ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e84	The representative Thomas Breen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called product representatives, for Hordaland County Roald Aga Haug and for Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen, have taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal from 15 February until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of Mr Øyvind Waksdal, who is currently abroad and, for that reason, prevented from meeting in the United Kingdom from 15 February to 17 February. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From other alternates of the Rogaland County, Marit Amundsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the permit of the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal, due to disease. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The third alternate of the Rogaland County, Pál Morten Borgli, is proposed for the period from 15 February to 17 February, and the first alternate, Terje Halleland, is proposed to meet from 22 February until further notice. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Pål Morten Borgli is present and will take the seat. The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e131	On behalf of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals to ensure opportunities for Public Private Cooperation in the financing of hospital development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e136	The representative, Mr S. Woldseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e139	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Morten Høglund, Peter N. Myhre, Kari Storstrand and myself, promote a proposal for a representative on a strategy for the Internet and social media in a human rights perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e144	Finally, the representative Mr Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e147	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal to establish a public register of traffic school services in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e152	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e166	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the insertion by the Minister for Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e177	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and thorough presentation. Soon, 22 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, 17 years after the end of the apartheid regime in South Africa and 13 years after the introduction of democratic reforms in Indonesia, we see that the wave of democracy is winning out in the Arab world. We have rarely had the opportunity to be more current in a foreign debate in Stortinget than today. In the few days that have passed between the presentation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the debate here, Hosni Mubarak, who has run Egypt for 30 years, has left. That's all reason to celebrate. We've seen both Tunisia and Egypt, and we see elsewhere, that at the moment you overcome fear, everything can happen. In the morning hours today, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has gone out and given his full support to the protests that are now taking place in Tehran. She has said that Iran should follow Egypt, and of course they have the same right in Iran to protest and have human rights as elsewhere. We see a spread and an infectious effect also to other countries in the region. In Bahrain, we've seen two demonstrators killed by the rebel police. I guess we all have to admit that the development of the last few weeks came as a surprise to most people. But what a huge impression what is now happening in other countries in the region, we experienced in the Foreign and Defence Committee at close quarters when we were recently traveling in the Middle East. We visited Israel, Jordan and the Palestinian territories. There is no doubt that the Israeli-Palestine conflict was overwhelming. At the same time, there was no doubt that what was about to happen in the region also made a big impression and imprinted the meetings and our visits. But we must be aware that witnessing the fall of dictatorship is not yet the same as witnessing the birth of democracy. Mass protests can cause dictatorships to fall, but it's very difficult to get democracies on their legs because of protests. Many have written a lot about what will come after Tunisian Ben Ali and Egypt's Mubarak. There are two very different countries. However, in both countries there are extreme groupings, but I would warn against exaggerating that threat. Neither in Tunisia nor in Egypt have the crowds particularly cried extreme religious slogans. The exposure and the mind is directed towards authoritarian leaders who run an economic disorder and do not respect the rights of the population. As a model, the demonstrators point to Turkey rather than Iran. Autocrats, both current and potential, see that there are limits to how far they can go and how long they can sit. None of the regimes in the region are immune to popular uprisings. Egypt's demonstrators have given relief and inspiration to others in the region by saying that now we can take the road to the Tahrir Square. In fact, for many years authoritarian leaders in the Middle East have used the threat of Islamist movements as an excuse to remain seated. That scarescreen has had a huge impact in the West. By benefiting from these regimes, countries in the West have failed both the population and their own ideals. A genuine democratic transition will take time. I am pleased that the military transition regime in Egypt has at least signalled such democratisation by rejecting the old constitution and by promising elections within six months. And not least, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, has given Norwegian support for democratisation in Egypt and Tunisia. Such support can be decisive, not least because little of the international assistance and support to the region has had democracy and respect for human rights as a focus. For Norway, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also says, it would be natural to focus closely on EU initiatives. For a real change to occur, a change in more than the front figures is required. Amendments to constitutions, electoral systems, laws, regulations relating to political parties, the media, the judicial system and not least people's awareness are required. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence visited Stockholm last week and had, among other things, meets with Sweden's foreign minister Carl Bildt and the Minister for Assistance, Gunilla Carlsson. The Minister of Assistance has recently taken an initiative to provide more money and assistance for things that support under democratic movements, such as: social media. It is a development that we too should follow. It made my impression that the Minister of Foreign Affairs described the common features and weaknesses of authoritarian societies. His description reminded me of an interpellation debate I had with his colleague Environment and Development Minister Erik Solheim about Ethiopia earlier, in January. There the Minister for the Environment and Development said that Ethiopia is better now than at any other time in history. Meles Zenawi replaced an extremely brutal regime with something far, far better, and you can't immediately base the view of human rights organisations, because it doesn't give a reasonable picture of the situation. In my opinion, it is a rather frightening statement by the Minister for Development. It may therefore be natural to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain whether he sees some ethical dilemmas by providing large amounts of development aid to regimes that evolve in an increasingly authoritarian direction. I was delighted that the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his presentation with a strong appeal to support democracy and ensure that human rights are respected in practice. In that light, it's a little strange, I think, that the government is holding on to its resistance to an individual complaint scheme attached to the Children's Convention. I am surprised at the Foreign Minister's argument in Dagbladet that the complaint mechanism will mean most to countries with little respect for children's rights, and therefore we do not need to participate. It's not that way that human rights progress has been made over several years. They have been fought through the fact that some countries go ahead and pressure the weakest to follow. And our reports from the meetings that have just been held on this issue indicate that Norway has also been completely passive in the discussions on complaints. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has promoted the EU as a political actor. It's a perspective and a -- let's call it -- ambition that right-hand parts. In particular, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the development of a common foreign service in the EU. I share his wish that these bureaucratic manoeuvres should be put in place so that Catherine Ashton's new institution can begin its work of making the EU's foreign policy more coordinated and more effective. Not least the trends we are now seeing along the southern side of the Mediterranean, underline the importance of this. When the committee was travelling to Brussels and Geneva quite exactly one year ago, we had, among other things, A meeting with Michael Matthiessen – he was a former special broadcast for Solana – and he gave a pretty good picture of how things were going with the common foreign service right at the time. He said it's like playing three-dimensional chess with ties in front of his eyes and one hand tied behind his back. I believe that the development of the common foreign service is now continuing – a lot of evidence – and that is a development that we naturally follow with great interest. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said in his statement: «Our right to participate in expert groups and committees assisting the Commission in the development of legislation is provided for in the EEA Agreement.» Such a formulation may seem to obscure something more than it explains. We are now receiving regular feedback from Norwegian actors in Brussels that our access to so-called comitology committees is becoming increasingly blocked. These are topics that we have discussed both in this Chamber and in the European Committee in the past. I would just like to make an order to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to whether this issue related to ‘decision shaping’ in the EU at all is a meaningful way of talking about Norway’s influence there and whether it becomes part of the EEA statement in May. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of being coordinated, focused and seeing opportunities in EU work, and he is committed to continuing established consultation arrangements. It's also the Storting. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs is well-known, the European Committee has repeatedly underlined the importance of the Norwegian government establishing a good relationship with the EU half-yearly Presidency and the active participation of Norwegian government councils in informal ministerial meetings in the EU context. I was therefore a little surprised when I saw that the Foreign Minister's meeting with the Hungarian EU Presidency was cancelled at short notice, and I expect that this meeting will now be held soon. A 10-minute introduction cannot give full justice to a comprehensive and interesting account and not least interesting developments in the world – while we are here talking. I would therefore refer to my colleagues, who will also address other aspects of this in their contributions. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out the importance of taking full account of changing conditions of power in the world, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also explains. China is growing as a political and economic power, and the United States is increasingly looking in that direction. This means that our old notion that the most important is the axis of Brussels-Moscow-Washington, may be falling, and that the main security policy provider is now located in Southeast Asia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned Indonesia's important role in the region as a complement to the presentation. We'll be leaving soon with the committee to Moscow and Murmansk. I think it'll be interesting, not only in the light of the consensus here on the dividing line agreement, but also because it's interesting to hear and look at closely keeping Russian positions to many of the things that are now happening in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e231	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a perspective statement, and since it was held on Thursday, the popular revolution in Egypt has won new victories. President Mubarak has left, Parliament has been dissolved and the Constitution has expired. The military has assumed responsibility. Still, the questions are many, but the signals given bear hope that the people's desire for more democracy and freedom can be heard. The military forces demonstrated restraint during the demonstrations. Let's hope that's a sign that they'll use wisdom even in the transition period that starts now, and that the democratic forces are winning out. You have said that the peace agreement with Israel should be maintained. Muslim brotherhood, according to the media, has declared that they do not stand in the presidential elections and that they do not seek a majority in the parliamentary elections. There is reason to stand behind and underline the foreign minister's call to all those who have power and influence in Egypt to take joint responsibility for a peaceful transition to democracy. It's the only dangerous path if Egypt is to also succeed in creating a sustainable basis for social and economic progress, which is absolutely necessary for people to have a better future that they've now taken to Facebook and the streets to get the opportunity to create. We must support the democratic forces and the process that has started in Egypt, in cooperation with our European partners. We see signs that the popular uprising in Tunisia and Egypt gives inspiration in many other Arab countries. In Yemen, Algeria and Iran, similar movements are underway. A peaceful and successful transition to democracy and renewal in Egypt could be crucial for the whole region and the whole Arab world. If the country goes in the footsteps of Turkey, what we've experienced in these dramatic days may turn out to be a turning point in the Middle East in line with the fall of the Berlin Wall in our own continent. The events in Egypt have been accompanied by unrest in Israel. It is a disturbance that should not have a negative impact on the efforts of a peace agreement with Palestinians and the establishment of a Palestinian State of its own. The years of striving to achieve such a peace agreement are in a few months of fate. The deadline for agreeing a peace settlement and the establishment of a separate state for the Palestinians that President Obama, Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas agreed in September last year is a little less than six months away. The negotiations which were started have been cancelled. Israel has resumed its construction activities in the settlements. The visit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to Jordan, the West Bank and Israel recently gave us insights into a situation where there is a need for more political leadership, more political will and more political courage to build up under the moderate forces and the heaviest extremists on both sides of this conflict. The basis for an agreement which actually draws up the solution to all the difficult questions lies in the disappointment of the previous round of negotiations. The leakages in Al-Jazeera confirmed that the Palestinians are willing to go far and far beyond Israel. There is peace and stability on the West Bank. The Palestinian authorities are cooperating with the Israelis on security. President Abbas is working to overcome the division on the Palestinian side. Hamas must stop the Islamisation in Gaza and choose whether they will be a tool for the Palestinian cause or whether they will be a piece of Iran's game in the region. The Palestinian state-building project has been practically completed on the West Bank with World Bank approval stamps. It must be called for new elections on the part of the President and Parliament. The question is what will happen if the harvest comes without a solution. It is a scenario that should disturb the Israelis many more than bet on a peace agreement with today's Palestinian leadership on the West Bank. It is incomprehensible if Israel believes they can build a lasting security on continued occupation and on continued annexation of Palestinian territories through new settlements. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the harassment of the Palestinians that we ourselves saw in Hebron, and to which there are countless eyewitnesses in the occupied territories, should continue, harassment from settlers with protection of Israeli military forces. It is unacceptable for Israel to tear down Palestinian homes and schools on the West Bank because they have not received the building permit that the Israelites themselves have refused. It is incomprehensible that Israel should not respect the same body as the established state, namely the UN General Assembly. Therefore, 2011 is not just a year of destiny for the Palestinians' desire and need for a country of their own. It's also a crossroads for Israel. Israel should seize the opportunity now available. Israel must break out of the illusion that there is a military power that gives security. It is only a peace agreement and subsequent reconciliation that can provide the security of Israel and Israel with a legitimate claim. How does Norway best safeguard its interests during the break-up period we are living in internationally? Tens of millions are lifted out of extreme poverty through strong economic growth in several countries in Asia, South America and Africa each year. The economic centre of gravity is shifted, and with that the economic influence. China does not celebrate that they have become the world's second largest economy, but their influence nevertheless grows on many levels and through many channels. One consequence is that important international institutions need to change to capture these developments. This concerns the UN Security Council, as regards organisations such as the World Bank and the IMF. If not, these institutions will lose their legitimacy. Another important recognition is that what we now see as new is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs called ‘the new normal’. I want to add: we also have to get used to that change is normal, for this development is not in its final phase; it's rather just at the end of its beginning. Thirdly, we must be present in the new and growing economies. There are important markets for Norwegian exports. Through EFTA, we are now negotiating free trade agreements with India, Vietnam and Indonesia. We must work towards a resumption of negotiations with China as soon as possible. The government's strategy papers towards China, Vietnam and Brazil, which are now coming, are useful tools for working towards new markets. Our close relationship with the United States is and will continue to be important, but at the same time our relationship with Europe will grow more important, not least in terms of security and defence policy. Economically, the internal market is crucial even if we are to succeed in the new, growing markets in Asia and South America. The EEA Agreement is now subject to a review both at home and in the EU. This may provide a basis for what I would call an update of the agreement in the light of 17 years of experience and the development of decision-making structures in the EU. The Treaty of Lisbon has increased the power of the European Parliament, an institution to which the EEA Agreement does not give us any formal channels. I believe that the EFTA countries should seek a formal channel into Parliament. This could be done, for example, by: be entitled to be heard in the committees before giving their opinion, and a seat in COSAC for us here in the Grand Duchy. There is a need for better mechanisms when the EU adopts horizontal policy objectives, as we have seen in climate policy, and divides the tasks among itself, without such a division when the measures also apply in the EEA area. We should be given a clarification as to who should have the right to fine or to impose other sanctions on enterprises in the EFTA countries, so that we avoid a drag on this on a case-by-case basis. So I'm talking about the institutional side of the EEA Agreement and not the framework and scope of the agreement. Opinions on the EEA and the Swiss agreements of the Council in December also raise another issue that will affect us. What should the EU do with the micro-states of Andorra, San Marino and Monaco? The Hungarian Presidency is mandated to find a solution to how these too can be integrated into the internal market. Even they see the need for this after, fortunately, the possibilities of living as tax havens and tax havens have become heavily narrowed. There are two ways into the internal market. One is through EU membership, and that is hardly the case. The second is through the EEA. Whether that road should be up to date is up to us. This is not among the main challenges we face in the future, but they have to be solved, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e267	Yesterday, the Iranian people touched. If the situation from Cairo were copied in Tehran, it would have been a blessing. The US Secretary of State was out there supporting the Iranian demonstrators. This kind of support is important at critical times, and we expect Norway to be equally clear in its support. The people of Egypt were able to kick their president, and the ringing effects will be felt for a long time in Egypt and beyond. It is now to hope that the future of Egypt looks brighter without Mubarak, and that a constitution and institutions can be established that can provide a framework for a country where fundamental rights are respected, where the Christian minority can live in security, and where peace with the neighbours, including Israel, is maintained. It's now interesting to see what's happening in other countries in the Arab world and the rest of the region. For too long old men have oppressed their own population, secured their own family and friends, and channelled all protests in different directions than against their own regime. Now more leaders can face a fall. Although all change may seem daunting and destabilizing, it is our belief that nothing is more stabilising in the long term than democracy and freedom. If that's what we get, we still have to see. But it's important that we give our support to the forces that work in that direction. As mentioned, the people of Iran have now begun to move. If it is that destabilization in parts of the Middle East is frightening because it challenges what is known and safe, it is because still stability in Iran is it scary, because, as we know, the regime there has a policy that works against democracy and peace in the region. In the Minister of Foreign Affairs' other thorough presentation, it was striking to note that he did not mention Iran in one word – nor as a factor of conflict in the Middle East or a lack of peace agreement. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence visited the region in January, all sides were concerned about conveying an image where Iran’s destructive role was a problem. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also jumped over Hamas and their responsibility for the division on the Palestinian side. The Foreign Minister gave a comprehensive account, and he gave the world his political diagnosis. But I missed a clearer emphasis on how to safeguard Norwegian interests. I got the G20. But what about the content of the WTO or the free trade agreements? What about the Norwegian strategy when the EU now establishes its foreign service? How are we going to implement NATO's neighbourhood strategy? – to mention some of the areas that need to be filled with political content in the coming years. Retorically, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is good at describing Norway’s position in the world. But I am happy to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs move Norwegian policy in important areas in relation to Norwegian interests. We continue to kick ourselves on the deck and undermine Norwegian interests, because we grant concessions to special interests, or because we do not have the power to make the necessary budgetary changes. Here I am thinking, not least, of agricultural policy and defence policy. NATO cooperation and changes in the strategic concept are mentioned in the presentation. But NATO's lack of interest in Norwegian issues is not problematic. The lack of interest that so far exists among our allies in the face of our immediate challenges makes extra demands on our security policy thinking and device. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister’s assessment of whether he expects NATO’s attention to the north as a result of NATO’s new strategic concept. The relationship with Russia and not least new opportunities in our neighbourhood were discussed during the part-line debate last week. This is important for Norway, not only in a bilateral context, but also within the framework of the Northern Dimension, Barents Cooperation or the Arctic Council. Norway and Russia will together be able to make important premises for cooperation and draw it in the desired direction. Research in the Arctic has gradually received a lot of attention, and we have succeeded in establishing Svalbard as a good place for both learning and research. Other Arctic states, such as Canada, is now focusing on expanding research centres in its own Arctic environment. As a leading Arctic State, Norway should consider whether it makes sense to engage in these projects. Norwegian interest in the Arctic goes far beyond the areas we are familiar with. In this way, research participation in projects in both Canada and Russia can support the Norwegian Arctic dimension. Trade policy and free markets are important. We are excited again whether we can get a result of the ongoing WTO round of developments. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway should do its job to obtain a result. We will not fail to point out that Norwegian positions would have been more logical and better structured if we added the protectionist trade policy to agricultural products. We believe this would have served Norwegian jobs and Norwegian consumers in a better way than today's policies, where we are protectionist in relation to agriculture, while we are free trade apostles in almost all other areas, including fish. If we had strategically chosen other positions on agriculture, we could also have seen a free trade agreement with the United States – the world's largest economy. Now it seems unrealistic. Nevertheless, we are pleased that we are seeking trade agreements with large markets such as China, India, Russia and Indonesia. This will be important contributions for the Norwegian economy, but we do not understand why we have not yet obtained the free trade agreement with Colombia for ratification. It is not as large as the ones mentioned, but a lot of work is done. The agreement is complete and should be able to be implemented. If it is for human rights reasons, we will also warn against the human rights situation in a few of the other countries with which Norway is negotiating. We do not understand that, on the one hand, we are actively seeking an agreement with China, and on the other hand, we are not afraid to ask the Stortinget to ratify the agreement with Colombia. We, for our part, wish to welcome both agreements. The Progress Party agrees that human rights means a great deal in relation to the countries with which we cooperate, but mainly we are of the opinion that trade can work positively. That is why we are, for example, not trailers of a commercial boycott of Cuba. There may be reasons to boycott a country, or not to promote trade with a country, but Colombia, in our opinion, is not at all in such a situation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, the EU’s new foreign service can present us with challenges, not least because this service will actively promote the business of EU enterprises. How do we meet this? How do we set up our foreign service and Innovation Norway's foreign offices? In these days, it is reported that Norway will put an end to Innovation Norway’s Dubai office, to give an example. Other jobs related to Innovation Norway in several embassies are also filled. Are these reductions responding to the challenges for Norwegian enterprises in a globalised market? I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is engaged in a relevant foreign service, and is constantly looking at the need to scale up or scale down in relation to current challenges. However, in the light of changes in the EU and the budgetary pressure in Innovation Norway, a few additional rounds may be needed to ensure Norway’s presence in important markets. Neither is it that any historical commitment deserves a continuation. An example is our presence in Sri Lanka. I think the Solheim Council should visit the country in the near future. The reports I see indicate that Norway is not welcome to play any role in the country. This can probably be solved with some generous transfers of money, but it can't be that there's so much achievement in our engagement with Sri Lanka that we don't have the power to pack up and say that enough is enough? The Minister for Foreign Affairs drew forth ‘changes’ as a word that describes much of what is now happening. Even on our continent there are changes, much due to a serious financial crisis. When countries or groups of countries are in crisis, new and more effective thinking is being pushed into action than in the past. As a result, the crisis that many EU Member States are experiencing can actually lead to improved cooperation in certain areas; it becomes a necessity to cope with the storm. The challenge for Norway, which is not in the same pressed situation, will be to match this. The EU’s new foreign service has been mentioned, but there will also be other areas where changes will challenge us. Therefore, we must constantly be willing to change to safeguard our interests. Norway’s task now is to ensure competitiveness in line with a number of countries that have taken painful measures to reduce the public sector and modernise themselves, while we have been too preoccupied with being self-satisfied and describing Norway as an island of stability in a troubled world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e303	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good statement that I thought was very perspective-rich - not least has a real impact on two changes. One is that contact over the Pacific is supposedly going to affect the world more than contact over the Atlantic for decades to come, and what it means for Norway, and the other is that one is not just relying on a slightly outdated image, which we've all easily seen together, that the world is moving in a liberal democratic direction, but that there is rather a set of societal models that are emerging together, where many have different growth conditions in different periods. I want to use a lot of my post to reflect a little bit around the situation in Egypt. I sat and looked at the BBC World that night Mubarak left, and looked at the celebrations. I got a little dejà vu-kensle to the autumn when I myself turned 18, in the autumn of 1989, and the revolution in Eastern Europe. It was amazing pictures, I experience. It is interesting to look at some features: first, the combination of extreme differences — a small elite and enormous poverty among the people most — and the very power of democracy, freedom of expression and other freedoms. It's got it in each situation. Let us remember that in addition to this power of democracy in Egypt, Egypt is a country with enormous poverty, but at the same time one of the countries with the greatest capital flow in Africa – with a small elite that has moved out huge money and that has had huge resources. That combination is probably central to triggering what has happened both in Tunisia and in Egypt. So I think it has been interesting to see the role many women have played in the process of democracy in Egypt – as active participants, as leaders and as spokespersons. That's something I thought we might have an even stronger focus on in politics here. It can quickly be the greatest challenge in the process that Egypt is about to face — whether women’s rights are as important as other democratic rights in the country. So it's to hope that we can now get a development in a democratic direction in Egypt, in Tunisia and in other countries in the region, but it's hard to wonder what will happen. But I feel that it provides a basis for addressing some other interesting questions, first of all what I would call the West's often unclear morale in dealing with that kind of processes. After all, it was not the case that the United States and everyone else, from the start, were throwing themselves over with clear support for the movement of democracy in Egypt – as opposed to the movement of democracy in Iran, which they threw themselves over with clear support. This probably also shows a little bit of, at least some Western countries' problems. The Foreign Affairs Committee was just in the Middle East, and one of the things that was evident was what many years of misguided policy in several variants has led to towards Iraq. First, support up on Iraq as a coup d'état against Iran. Then one goes to war with Iraq, and now one goes back with a situation where Iran's influence in Iraq is probably stronger than he has been in many decades, which can quickly strike back on the United States and other countries. Then I feel that this situation also shows us that stability – which we often use as a credo about a region or a country where there is peace – is probably a bad and bad friend in meeting with the Foreign Minister himself describes as the ‘time of change’. Firstly, ‘stability’ has changed in a few weeks, or in a few weeks, to the greatest change we've seen in a long time. But secondly, I also found it interesting to see that the transformation ‘revolution’ and the changes we have seen change content over time. I have experienced two revolutions myself in our presence in my awakening time. It is the peaceful and democratic revolution in Eastern Europe and the peaceful and democratic revolution in Egypt. I think it can in a completely different way give 'change,' popular democratic change, a good reputation. It challenges us whether it really is stability that is best for the development of a region, for a solution to Israel's occupation of Palestine and for other questions, or whether we should be tougher about challenging ourselves and seeking support for the forces that seek change politically and economically, for example. in Egypt and other Arab countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e318	One of the major events last year for the plain Northman was the volcanic eruption in Iceland, which affected many. In 1783 and 1784, there was also a very large volcanic eruption in Iceland, a volcanic eruption that caused the summer of 1784 not to come, and a growing year in crops around Europe. After 1784, there were several cold winters, and it was unyearly after wee years. It was popular uprising, and we got the French revolution in 1789. High food prices are used as one of the reasons why the French revolution just came. This winter we have again seen the importance of food prices. Always when there are revolutions, it has complex causes. But one of the reasons why it tipped over now — which the Foreign Minister was also talking about when it came to both Tunisia and Egypt — was that very many people who spend almost their entire income on food. When you see that food prices are rising, there is social unrest, and in these cases revolution. Since the United Nations began to produce food price indices in 1990, we are now at the highest level ever — higher than in the crisis we had in 2008. Then there was unrest in Haiti. Now we see turmoil in several places, lately in North Africa. In many places in the world, people spend 50-80 pst., or almost 100 pst., of everything they earn, on food. About every six people on earth struggle every day to get enough bread. According to the UN, one child dies every six seconds because of malnutrition. In 2010, we were a little above 6.5 billion people on earth. By 2050, according to the UN, we will be 9.2 billion people on earth. According to the UN, we need 70 pst. more food production in 2050 than we have today. At the same time, because of climate change, food production is becoming impossible in more and more areas. In other parts of the world, the food soil is being built down, so we get less cultivated land and fewer places where it's adorable. We're going to be more people; and the food prices are historically high today. This affects international policies very, very much. It is time we started discussing food and food policy in a Norwegian foreign debate, because there are so many people involved. Nearly one-sixth of mankind has too little as of today. It creates people's migration, it creates instability, and it's already hungry. That is why I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party is once again calling for an uncritical free trade in food, when one sees the consequences of not having a national food policy and stability in food prices. It's strange in the light of the last month's revolutions that you don't see the relationship between food price and political instability. Then there are three points that are particularly important: Every country must have both the right and the duty of its own food production, because it is the most important country that can provide for its own population. Then we cannot now enter into a new WTO round where one still has a blind belief in free trade and does not see the importance of stability in the food situation. There has been a decline in agricultural aid in the last few years at international level. It has to turn around now. One of the most important things in Cancún was the demand from developing countries for climate adaptation. What is climate adaptation? Well, there is climate adaptation of agriculture, so that people affected by climate change and countries affected by climate change can manage to have an agriculture that breads their own population. We need to get more involved in agricultural aid. We have to follow up what happened in Cancún, and increase support for climate adaptation. I think it is very important to look at measures that stabilize food prices in the world. In 2008 we saw a very boom on some commodities. In the last year, the price of wheat has increased by 80 pst. So the price of bread to people has increased a lot. I believe that once again a round, including Norway, has to go with the advance storage of cereals in order to create stability. Had many countries done so, such as the United States, the United States and Japan. The United States does — would have become more stable in food prices, and it has a direct impact on the individual. UN Millennium Goal No. 1 is halving the number that's starving by 2015. With the evolution we have now, the number that's starving, is going to go up. We can't sit and watch that. It creates instability, it's immoral, and we have to shape a new policy direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e345	I'm lucky to be allowed to come and join the debate after the Foreign Minister's statement. That's what I've been doing before, without being on the account itself. Since the Foreign Minister made his statement last Thursday, we have witnessed a revolution in the Middle East's largest Arab country. As several others have said, President Mubarak has left. The army has gained power for a period, while new constitutions are to be made and free elections are to be prepared in Egypt. We can witness a historic change of time in the Middle East. One image has burned on my retina – many Muslim demonstrators who bowed in prayer at the Tahrir Square in Cairo, while Christian youths stood hand in hand and formed a protective ring around them. They were united in the struggle for freedom. May this community also guarantee that millions of Christians in Egypt are now given their human rights in line with others. They must not be forgotten when the values of freedom are to be concreteized in a functioning rule of law and a true democracy. During the month, two authoritarian Arab regimes have fallen – first in Tunisia, then in Egypt. Once again, something the experts didn't happen in advance. It reminds us of 1989 when the Communist dictatorships in Eastern Europe rallied. We believe that dictatorships cannot last forever, but we do not know when they fall. Tyranner, with brutal means of power, can long defecate for the will of the people, but suddenly the dam breaks down. Then the regimes collapse as a walled house without armour, when the popular earthquake strikes them. In the Christian People's Party we have long followed developments in the Middle East with critical eyes. Authoritarian and corrupt regimes, lack of democracy and freedom of expression, abuse of freedom of belief and other human rights, little commitment to education, especially for women, and too weak economic growth have led the region into a historical background. The contrast is great for little Israel. As a democratic island in a sea of Arab dictatorships, this mini-state has shown that economic and social development is possible in a narrow landscape. Israel is characterised by strong economic growth, breakthrough technological innovation and sustainable democracy. We all admire the people of the Middle East. But we can't take the outcome for granted. It can go like the time the Persian Shah's regime fell, just to be replaced by the ayatollane's fright regime. We do not enjoy such an accident in the Arab world. Another danger is that Islamist extremists will try to break the peace agreements that Israel has with Egypt and Jordan today. These peace agreements have long been stabilising pillars in a conflict-filled Middle East. But in Hamas, Hezbollah and the Muslim brotherhood of Egypt there are those who will remove these peaceable beams. In the Christian People's Party, we see the revolution in Egypt as a sign in the time of Israel and the Palestinians. Both the security of Israel and the rights of the Palestinians argue that both parties must now take the painful compromises required to achieve a peace settlement. They must commit to peaceful coexistence, mutual recognition and cooperation instead of destructive conflict. But then they need support for a peace agreement from Arab neighbouring countries and no hate propaganda and anti-Semitistic agitation from the terrorist organisation Hamas or other intransigent groups that will not grant Israel any right to existence, or the Palestinians any right to a future of self-government. It is clear to me that this foreign debate takes place in a time for changes in the larger Middle East. A number of countries need fundamental reforms. Sudan is at a special crossroads. There, the referendum in the south gave an overwhelming majority of nearly 99 p.m. for the detachment and formation of an independent State in South Sudan. The year 2011 will be historic. The international community must see its responsibilities and help to ensure that the division of Sudan can take place peacefully and contribute to a good start for the new state. Norway, too, now needs to show its power of action. The Christian People's Party calls for a rapid government initiative on this challenge. It's urgent. The United States is now making a strong contribution, but European countries must also take responsibility. Norway has very special assistance bands to South Sudan and access to both north and south authorities. It will be a historical neglect if we do not make a powerful contribution to peaceful state-sharing and nation-building in Sudan in this fate-year. If we don't act fast enough, we'll fail a historic chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e368	Having a broad foreign policy statement on the Left's point of view is difficult in five minutes. I have to say that the foreign minister's analysis was good, and that he deals with a lot that we also agree on. But in the five minutes you have, you have to focus on a lot of what you also disagree about. I would say that the foreign minister's analysis is a good analysis, and that is good diplomatic craftsmanship. But I sometimes find that the Foreign Minister is acting out of his mind. I'll come back to it. I want to start with what everyone has started with – the amazing thing that has actually happened in Egypt – from the time the presentation was made to now, we have experienced that a dictator has gone. I think it is important that we, not only as a state, but also we who have sister parties in Egypt, should assist in the building of democracy and the job they now have in front of them. Friday, February 11, will be an important day in Egypt’s history – an important day for all Arab countries. It's amazing that this happened as peacefully as it did. It shows that now Arab countries are moving a step towards democracy. It also shows that those who thought that the brotherhood was going to win the first fight, and that they had Iran as their ideal, can look at the democracy struggle that is now starting in Iran as a result, as a sign that they didn't. I want to talk about the same thing that Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell mentioned, namely that we have often behaved with double standards towards these countries. We've been talking nice about democracy, but we've accepted the power of the dictators. I think it is important that Norway, based on our position, can have a foreign policy that strongly conveys values both related to human rights and to democracy, and that the fundamental human rights actually apply everywhere. Then I think it's nice to have a foreign minister who boasts of a military dictator, who calls him a legitimate leader, praises his peace efforts and observes that he won a convincing election victory last time. I believe that we should stand up for democratic human rights – the same democracy and the same human rights, no matter where it is needed. I believe that much of the conflict that has arisen between Arab countries and the West actually has its base in that we have acted with double standards: democracy is much worth one place, but not so much worth as long as we thought we had the dictators on our side. I believe the same is true of our great neighbour in the East, namely Russia. A member of my sister party in Russia said that ‘democracy’ is such a noble word that it should never have a word in front of it. The calling of a ‘Russian’ democracy is the same as putting ‘electric’ in front of a ‘chair’. Democracy is a word that must stand for itself. Democracy must have some universal values, and we should fight for the support of those who hold those values. That is why I am pleased that the Foreign Minister raised Belarus, Europe's last dictatorship, in his statement, but the statements made by the Foreign Minister must also commit and contribute to action. We should contribute student asylum to the students who are now being thrown out because of their struggle for democracy, and we should press Russia to stand for this country. As far as I know – the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to cancel it; I am pleased to say so – Norway has been negotiating better trade agreements between Belarus and Norway as late as January, as the EU has said clearly no. It's actually the way the world is moving in a more liberal direction. There are more and more people who can vote in free elections, there are more and more people growing up under a free market economy, and we are on the right track in a historical development. Whether socialist dictatorships or military dictatorships fall, as we experienced both in 1989 and now, in 2011, yet there are totalitarian regimes. And then we're going to be on the right side. We have to be the ones who convey values related to human rights and democracy. We're not going to be the analysts, but we're actually going to be the ones who stand for something.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e385	Thank you for many good posts and perspectives. I'm going to try to get into part of what's been brought up until now in the debate. First of all, in the case of Egypt, I think we all agree on the views of the historical that have happened. The evening post had a first page on Saturday where it said, "Now waiting for freedom." That's a hope more than a postulate, I would say. A great deal of uncertainty lies ahead of Egypt, and we must now find the right way for us to support, so that democratic forces, liberal forces and the voice of the people can be expressed. The situation is that a general without uniform has now been replaced by a uniform general member who has abolished the Constitution, has dissolved the National Assembly and has continued the state of emergency. It's a demanding starting point for the way forward. We emphasise that Norway, together with other countries, should make the best possible contribution — but note one of the young demonstrators in the place who said they did it themselves. It was a strong message about the importance of the Egyptians owning their own future and their own revolution. In the days ahead, Norway will monitor this development and the possibility of action rooms for Norwegian support in Egypt. This may mean strengthening the embassy for a time to come. We want to systematically assess contact with key actors in Egypt, regionally and internationally, and assess how we can use Norwegian resources. We will further develop and increase democratic support through existing local, regional and international networks and partners. We need to focus on areas where we have special conditions to contribute. Such areas may include support to human rights organisations, civil society, observation of elections, strengthening of free media, cultural support and other relevant knowledge developments in line with Egyptian needs. It's going to be our line in the future, and we're going to do that work right now. It was a question of Ethiopia. Yes, it's a country with huge human rights deficits, and a party that wins 99 pst. by the voices, say something about how democracy is in practice. Ethiopia is one of the most advanced countries in the Millennium Development Goals, which has high economic growth and is an important regional power. The leader of Ethiopia also has a heavy voice within the African Union on behalf of Africa in many contexts. We also need to balance clear messages about democracy, human rights, development and, at the same time, about Ethiopia as an African and international actor. It's a balance. I agree, but the government is aware of that and concerned about it. The representative, Høglund, was concerned with a lot of things. He believes that I have not moved Norwegian foreign policy worth mentioning, even though good rhetoric is being promoted. It could be interpreted as a compliment from the Progress Party from my perspective – I feel that we have broad support for the foreign policy course that we have debated on many occasions. But in one area, he says something I want to comment on, namely that NATO shows a lack of interest in the development of the north. I don't know if he uses the Evening Post method of searching for words at WikiLeaks, and I find out that "Arktis" and "High North" are rarely mentioned. To that I would like to comment on what I have written in the evening post today, namely that it has never been Norway's goal to call the wolf on the northern regions of NATO. Four of the five coastal states around the Arctic are NATO members. Five out of eight members of the Arctic Council are NATO members. Our northern diplomacy is mainly directed towards the capitals of a large number of partners who show increasing interest in the Arctic and North regions, the Arctic Council and the cooperation that is taking place there. I have twice briefed on developments in the North of the NATO Council, and I have done so in a way that is not meant to bring alarm messages, but to increase knowledge and information. To the representative, Mr Svendsen, I can say that we are working actively with Sudan, in close cooperation with the rest of the troika, and not least the African Union, which must lead this field. I can only confirm to the representative of the Skei Grande that we must strongly communicate democracy and human rights. I think that is also how Norway is recognized, whether it is towards Belarus or other countries like our neighbour Russia. We are not negotiating a trade agreement with Belarus. Our goal is to have a trade agreement with Russia. The complication is that Russia has entered into a customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan, so they are in a way involved in the purchase. But our focus is Russia, which can soon become a member of the WTO. On the subject of the individual complaint, I would just like to say briefly that we want more clarifications before we take a position on Norway's accession. It is not excluded that we are going to do so, but in terms of both the Economic and Social Convention and the Children's Convention, we believe there is reason to ask some questions about what this is going to mean in terms of our participation in international cooperation and the commitment of Norwegian elected organisations. But we're a proponent of children's rights. We have incorporated the Children's Convention, we support children's rights in international cooperation, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e410	A Norwegian shipowner is out in the media today asking for resolute action against pirates. I'm not going to ask the Foreign Minister for the same kind of treatment that he does, but it's based on a recognition that we have a big problem with piracy, not least in that part of the world. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that we can get a deal, a deal with the pirates, which means that they are not going to be repeaters in the piracy business, but that somehow we are going to end this? Unfortunately, piracy has existed almost at all times, but it has been managed and ended elsewhere. Can we get to such a conclusion in the Gulf of Aden?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e415	The problem is that it's not just about the Gulf of Aden, it's about the entire vast Indian sea. So this is a challenge that I think the world community has really never seen before in this area. We're going to play an active part in trying to bring the pieces together into a strategy that can end this problem. The symptom is at sea, the cause is on land in the devastated state of Somalia. We've had a Norwegian State Secretary on a trip last week to the countries of the region, neighbouring countries, those facing this directly, in order to gain their experience in criminal prosecution, in order to avoid impunity, in order to get a common line on the issue of arms, military presence. My State Secretary Espen Barth Eide is revisiting Nairobi today to follow up conversations in the same track. Norway has had military presence in the region and may get it back. We are active in developing the legislation that is needed for criminal prosecution, not for impunity, and we are contributing in several ways to try to resolve this very complex issue, which is Somalia and Somalia's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e422	I now heard in the speech to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he made some sort of explanation as to why we are a little adjourned to the International Children's Complaints Board. I do not think this is good enough, because Norway has always been at the forefront of fighting for children’s rights. We have, quite correctly as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, implemented the Children's Convention in our laws. Actually, it's a priority. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what is the real motive for waiting for this body?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e429	The real motive is what I'm really saying. Let me repeat that – I have done so in other debates as well: several of the provisions of these conventions are known, meaningful and can be implemented in different ways and with different instruments. Such a review mechanism could lead to the implementation by Norway of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other Conventions affecting the freedom of action of that Assembly. The power investigation pointed to the fact that part of the judicial process, new international bodies which are not courts but panels, is leading the democratic space in Norway. These are questions we're taking seriously. But I would like to reject the fact that Norway is not a driver of children's rights. We haven't concluded that we want to join these schemes, but we want to see how they are designed before we take the final position. We now have a legal review of the consequences of any accession to the ESC Protocol, which is a much wider protocol. Then we will decide on the issue of Norwegian accession when such an assessment is available. We will probably have a good opportunity to debate this both here and elsewhere in the social debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e441	I'll continue there the previous replicant escaped. It is true that, in relation to the Children's Convention and its protocols, we have already given up part of the authority that is otherwise in this Chamber, by giving priority to the Protocol and the Children's Convention in the event of a conflict with Norwegian law. So we can't decide anything in this room. We can determine what is within the scope of the Convention, within the framework of the Protocol. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his speech that he needs ‘clearance’ and in his reply to the representative Woldseth says that we will see how the right to complain is ‘designed’, my question is even more obvious than what I thought when I first thought about it, namely: Why does Norway not participate in the discussion of the content of the right to complain? Why do we stay silent?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e450	Just to say a little bit about what questions this travels, and what it can get from leaders: It's true that this is incorporated into Norwegian law. It is a very strong measure. Not many countries have. It gives a very strong lead. But, as I said, many of these conventions have very broad formulations, purpose formulations, where the question of a complaint panel can raise questions about panels outside Norway being put to interpret assessments of the political and budgetary implications of decisions we are going to take — a rather new type of mechanism. These are things we think we need to clarify. It's not right that we don't express our view of this, but we're not a driving force for the implementation of the system as it now articulates. We're not alone in this. Many of our neighbouring countries also ask that kind of question. We do not disagree that countries will join such a complaint when it is developed, but we will look into how it is developed before we decide on Norway's part.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e457	I think the Foreign Minister was very unclear in his reply to the representative Morten Höglund about what the government intends to do in the very acute situation in the Gulf of Aden. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that something could be done. It is a very unpresisic formulation that does not respond to the challenges posed by Norwegian interests, Norwegian personnel, and that hosts the whole world’s merchant fleet. A quite correct quote from Jacob Stolt-Nielsen in Today’s Business Life is: ‘This is war.’ Right understands the need to arm Norwegian ships, not to execute people, but as a preventative measure. When and how will the government stand up for Norwegian interests in the Gulf of Aden?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e464	It was useful that the High Representative clarified his view of executions in the Gulf of Aden. There are several sides to this question. One is the wide range of measures that need to be taken on land, legal and international cooperation to address the challenges emerging from Somalia. The second is participation in military operations, where Norway has participated and may participate again. The third is a code on how to possibly arm ships. So it's a question that's of fundamental importance. We're going to make a decision on that in a short time. But I think everyone will understand that you need a thorough consideration of the rise in borders – consequences of what kind of version of weapons/protection you choose for the ships. It has also confirmed our travels in the region in relation to neighbouring countries around it. It is a belief that a strong armed potential on board ships means increased safety. It's not always like this. You have to get it right, and that's what we intend to do when we're going to give our advice in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e469	I noted that the Foreign Minister could assure us that our commitment to Sudan is firm, not least after the new state is hopefully proclaimed. I would like to hear more specifically about what Norway intends to contribute, not least in the light of the previous strong commitment that Norway has had. Then I want to hear a little more generally: there are many observers who believe that Norwegian foreign policy goes from being more value-based to becoming more interest-based. What is the Foreign Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e476	It was a lot in 1 minute. Interest-based: Yes. I believe we had a thorough debate on this in connection with St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009 in the previous period. We will take Norwegian interests into account and see where Norway can make a difference. There is a strong basis on which to assess our interests — the way to influence and the way to participate. So I agree that Norwegian interests have a greater bearing on how we assess Norwegian foreign policy and elections. As far as Sudan is concerned, we have been working actively since 2005 to follow up our responsibilities. The new thing — much more so now — is that Africa itself is taking a lead. The African Union is at the forefront. Former President Mbeki is chairing a panel to monitor developments in Sudan. It's important and right that Africa is in the lead. At the same time, the troika, of which Norway, the United States and the United Kingdom are part, is an important driving force in following up the peace agreement, even after the referendum. Norway is part of it. We are now working on follow-up mechanisms to support the new state, including to support development in the north. There may be particular areas of energy, oil distribution and distribution of income where Norway has expertise and competences that the parties demand. So a wide network and presence in these areas where we have something to contribute is where Norway rates and makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e486	I want to follow up on what all the ladies have been talking about in this reply, the Children's Convention. Is that not the case – I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that what is coming into conflict here is the Children's Convention and the strict asylum policy that has been applied, especially to lone minors and in connection with family reunification? Children are refused to grow up with their parents because strict asylum and refugee policies must be enforced. Does this not mean that you are willing here to sacrifice the Children's Convention and refuse to enter into the obligations you have, because you want to be strict, you want to look like the Progress Party, and you like to set an example with children because you need a strict policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e491	These are so serious accusations that I just want to reject them very directly – that we sacrifice children to achieve another policy area. As the representative Eriksen Soreide was in – and I confirm – the Children’s Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law, so that everyone in Norway can go to Norwegian law and retrieve the rights in the Children’s Convention. Norwegian asylum policy is conducted in line with international legislation, with Norwegian legislation, and can pass the tests. That there are very outrageous and brutal people associated with asylum issues – at all ages, but especially for children – I can confirm and stand by. There is something Norway meets and other countries meet, and it is part of an international trend that we are going to live with for many, many years to come. However, Norway shall meet it in respect of its international obligations and national obligations. In the case of children, it's actually the same side of the same thing, because we've incorporated the convention into Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e499	The world is not what it once was, but at the same time the world has never been what it once was. The whole of North Africa is in the process of what can be called the beginning of a revolution, and none of us are unaffected by what is happening. Strong images have rolled over the TV screen from country to country for almost three weeks. We've seen young people who no longer like losing democratic rights. We've seen unemployed youth going into the streets in despair and protesting at a society where the elite gain more and more power, and people get less and less to say. They have protested against high food prices and lack of freedom. But I am very pleased with the soberness of the description of what is going on, as our foreign minister has had here today, because it is too easy to say that the election is now between dictatorship and democracy. For large parts of the Middle East have no democratic tradition. It must be built on stone, just as Norwegian democracy has been built on stone. How long the transition to the new product, none of us can say. We can't say what's going on. But what we know is that 40 pst. the population of Egypt lives on less than $2 a day. What we know is that the unemployment rate and the high food prices were not included in Mubarak's helicopter when he left. These are problems that Egypt has to deal with in the future. So let's hope that democracy wins in Egypt, in Tunisia and in the other countries where we now see people demonstrating. Let us also agree on what Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre has been very clear, that if Norway can play a role, yes, we do. That work is in progress. I want to spend some time on the conflict between Israel and Palestine. After the Middle East trip that we were on a couple of weeks ago, I must admit that I became more pessimistic than ever in finding a solution to the conflict. The parties are far from each other, there is no negotiation, and the Palestinians are unfortunately divided. But – and that’s a but – I hope that what is now happening in the countries around me is helping to put an extra pressure on the parties, so that they sit down at the negotiating table. Israel, I believe, as the only democracy in this region, has an extra responsibility. But if we're going to get a solution, some things have to happen. It's no longer useful for the parties to owe Obama. It is the actual parties who have to sit down at the negotiating table and show willingness to negotiate. On both sides of the borders, ordinary people suffer. In Gaza, there are 20-year-olds who have never been outside the fences. They're locked up. We from the committee never got into Gaza, so we never got to see how they were, but it's reported of difficult conditions, of course. On the committee tour, we could also hear about an 11-year-old boy who was stopped by a border check in Jerusalem and who just peed on him because he was terrified. And what happens to an 11-year-old who pees on him because he's afraid of a border control? Yes, of course, there is an imminent danger that he will easily become a suicide bomber in ten years. It serves no one, and at least Israel itself. Norway has a very important role as leader of the donor country group and in our history. The parties must know that when they are ready, of course we are also ready. It is easy to think that the world is on a rough course on the way outside the dive. Fortunately, we are not. First, there is no stup, and second, there is also a good deal of progress in the world. I think that today, when we have this debate, we are going to let the progress that has been made in humanitarian law and poverty reduction in the world be an inspiration to move forward and contribute to further progress. Youths around the world are now following youth in Egypt. Last night there were demonstrators in Yemen, Bahrain and Iran. All we can do is ask the leaders of the countries to be wise and support democratic forces. It also serves Norway's interests. After 2005, Norway has spent a lot of time improving contact with what I can call moderate countries and forces in the world. It serves Norway’s interests, and that work is important in a constantly changing world, quickly and fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e514	I'm not going to talk about Egypt. I listened with great interest to the Foreign Minister's statement on Thursday. But the idea struck me where I sat, that we must be in two parallel worlds, unless the Foreign Minister deliberately chose to focus on everything that is positive, and tone down what is not so good at all, either in Europe or in the rest of the world. The aim of foreign policy is to ensure that Norway is put on the map as well as to serve Norway in the best possible way. I don't think the solution to this is that we contribute as much money as possible to put Norway in a good light. Even more important is the fact that Norway actually has something to draw from the foreign policy pursued. Therefore, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs talks about the importance of China to Norway, it is rather discouraging. We're not going back that many years until we barely mentioned China with a word, and if we did, it was to speak negatively about human rights violations, such as. freedom of expression. Now it's all turned around, and it's said time and time again how important China is to Norway. I fully agree that China is important, partly because it has become a major power, but it is talking about economic growth and raising millions out of poverty, while not saying, as I heard from a representative from the UNDP, that the poor in China have become much poorer, that minorities are being persecuted, that those who do not agree with the political leadership in China are being arrested, and that in many of China's factories children are producing clothes and equipment that we here in Norway have an opportunity to buy. Free trade is good for Norway – yes, because it opens up a huge market in China, but perhaps we should also show that we have enough muscles to demand China that goods destined for Norway should not be produced by child workers or women and men who are completely without rights. So the foreign minister's China is probably a completely different China from what I have experiences from in my parallel world. Where the Minister of Foreign Affairs sees a China that has great economic growth and that helps European and African countries to buy up their debt and their resources, I see a China that strategically sits around the world, and that by purchasing resources in fact in several areas now has a monopoly on minerals that the whole world relies on, for example. to produce computers. I don't mean to blackpaint, but I think it's healthy to focus on both sides, or on the parallel if you want. Of course, there is China that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is explaining, but the picture is somewhat more nuanced, and that it jumps over one part, I find strange, to say it a little cautious – that the world and the conditions around the world are not as unilaterally good, as it sounds. I want to talk a little bit about the UN when I first start -- the UN that is struggling to implement reforms, which has a Secretary-General who is far from invisible, and how efficiency and legitimacy have hardly been worse in many, many years. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself points to the emergence of other strong organisations outside the UN system, such as the United Nations. the GAVI vaccine programme. On our trip to Sweden and Stockholm last Thursday and Friday we met Minister of Foreign Affairs Bildt and Minister of Assistance Carlsson. They briefed us on foreign policy and aid policy issues in Sweden. There was one thing I noticed about what Gunilla Carlsson said: that now the UN needs to be reformed properly, and not just on paper. ‘UN act as one’, or in Norwegian, one UN, has to become something more than just a slogan for the organisation, otherwise the World Bank can become the organisation with the greatest influence in the world. The UN must become relevant and take responsibility at land level, she said. I agree. We are one of the most important contributors to the UN. Let's make demands for reform, otherwise I think we should close the purse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e529	It is too early to say that 2011 will be the same for North Africa and the Middle East as 1989 was for Eastern Europe. We follow the demonstrators, and we follow developments closely. There are many signs in time that this is the possibility the people of North Africa and the Middle East have been waiting for a long time. Tunisia is rid of a dictator who has been sitting by the power of a human age, Egypt as well. Now there are upheavals that we've never seen in the region. The United States has supported the stability line in the region for 60 years, but it has been at the expense of democratic development. The words belong to Condoleezza Rice while she was still Secretary of State in the United States. It doesn't say so little about a policy that was wrong, when she adds at the same time that with the policy we haven't got to any of the parts. I believe unequivocally that our line, as a small nation, should always be that we seek to support democratic forces, democracy, respect for human rights, and that the desire for stability should never take precedence in such a discussion. What we now see in the whole region, among all the countries, is that we have for a long time highlighted the importance of extremism, while what we should have focused on were the three factors that have caused people to get into the streets: economics, dictatorships and mismanagement. Let me say in the case of disorder, that one has gone so far as to develop quite fundamental kleptocracies, where there have been friends and family who have become unruly rich at the expense of the rest of the population. I thought I'd take a couple of percentages that might be interesting and form an image in terms of understanding the region, especially regarding the percentage of the population under 30 years. In Tunisia, it's 50 pst. of the population under 30 years, while in Yemen is 72 pst. of the population under 30 years of age. All other countries lie between these. It is a challenge that is so fundamental, which is so important, that if you don't now, when you have the opportunity to move forward into the ranks of democracy, are able to deliver economic development, yes, then we can get a backlash and not least an extremist development that would once again be significant. If you withdraw youth unemployment between the ages of 15 and 24, then you rank between Saudi Arabia, which only has 16.3 pst, and Algeria, which has 45 pst. youth unemployment; I am not in doubt that these figures alone show that the regimes that have not yet received great protests in their streets will get it in a relatively short time, both from the economic indicators I am now referring to, and not least from the symbolic effect that it has been with Tunisia first and Egypt afterwards. These have been upheavals that have been driven through by the country’s own population. Our job – and there I am in line with the speakers who have been before me, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs – must be to play them a little better. Our job must never be to take the moralistic approach, that it must be, but raise the values we stand for and fight for. Once again, I want to go back to a couple of speakers who have been involved in what I would almost call a hypocritical approach to it, that we should have different principles associated with one region or one place in the world than what we have ourselves. We never have to – and let me never underline – be on. I just have to get into Iran quickly. We have now received reports from both Al Jazeera and the US news channel NBC and others. that the demonstrators are still out in Iran's streets, and not just in Tehran. It is very important that Norway also shows that we support the demonstrators, that we stand next to those screaming for democracy. The people of Iran deserve both respect for human rights and democracy. Let me just add the last thing: why did it take 30 years before the Socialist International banned the regime's parties from Tunisia and Egypt? [[President clubs]] Is it not time for the International Socialist to settle with all its undemocratic parties? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e546	Norway, together with its neighbouring countries in the Arctic, has undergone a raging development in terms of people-to-people cooperation and administrative cooperation. This is a cooperation based on dialogue and a common understanding of the challenges and opportunities we have in the region. Old historical examples of this are the migrations from Finland to North Norway, the pomor trade along the Finnish coast and border cooperation as we find it, for example. in the Lappe Codeisille. Another example is the only formal cooperation, known to me, between the Warsaw Pact and NATO during the Cold War, namely the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, an administrative cooperation which, up through history, has been very successful. This administrative cooperation had not been possible for Norway as a nation did not want to enter into a dialogue with what was then considered NATO's main enemy. The government has led a line based on dialogue, but with objectives of consensus on our common interests in the northern regions. This is why, for example: the criticism of the Foreign Minister's political line of dialogue after his talks with Hamas incomprehensible to me. Dialogue has also maintained a long cultural relationship in the north based on trade and interdependence – a thousand-year history, where peace and trade have shaped cohesion, not war, crises and conflict. This story has also laid the foundation for the mutual trust that is today between our neighbouring countries in the north. The ratification of the Russian-Norway border in the United Kingdom last week clearly shows this. The focus of this government on the development of the north is unique, if we compare with previous governments. Nevertheless, I will challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the way further in the North Region policy. The initiative already shows good results, but I miss one aspect of foreign policy that I want the Foreign Minister to take with me. Norway has through history, and then in the perspective I have already mentioned, has had long-standing people-to-people cooperation in the north. My claim is that the people of the region have been closely linked by mutual trade dependence. This trade has well anchored cooperation among the population of the region, and it gave the population tight governance in the development of cooperation. But this has changed. The monopoly of trade on Russian cereals and Norwegian fish, guided by the Hanseaten from Bergen, and geopolitical changes, as it calls the war, have, throughout history, led to a more state-directed development. This development now has stability in the region to change. For the future, the Barents Cooperation, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Arctic Council should create a greater room for better anchored cooperation between the local population in the areas. The border settlement certificate is an example of a policy that creates local anchoring, through new trading opportunities for the local population. The border settlement certificate gives the population of the region the opportunity to define its own role in this cooperation, as well as to upgrade the infrastructure to facilitate the transport and crossing of the border at Storskog in Pasvik. In this way, the government has delivered a large monn in cooperation with North-West Russia, and the government has also been able to anchor policy locally through policy action in this region. However, I do miss this kind of clear policy action against Finland and the other Nordic countries in the north. In my view, trade cooperation between Lapland in Finland and Norrbotten in Sweden still has a large and untapped potential. Enhanced cooperation on the transport of ores to our ice-free ports, tourism/travel life and energy is still waiting for implementation measures. In general, this is about establishing dialogue on how to remove frontier barriers, building appropriate infrastructure and creating new arenas for people-to-people cooperation based on trade and culture in these areas, a cooperation that has its true value if policies are used to bring the local population together in these areas, by facilitating trade and cultural exchanges. We have the political arenas, now it's time to be impatient. My input to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that concrete measures should now be targeted at the Nordic countries and that concrete measures will remove the barriers and create new venues for trade and cultural cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e578	Let me begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for an interesting and insightful presentation. We have been told that responsibility has been shared for many, many years between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance. Nevertheless, aid policy is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. And aid policy is hardly mentioned in the presentation. It's a However, the use of money is impressive. A country that Tanzania has accumulated over 22 billion. from Norway over a period of 50 years, but the results are not much to rejoice about. In the Progress Party, we therefore call for a strategy for the use of appropriations, a strategy with clear objectives, which can be verified for target achievement. And if we think that instead of traditional development and assistance measures, we would have spent 27 billion dollars. kr a year on industrial development and infrastructure, what impact would it have on the countries we are dealing with? I think the need for such a strategy has become urgent. Unfortunately, I must also say that it was also not impressive by the Minister of Foreign Affairs as regards the situation in the Gulf of Aden and the western part of the Indian Sea. Studies show that the losses caused by the pirates are now between 7 and 12 billion. $50-60 billion. kr – in the year. And this is not piracy done by desperate, poor, hungry and miserable Somalis. That might have been it at first. The solution may have been on land once in a while. But now this has become a big business. It's about suitcases with dollar bills in huge quantities. In 2010, an average of more than 5 million was paid. dollars per ship to be released. Today, 29 ships with 693 hostages are being held back in the area around Somalia. All major shipping nations are involved with marine vessels to combat this senseless terror, with the exception of Norway. I must say the foreign minister's attitude is pitiful. He said on 10 February that Norway should ‘assess a new Norwegian marine contribution’. This is even less than the Minister of Defence said during the budgetary procedure last autumn, when she promised such a contribution, but not until 2012. The hostages and the safety of ships involved in world trade cannot wait until next year. The Progress Party will therefore be promoting a proposal for a representative tomorrow, where we propose to send a frigate and associated vessel to the Gulf of Aden as soon as possible. Such a measure would slightly increase safety. It won't solve the problem, but it will make it a little safer for thousands of seafarers who are out doing their job, to the delight of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e593	There is little doubt that the financial crisis is still shaping our neighbourhood. Eurocooperation has been put to its first strong test, and many of us are excited about what will happen in the EU. Some trace the fall of the euro – I think it is very risky to predict anything. But perhaps the aftermath of the crisis and the serious situation in Greece, Ireland, Spain and the Baltic States will lead to stronger cooperation in the field of fiscal policy as well. The debate on more common budgeting, for example, is taking place. high. In any case, the crisis has made the need for financial markets to be regulated internationally. There's a lot of analysis of what really happened. This is going to be doctoral thesis for many years, but in the clear light of afterschool this is the same story that we've seen so many times before. One of the most informative books I have read is «This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly». It is written by the economic professors Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, and they go through financial crises over 800 years. The conclusion is simple and also very scary: when debt build-up takes place too quickly, there is trouble. When the build-up of debt occurs independently of the ‘orderly’ growth of the ‘orderly’ economy, it means that there are a lot of people investing in things that do not exist. Debt can be very good when invested in something that creates innovation and creates effects in the real economy, but gambling debt is the recipe for disaster. That's the way it is for individuals, and that's the way it is for nations. When the financial sector becomes so complex and so inconspicuous that it is out of line with the real economy, an illusion is created that it can make money on itself. The debt increases, but the money goes into papers, into pure gambling, and doesn't go into companies that create values. All countries have had their breakdown commissions — at least most. The UN has had its own, as the Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz led. And Norway has had its financial crisis selection with Jon Hippe in the head, they gave up their position a few weeks ago. It was a wide-ranging committee, and I must say that the conclusions of that committee are surprisingly coherent. Their report cannot be read as anything but a solid defence of the Nordic model, of income policy cooperation and of a well-regulated economy. They come up with a lot of suggestions. Some of them, in my view, are better than others, but all the answers, absolutely all the answers, point towards more regulation of this sector. One of the most interesting is that they point very clearly to the under-taxed financial sector and that the tax system can be used to stabilise. Now these proposals are being consulted, and we are going to come back to them in concrete terms, but I have to say that the reactions from, for example. Right somehow has been incredibly predictable. They have pulled their shoulders and said no, we cannot operate with strange regulations. Nevertheless, I am quite surprised that the Right does not perceive how their conservative party traps across Europe speak, and that they do not see the enormous space of action that has arisen, not to drive strange regulation, but to international regulation of the financial sector. This should not be done because one has stopped believing that markets work, but because one wants to protect the ‘orderly’ markets, where the actual value creation takes place, from casino activities. When Sarkozy, who can't exactly be characterised as some social democrat – he who is currently running the G20, leads the G8 – says that we have to tax the banks, the Right answers that we can't do anything strange, we can't regulate. It should be believed that conservatism was about protecting value creation and not claiming that everything that arises in a market is right. I am very pleased with the turn the international debate has taken. I believe that one can point to some of the very basic mechanisms that have created this crisis, and look optimistically at it. In the wake of other crises, we've got new institutions, like Bretton Woods. I'm excited about what's now coming out of the self-search that the world is in. Hopefully, in a few years' time someone will be able to write a book titled 'This Time Is Different'.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e612	On a day marked by developments in the Arab world, it may seem like a malaproposal to direct attention to more related issues, namely economic and social development in Europe – although the flow of refugees from North Africa to several southern European countries lately, from Tunisia to Italy, is a clear warning of what we can face in time. The flow of people fleeing poverty and hopelessness and seeking a better future in Europe will only increase unless there is hope for better economic and social development, freedom and democracy in their country of origin. The more important it is, therefore, to fend for universal human rights and social conditions in our own countries. We must neither allow nor allow a stream of cheap labour from low-cost countries to undermine wage and labour conditions in western industrialized countries. Norway is one of the most important contributors to the UN Labour Organisation, the ILO, and is working for a decent working life. In the ILO Conventions, the host country principle is absolutely fundamental, i.e. the host country's wage and working conditions are minimum conditions when workers from other countries take up work abroad. Norway and most EU countries have ratified ILO Convention No. 94, where this is confirmed. Nevertheless, we see that the EU is now challenging the ILO in this area by establishing its own case-law in the field of working life, in violation of the ILO's guiding principles. There are many who have registered with raised eyebrows that, with this as a background and on their own initiative, ESA challenges Norway as a direct result of the implementation of ILO principles in Norwegian legislation. As EU labour law also has an estimate of Norwegian labour law, it is in our interest to state that EU legislation does not have a precedent in relation to the ILO Conventions. It is discouraging to record that the European Union, or rather the European Court of Justice, by its case-law actually limits our ability and the ability of the trade union movement to combat social dumping. The Rüffert, Laval and Viking Line judgments have already become concepts of European labour law. On the basis of a comprehensive report, the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee has called for an amendment to the so-called Posting of Workers Directive in order to ensure that the pay and working conditions of workers are in line with the host country principle. The respect and right to enter into collective collective collective bargaining agreements is thus crucial. Despite the fact that this requirement has also been resonated in the European Parliament, there is little evidence that an extremely conservative EU Commission wants to comply with such a requirement. In the light of the financial and debt crisis, the European Commission has presented its annual review of economic developments in the EU in the current year. That's not a good reading. The Commission is now asking the Member States to further reduce their budget deficits, even by twice as much as previously foreseen. It is obvious that this will lead to lower demand and reduced welfare in many countries. In concrete terms, the Commission calls on Member States to reduce the benefits of the unemployed, to lower wages, to increase the retirement age and to privatise pension schemes, to increase indirect taxes rather than direct taxes, to reduce job protection and to increase competition in almost all areas. Everyone sees the need for a reduced budget deficit and debt reduction, more in some countries than in others. But there's always been a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. One-sided emphasis on fiscal measures and budget deficits will, in my view, drive the economic development of the EU in the wrong direction. A downward spiral is further revolutionised, and the total absence of growth impulses is driving the worst affected EU countries into hopelessness. If countries like Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain — and I will mention the United Kingdom — can work out of the crisis, they will depend on economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e627	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e631	First, I would like to join the speeches of the last two speakers, Mr Marthinsen and Mr Gullvåg. These are very important themes. I would like to raise a third theme, namely that if the world is to change, women must be included. Norway shows how important it has been for Norway that women have equal rights, that they participate in both policies, social life and employment in the same way. The Government also stresses that women’s rights are an objective in themselves and that this is a necessary prerequisite for achieving other development and foreign policy objectives. It is a kind of marker for change in human rights to be concerned with women's issues also in foreign policy. In the presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs focused on three countries in conflict: Sudan, Palestine and Afghanistan. In Sudan, women have been subjected to violence and abuse. In Palestine and in the conflict with Israel, women are missing at the negotiating table when trying to achieve peace. And in Afghanistan, women's lack of rights and oppression have been a topic for a long time – yes, some have even used it as a justification for the military actions there. I think I'm missing a little bit that the Foreign Minister hasn't had this woman's perspective stronger in his presentation. Three weeks ago, the government launched a national strategic plan for women, peace and security against Security Council Resolution 1325. In the launch, the Foreign Minister said that while mainly men are being killed in armed conflicts, women are being raped, abused and driven away and also used as a kind of strategic weapon in war. In Afghanistan, a woman dies in birth every 27 minutes, and in South Sudan, only 12 pst. by the women read and write. Iraq has 750,000 bases of war. When we discuss foreign policy, I believe that these perspectives must be included, because we are totally dependent on women being involved in settling conflicts and in getting good progress. From January 2011, Norway has been a member of the board of UN-Women. The new organisation has been a bet from the United Nations Member State, where Norway has played an active role in its design. It's interesting to see that the financial contributions to UNWomen are still small in relation to what other UN organisations get. I'm afraid it says a little bit about the emphasis. If we don't reverse that emphasis, we won't achieve the positive development in many countries that we want to pursue. So if the world is to change, the women have to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e644	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full, thorough and good presentation. In the globalised world we are now citizens of, we are interdependent. There are many conflicts, legitimate and illegitimate. Many of them affect us directly, others indirectly. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was thorough within the bodies and mechanisms that we can and must use, not only to prevent, but also to resolve conflicts. The most important thing is trust between people, nations and people. When I travel around the world and meet people, I am confronted with the arrogance of the West and lack of principle. We are praised for our loyalty to democracy and human rights, but in the same breath I am confronted with that we have double standards. I am confronted with the fact that we have closed our eyes to Russia's violation of human rights in Chechnya. Everyone sees that the West, led by the United States, does not do enough to bring the sufferings of the Palestinians to an end. There is a conflict in which violations of human rights, violations of the UN's clear resolutions and international law are solar clear. It's a complicated conflict, but no more complicated than the conflict in Sudan, where we've used all our influence to bring about a fair solution. We have used a lot of resources and political capital to end human rights violations in East Timor, but we are closing our eyes on human rights violations and the training of UN resolutions in Kashmir. We are clear about China's, Cuba's and Iran's human rights violations, but lukewarm about the United States' human rights violations, for example. in Guantanamo. We in the West are in favour of maintaining undemocratic regimes in Asia and Africa – active or passive. Hosni Mubarak's regime is a good example. No one in the West was in doubt that this man held his people and his country hostage, and deprived them of fundamental democratic rights. The regime in Saudi Arabia is another example, and the generals in Pakistan. The list is long. We close our eyes because it suits us best. Principle strength costs. But not following principles costs even more. The West has to correct the course, so that trust between people on the globe gets better. We need it much more than many others. We are a small nation, and depend on that there are principles in the world, not power and arrogance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e663	The representative Chaudhry just made a very important post, which affected many important conflicts and themes. Nevertheless, I wonder when he accuses the West of double-communing and double-moralism, and will ask the question whether he includes the red-green government in this, or whether it holds all these principles as high as the representative would wish. What I asked for the floor for was the attack by the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, on my attempt to speak warmly for uncritical free trade in food. What I spoke hotly for was putting in place a WTO agreement, where trade in agricultural products is an important element, not least from developing countries. What has been lying, and which I believe is still lying, in the draft agreement that is on the WTO table, is that developing countries are not immediately required to open their borders. This agreement is relatively asymmetric. The requirements are set for countries like Norway and not to the same extent for these developing countries. So my call is for Norway to open up. That challenge I am sending back to the Center Party: Does the Center Party not see that there is a policy that you can be involved in? Then I am also involved in giving greater scope for action to many of the developing countries to decide for themselves a pace, although I believe, believes and is convinced that a policy with a greater degree of free trade, including for developing countries, will provide better food security and better security for their situation. A situation with widespread use of protectionism, subsidies and closed borders has proved to be ineffective and will not work. It will not be the answer to the serious challenge pointed to by the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e672	The representative Karin Woldseth wondered if she and the Minister for Foreign Affairs lived in two parallel worlds, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs also drew up developments that we should enjoy. I have to say that I still wonder the same thing when I hear the description of the situation in our own country by the Progress Party, whether it happens here in the hall, outside this hall or abroad. It's important that we also have a look at what's getting better, in a world full of distress and misery, which it has to work with. It is important to find solutions that address the problems. That's not the same thing as closing your eyes for things that are shaky and crooked and things that we're going to charge, for example. The human rights situation in a country, including those with which we cooperate. So the representative, Morten Høglund, asked for some things in the presentation. It's one of the simplest criticisms you can make, because the world is great, and even an hour's presentation can't possibly cover everything. When Peter N. Myhre asks for assistance policy, I think he's in the wrong arena. This is a foreign policy statement, not an aid policy statement. The representative Morten Höglund believed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not changed Norwegian foreign policy. For a long time, there has been a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy – it is one of the strengths of Norway that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the broad lines of foreign policy. But I must say I am surprised if the representative, Mr Höglund, has not noticed a change of pace in foreign policy since the government change in 2005. We have had a shift in the pace of Northern Region policy and European policy. We have a trade policy where we now have free trade agreements with a large number of countries. So Höglund called for some coherence between what we want to achieve in the WTO and Norwegian budgetary policy. The link between foreign policy and budgetary policy is of interest if we look at the Progress Party's own alternative budgets. Morten Höglund believes that it is important to be present, for example. in new markets. We fully agree on that. But then, as the Progress Party does, you cannot cut the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget dramatically at the same time. In the 2010 budget they cut significantly, also on the operating budget of the U.D. They were a little less brutal in this year's budget, but still. It would make it much more demanding to have the Norwegian flag and presence where we should be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e685	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very thorough presentation. It goes without saying - it's obvious - that the explanation cannot be comprehensive. We live in a time when things are happening very much around us. We get results in some areas, while we see that in other areas there are setbacks. As others have said in the debate, the world is fortunately moving forward. I would like to make a strong request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the small debate on the situation in the Gulf of Aden, which we have had today. It requires the government to make a clarification, and it requires the government to take action and take action. We see that also significant Norwegian values – along with the world’s merchant fleet – are now being plagued. And we see that other institutions, like the European Union, act where we wait and see it. So it is my cautious request that we now clarify what kind of activity and support the Norwegian government will do in this area. There have been concepts such as 'double standards', 'we close our eyes', etc. Maybe there's a lot in these expressions. We see that a Middle East that is partly on fire today causes – fortunately – democratic forces to trigger this development. The question can be asked: What comes from the fact that Norwegian media and also Norwegian politics have not been able to see a trace of this in advance? Is it in our blindness to the resistance of many people and hatred of the nation of Israel that we have not seen what is happening on this gigantic continent that stands for the world's most significant oil and gas reserves, where we see that oligarchs, emirs and others oppress people every day, where democracy is a foreign word, where oppression has been the rule, where we see that we have partly also contributed indirectly – not directly – to maintaining a situation that has been a sort of indirect support for a sustained policy, because our opposition to the nation of Israel has been flagged and spotted more than anything else? I perceive both the Foreign Minister's presentation and the debate today so that this will be over and that we will support the democratic forces. And it must not be like someone says, that democracy takes a long time to develop, that it should be built stone by stone. Either we support democratic forces, or we don't. There can be no 40-year transitional period here, some of which is actually reflected in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e694	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and in many areas a deep account of the foreign policy situation and what is moving around us. I am a little surprised that this debate today has not taken on board two very important things that I thought the Foreign Minister concerned will have a major impact on us in the long term and that we need to discuss more in this House, namely the modernisation of NATO and the Treaty of Lisbon and the constructive concept that has now been implemented with this Treaty, which in many ways modernises the NATO alliance. What stands out clearly, and as the Foreign Minister also stressed in his statement, is that we now need to take more responsibility for our neighbourhoods, and we need to strengthen our sovereignty and our jurisdiction in our areas. I think it is very important that we pay attention to it – what is now in the new Treaty and is underlined: here the role of defence is becoming more and more important; the independent role of defence, but also in cooperation with civil society. The strategic concept that NATO has now adopted is a milestone for the alliance, and once again the main task is the collective defence, which is the pillar of NATO. It was also mentioned another thing that I think is very important also in the new concept, namely that operations like NATO take place far away on behalf of the alliance – cf. Afghanistan and, more than anything else, must not be at the expense of the main task of the alliance and our own territories. I think that's also a very important signal. There is a lot of activity in the Arctic and will be more in the future in the Barents Sea – and not least in the Baltic Sea. We will then have the northern dimension of the European Union brought about, all based on a general, respectful and proper cooperation here. But this is also where we need to look more closely, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was talking about: the Stoltenberg report and what it involves. The Foreign Affairs Committee has now been visiting Sweden, and we took up these signals and the things in that report, and that was very interesting. But what is increasingly emphasised by the Swedish side, and which we are already in the process of implementing, is closer cooperation also in the field of defence policy, with renewal, training together, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e709	Out of respect for speakers who come after me, some brief comments: I am a little surprised that the representative Woldseth believes that my statement informs me that everything in the world is so unilaterally good. I have to think thoroughly through how I formulated myself; I tried to present the complexity. We must make demands on the UN. There was a separate wording on this in the statement, that a good friend makes demands and is careful about how to provide support. I was not involved in Iran in my presentation, but there was a strong principleal argument about support for democracy, about why civil society must get a voice. Then there are a lot of countries that you can mention, but it is the principle attitude that is important – while we cannot apply this from the outside. It was also a point in my statement that the examples of democracy applied from the outside in the last decade have shown very mixed experiences. What we now see is that this democracy comes from below, through the people's own voice, and it's about finding the right way to support it. To the representative Willy Pedersen, I would like to say that he had good points about the importance of cooperation in the north – trade, people-to-people – not only with Russia, but also with Sweden and Finland. It's actually a priority part of our North Region effort to increase the bet in the north across the borders, with our Nordic neighbours. The representative Karin Andersen was in the women's perspective. It's absolutely crucial, and it could be emphasized. We have emphasized this with UN Resolution 1325, ten years later, new strategy, etc. Also here in the hall: an important debate that we had a few weeks ago. And that also includes: of course, when civil society is to be involved in how society is formed, it has to be absolutely central. The representative of Høglund was concerned that Norway should open up to agriculture in the WTO. I can promise that if the agreement that is now signed, what has so far emerged at the WTO's agricultural chapter, would become a reality, the strong challenge to Norway is to open up, if that is the concept you want to use. Cut in internal support, cut in customs duties and eliminate export support — it is heavily sluggish, and few will notice it tougher than Norway. That is why we must participate in the negotiations, but also take care to safeguard our interests. Finally, I would like to say to the representative of Kristiansen: the piracy is taking us by the hand, is worrying us, and we need to take action. But I would like to stress that the rather light faith that only we get more weaponry on board the boats, we have managed the problem, must at best be nuanced. Guards on board boats are a legitimate question to travel. We're going to give a good answer to what Norwegian legislation is like. Norway has been leading the work on watchkeeping standards and standards for sailing procedures in these areas. The vessels following these procedures have escaped better than others, and all Norwegian vessels have done so. But this is something that we are of course very concerned about, as said, having travel activities in the region, having presence in the region, and we shall be active on all the agendas that it is possible to influence this very serious matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e726	Morten Höglund has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e729	In order for a misunderstanding not to be attached: I did not express myself in such a way that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not moved Norwegian foreign policy – absolutely not. I was talking about important policy areas that affect the space of foreign policy, and I referred to agricultural policy and defence policy as two such areas. So the Foreign Minister could mention other issues. I was not so concerned about it, I was concerned that when the Minister for Foreign Affairs e.g. analysed the Middle East, as he himself mentioned, was not mentioned in Iran. I think it was a flaw in that dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e736	Just after my previous post, the representative Morten Höglund tried to make a cheap point. He is so reflected and so good that he could stick too well to it. Yes, my government and the Advancement Party are, for example, agree that there is a violation of human rights in Iran. We stand together when it comes to the criticism of it. But then the question is, where is the Progress Party when there is a violation of human rights in Gaza – 1.5 million people have been held hostage for over ten years. There is a total violation of human rights and human dignity in Gaza. Where, then, is the Progress Party? When Israel, the strongest army in the Middle East, invaded the weakest people of the Middle East in 2008, 1,500 people — a third of them children — were killed in Eidsvoll’s place, and demonstrated Israel’s right to self-defense. We all agree on Israel's right to self-defense, but the question is, Where was the Progress Party to defend the justice of the weakest people at that time, and where has the Progress Party been later? I tried in my first post to explain that we are so self-absorbed that we do not see violations of human rights in the conflicts that very many other people around the world see. We all see Iran, some of us see what is happening in Gaza, but for example. The party of progress doesn't do that. That's what double morals have to be charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e747	One of the most combustible foreign policy issues, which has also been affected so far today, is how to deal with Iran, which is trying to obtain nuclear weapons. There seems to be no diplomatic effort or penalty, and there seems to be a need to plan for a situation where the consequences of Iran as a nuclear power have to be dealt with. If Iran is willing to use nuclear weapons, initially to press or threaten, or supply others with such weapons, it will also distort the balance of power of the region. Nuclear weapons will allow Iran to act increasingly aggressively, including through the threat of the use of conventional force. It could also frighten the countries that are US supporters in the region, as well as likely to do things for themselves to acquire weapons, and thus get a regional competition to acquire nuclear weapons. Then we'll be able to face up to the fact that this could reduce the ability of the United States to promote Western interests in the region. In this climate, one might then go into a situation of unstable regimes that are in inner disintegration and where opinion can be affected. Countries without democratic traditions, yes, not even elementary legal traditions, will, under the impression of the presence of new regional nuclear power, be able to take a non-democratic direction. Unfortunately, there is no clear historical experience that the fall of one dictator leads to the emergence of a humane idealist. The strongest political force in the Middle East is linked to radical Islamism – not Islam as a religion, but as an ideology. But there are also national differences that give hope. Hope is greatest in those countries that have experienced an increasing form of secularisation. Democracy depends on the organisation of political institutions in a balance of power. Egypt has been a review theme here today, and we must note that such institutions have not been developed in Egypt. Moreover, Egypt itself is a historical example of an autocracy that has shown a capacity for self-renewal by finding new authoritarian leaders within the framework of the military structure who have been able to accept or even drive forward. The country gained independence in 1922, after the United Kingdom withdrew. It followed two kings, the last of whom – King Farouk – was overthrown by coup in 1952. A republic was established in 1953 under Naguib, but when he tried to experiment with multi-party systems in the beginning of 1954, it was the end of that experiment. Historical traces are somewhat alarming here, and there is reason to follow developments in vigilance also for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e761	I didn't mean to say so much more today, but the representative Akhtar Chaudhry made clear requests that we are not there and keep our tab high on human rights violations. We do, so that's where the representative Akhtar Chaudhry makes a positive mistake. We're at most arenas in terms of human rights violations. And we're taking this up with, for example. the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The representative can see that if he goes in and looks at all the questions we've asked. Chaudhry makes it sound like we're very one-sided proisrale. Now it has been said that after the conflict in Gaza, the representative, Höglund, went there to see with his own eyes, and he made very crass criticisms of both Hezbollah, Hamas and Israel. So the picture is not black and white. It's nuances, and I'm absolutely sure that the representative Akhtar Chaudhry is with us to fight for human rights. I will also support the post he had initially, which was a very good post, and which I can fully support. I have also planned to bring a little visit to the representative of Sven Roald Hansen regarding the criticism of Peter N. Myhre, where he says that taking up aid policy here is misplaced. Assistance policy is part of foreign policy, and, as far as I know, all assistance is outside Norway and is therefore part of foreign policy. Now it's probably just like this that we're going to stick around for an engagement. When some representatives of the Storting actually have a genuine commitment to something in foreign policy, we're going to take care of that commitment and welcome it instead of sagging it down and criticizing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e790	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e808	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e826	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e844	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e862	We are halfway through our term of office in the UN Human Rights Council. Nearly two years ago, there was an inter-pelling debate here in the Chamber, starting with the question of how the Minister for Foreign Affairs would contribute to strengthening the UN human rights machinery, travelled by the representative Morten Höglund. The backstop at the time was a concern that the new Council would be in the same blind street in which the old Commission on Human Rights had ended – with imprudence, lack of support for the Commission's mandate and without the ability to remove political sympathy or antipathies in the fight against human rights violations. This blindway was the background to Kofi Annan proposing to replace the Commission with the UN Human Rights Council and an organisation that would give higher priority and status to this important work. The new MR Council was directly placed at the UN General Assembly, confirming the central role of human rights. In the debate almost two years ago, the Council was early on in its work. Now we have another two years of experience in building assessments, and we have some time left in our term of office – time to take new initiatives to help the Council to fulfil its function in the best possible way. The creation of respect for fundamental human rights should be a central commitment of any authority in any country. It has been over 62 years since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. On the basis of this declaration, the then MR Commission developed international legislation in the field of human rights. The significance of this normative work cannot be overestimated, although the fractures are still numerous. In many countries, the fractures are systematic and integrated into regime structures. The Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Torture Convention, the Children's Convention, the Women's Convention and the Racial Discrimination Convention have provided people throughout the world with a legally binding basis for the accountability of their authorities. I'm sure these conventions have helped to make life better for millions of people around the world, even though they are not being complied with in too many countries. I believe it was right for Norway to apply for membership of the MR Council. We want to be an active driver of human rights. It is on the agenda of our international contacts. We have our own MR dialogues with China, Vietnam and others. Then it was right to also search this arena for our MR work. So we know that the work on strengthening human rights poses challenges, both of a practical and strategic nature. How much work is to be done in the public space and how much is to be done outside the public spotlight? How do we best engage the worst with the greatest possible result? In the MR Council, we meet the same dilemmas. It is obvious that not all Member States have the same ideal basis for membership that we believe to have. But the UN is not a union of like-minded people. It embraces all the land of the world. In it lies both the strength and the weakness. We hardly get changes where they are really needed, if we are not willing to be inside, to engage and challenge these countries. Who would benefit from us withdrawing from such an arena and not participating in the UN's own body for the protection of human rights? What kind of signal would that be? One thing is certain: the losers would primarily be those who need this protection. Then we can be frustrated by the lack of efficiency, because work does not go as fast as we would like. At times with good reason. But it is in the nature of the matter that the work on human rights is politically sensitive. In the human rights regime, it is states that are outlaws. This is the core of the challenge. It is the same countries that are all-overs who are also responsible for ensuring protection. Then we can't expect the same states that violate human rights at home to be drivers to strengthen international surveillance. This means that it is not possible to organise itself away from the strong political contradictions that have marked the work of human rights for a long time. The Nissen joins in the load. The work of the MR Council will also be marked by these contradictions. Reorganisation from the Commission to the Council does not remove political contradictions. Nor can it prevent a majority from ensuring that some regimes escape too easily, while others may get too much and too one-sided criticism. But we can use this platform to keep the states responsible. That's why I want an active government in the MR Council, a government that wants to use the membership and the powers it gives to be there. I also believe that the new MR Council provides greater opportunities to strengthen the work of the UN to ensure the implementation of human rights and to hold countries responsible for the implementation of the treaties they have signed. The Human Rights Council gives us a number of mechanisms to make those states responsible for violating human rights. The regular annual sessions of the MR Commission often made it difficult to address the current challenges facing the world. It is therefore a clear step forward that it was decided that the new MR Council should be able to meet as necessary. It allows the Council to become an important player in crisis situations and serious violations of human rights. The Middle East crisis led, for example, to hold three special sessions in the MR Council in 2007. Two of these led to very concrete follow-up on the ground. A delegation was sent to investigate the situation in the Palestinian area, while a commission of inquiry examined the human rights situation in Lebanon. Another improvement is that all countries are now subject to a review by the Council. It is an answer to the criticism of discrimination. These universal, periodic reports could eventually become a tool for assessing and monitoring the human rights situation in most countries in the world. I had the pleasure of attending the hearing of Norway in the MR Council last year. The director of the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, Nils Butenschøn, recently said this about this hearing: a solid preparatory work was carried out by the department, and Støre's performance was obvious. I can sign that character set. No other country had yet allowed itself to be represented at such a high political level during the examination. It was noted internationally. But what's equally important was the way the critical comments were met. Norway did not go in defence, but showed that they took the critical comments seriously and were open to the need for changes and improvements. This will set standards that make it more difficult for the injuries to be examined. A third point on the improvement list is the UN Special Rapporteurs. These are mechanisms developed by the Human Rights Commission — not always on the basis of agreement within the Commission, and often with mandates that could certainly be sharper, but strong enough to enable the dedicated human rights experts, who have fulfilled some of these mandates, to do a good job. Norway has taken the lead in strengthening the situation of the world’s MR defenders through the establishment of the mandate of a Special Rapporteur for Human Rights Defenders. This work continues under the Council. The Council has unanimously renewed this mandate. The Special Rapporteur conducts country visits and follows up individual letters of complaint from MR defenders. Since the establishment of the mandate, the Special Rapporteur has addressed several thousand requests to States and has contributed to the concrete protection of very many MR defenders. The Foreign Minister drew up his foreign policy statement, which we have just debated, the work of the Human Rights Council and pointed to our commitment to the adoption of a resolution on the cessation of executions as a criminal form, the commitment to the increased protection of MRs and the monitoring of laws that discriminate against women and the recognition of lesbians, gays, biphiles and transpersonal rights. There was an invocation to this interpellation. I look forward to the Minister of Foreign Affairs being able to go deeper into what our membership of the MR Council has provided the basis for contributing to the strengthening of human rights work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e906	Thank you to the representative Svein Roald Hansen for raising the question, and thank you for a very good introduction, which deepened the written question. Following the adoption of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, the UN Commission on Human Rights played an important role in the normative development that followed in the next decades. But, as Hansen's representative points out, this Commission increasingly appeared to be a politicised body without the ability to promote real changes. It became an arena for east-west and north-south conflicts. At the same time, expectations of the international bodies increased. The 1990s and the beginning of the new millennium had provided several important innovations to strengthen the protection of individuals from serious and systematic abuses, not least demonstrated by the establishment of the International Criminal Court in 2001. As Hansen's representative was involved, the then UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, went in to wind up the Commission and replace it with a stronger system for the promotion of human rights. At the 2005 UN High Level Meeting, world leaders followed up the reform proposal by two important decisions. First, the establishment of the UN Human Rights Council to replace the Commission, and then a strong increase in the budget of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. This enabled the High Commissioner’s leadership in the field of human rights and allowed for a strengthened presence in the field. The ability to put the UN decision into practice was clearly strengthened. The creation of the new Council provided a number of innovations. The representative Hansen was in on some of them, but let me mention for my part three: Firstly, the Human Rights Council gained more formal status than the Commission. The Council is directly below the UN General Assembly, while the Commission’s decision had to be implemented through ECOSOC. This means that the Council Decision may be implemented immediately, unless there are budgetary implications that need to be addressed in the general meeting. Secondly, the Commission met regularly only six weeks a year, and was therefore often not up-to-date on current events relevant to human rights. The Human Rights Council is much more flexible: it meets regularly throughout the year, and may convene meetings in a short time. It may also use several different meeting formats, adapted to different needs. Thirdly, a so-called periodic land hearing system was established, so-called Universal Periodic Review, UPR, of the human rights situation in all of the UN Member States, on which the representative Hansen was involved. I also want to get back to this a little bit. All these issues have given advice a stronger position than the Commission had. For the government it was natural to apply for membership of the Council in 2009, both because the Council is the United Nations central membership body in the field of human rights, and if we want to make a difference, we need to be involved, and because we wanted to influence during a crucial period of the Council’s ‘childhood’ and initial year. When the Human Rights Council was established, it was decided that the Council should be reviewed after five years. This review is now in progress this spring. With Norway as the representative of the Western Group, and thus the Vice-President of the Council, we are strategically positioned to defend the strengths of the Council and to counter attempts to weaken it. The United States concluded, as it is known, its non-commitment policy, the disengagement policy, and was elected to the Council at the same time as Norway. We have now left behind half the membership period, and I would like to state that Norway has achieved a number of areas through strategic efforts. Participation benefits. Let me mention something: Our main focus is on selected thematic priorities: work on freedom of expression and free media, equality and women's rights, the fight against discriminatory legislation and the fight against international recognition of lesbian, gay and transhumance rights, the ban on torture, the protection of children's rights and the rights of indigenous people. Among the important breakthroughs I will mention these: Firstly, Norway is now leading the negotiations of the UN Human Rights Council on the protection of human rights defenders. These are people who in many countries work under extreme conditions, despite threats and persecution for others to realise their human rights. Negotiations are very demanding, but have produced good results. The Resolution establishes the mandate of a UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights Defenders. The Special Rapporteur does a work that gives concrete results. For the past few years, she has, among other things, visited Colombia, Armenia, Congo and India, addressed the situation of human rights defenders with the authorities and focused on both female human rights defenders and non-governmental abusers. The Special Rapporteur follows up on a daily basis individual cases in which human rights defenders are subjected to abuse. In a month’s time, Norway will again lead the Council through negotiations to ensure the renewal of its mandate. Secondly, Norway is also leading the process of clarifying the human rights responsibilities of the business community. The UN Special Representative for the Responsibility of Business for Human Rights is doing an important new work to ensure that business complies with basic legal standards. Norway will lead the process of adopting the draft guidelines of the Special Representative in this area now in June. This too is a sensitive issue, where we expect demanding negotiations, but where I believe we can make a difference – something that we, among other things, do. contributed to, I think, during the Trygve Lie seminar in New York last September, where we got to put these questions on the agenda in a different context. Thirdly, Norway also uses its vote in the Council to address serious violations of human rights in countries with oppressive regimes. During the Council session in the autumn of 2010, we focused in particular on the very serious situation in Iran. We also participated actively during the treatment of e.g. Burma, North Korea, Sudan, Kenya, Afghanistan and Congo. This is a sensitive, demanding and important political work, but an arena we can actually use. The inter-pellant's question gives an opportunity to point to an absolutely crucial situation in order to understand the challenges we face, not just in the Council, but in all international work and all international human rights work: the importance of taking over the reality of foreign policy, that many countries do not actually want to strengthen the protection of human rights, and that these countries are also among the UN members, and we meet them in a number of forums – including here. In the Council, there is a fixed division of places between the five different regions of the United Nations. While the Commission had 53 member countries, the Council has 47. At the same time, the Council has had a composition that reflects more strongly the UN and the world's geography today – not unfairly. The Asia and Africa groups dominate, while the Western group and Latin American countries together account for a minority — for this is the world. Better representativeness gives the Council greater legitimacy, but also some challenges. It is a reality that the Human Rights Council, like its predecessors, is marked by regional contradictions and contradictions based on group thinking, often between developed countries and developing countries, and between the West and the Muslim world. Also, in the debate on interpellation, raised by the representative, Höglund, in the spring of 2008, i.e. prior to Norway's membership of the Council, I stressed that no institutional reform can change these global developments. As a member, we have worked strategically to promote our foreign and human rights policy objectives in a new and demanding international landscape. To get through, we depend on new support players. We have to think about something new in our way of working. On a case-by-case basis, we must work to break the negative block formation that characterises part of the UN work. Alliance construction across established groups has become a Norwegian trademark, and it has produced some good results. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, discrimination against women is taking place around the world, and together with Mexico, Colombia, the United States and Slovenia, Norway was implemented last autumn in order for the Council to set up a working group to shed light on laws that discriminate against women, for example: laws prohibiting women from owning and engaging in business. Secondly, during the last session, the decision to appoint a UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Association and Assembly was a milestone. The United States was the driving force behind the decision, in cooperation with other countries such as Nigeria and Indonesia — and Norway — once again an example of finding new partners and working across regions and groups producing results. I was also involved in my foreign policy statement. And a third example: I mentioned the introduction of the periodic human rights hearings – UPR – as one of the most important innovations in the establishment of the Human Rights Council. I say this, emphasizes the significance of it, for four reasons: First, land hearings have given the Council the opportunity to shed light on the human rights situation in countries that have so far been able to avoid this. The land hearings are universal. All countries are heard on equal terms, and, as the representative said, I conducted the Norwegian Questionnaire myself when Norway was questioned and got critical questions. In addition, civil society and other actors are involved. And finally, Country is being consulted every four years. It offers good opportunities for comparison and follow-up. The country hearings have therefore also produced results: several countries join human rights conventions, provide reports to the Convention bodies and invite UN Special Rapporteurs to land visits. Norway is giving high priority to these consultations. In cooperation with our embassies and civil society in Norway, the Norwegian delegation participates with critical questions and concrete recommendations. The mechanism is new, and it is only when we see whether the recommendations are being followed up or not that we want to see if the land hearings pass the long-term test. Norway is therefore doing its utmost to focus on precisely this: follow-up at country level so that the mechanism really achieves its objective, to improve the human rights situation for the individual. In sum, I believe that the Human Rights Council has given us new opportunities. It's not all going to be what we want. But nothing becomes what we want, if we're on the outside. Now we have an opportunity, and we're actively exploiting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e969	I thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough answer, and an answer that I believe confirms that it was right to apply for membership of the Council, and that it has given us an arena where we can take initiatives and where we can actually achieve results. Let me just bring in another moment that affects us at home, and that is that during this year Norway's own national human rights institution is to be assessed for so-called reaccreditation in accordance with the Paris principles. Today, the Center is attached to the University of Oslo. One of the criteria is that the centre shall be fully independent of the authorities, a criterion to which the Norwegian Centre is authorised. Nevertheless, questions have been raised as to whether this organisation is satisfactory, especially after national centres have had a formal role in the international authorities. New requirements and expectations for the functioning of national centres are raised. The question raised is, inter alia: whether the Norwegian MR Centre can meet these requirements. It's just as much about capacity and the combination with the task as a university unit. Our center should be the only thing that combines these roles. There is now an assessment of this, and I think this will also be a piece that we need to ensure international acceptance and respect in terms of organisation, capacity and competence, so that none of the countries we can characterise as ‘hosting states’ in this field can point to what they think are weaknesses in the monitoring situation at home, and try to use it as a fig leaf for their own neglect. I expect the government will ensure that our MR centre gets an organization that of course still gives us accreditation, but also international acceptance that it can play that role, and fill the role that it is expected to have. Then I just want to add, as an emphasis on how demanding this field is: Human Rights are universal. Many countries have signed them without complying with them. But we do, for example, see in meetings in China, where we pointed out the lack of freedom of expression, the imprisonment of oppositionals, etc., that they thus drew out the fundamental human rights, which also includes ensuring people food, house and work. They're in another place, as they said. The same answer was given to Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland when we were in Moscow in 1988 – by Gorbachev: they are in a different place. We must have an understanding that we are in a place other than theirs, but without, for that reason, reducing the requirements for what are also fundamental rights: freedom of expression, democracy, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e982	It's true that the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at kgl. In 2001, the resolution became a national institution, and it is independent. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to express itself in recognition of the efforts made by the Centre in the years in which it has had this function. This national institution is financed by a separate item in the State budget of the U.D. That is the way in which the representative is concerned that a reaccreditation process should be carried out after those years and that is in view of the fact that this centre was assessed in 2006 to comply with the so-called Paris principles and that such a status A decision should be reviewed after five years. The time has come for it. In the light of that reaccreditation process, the U.D. has decided to obtain an external analysis of the Norwegian Centre for the Implementation of Human Rights as a national institution in accordance with the Paris principles. So it's external and it's going to be carried out by an authority that's capable of carrying out such an assessment, so that we're as rusty as possible. The report is expected to be completed next month, and we will then await the report and the evaluation to be carried out by the International Coordination Committee in May, before considering the need for any follow-up. It is important that Norway, as the representative says, delivers fully according to the requirements, and we also intend to do so in the further work on this centre and the national institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e989	I would first like to thank Svein Roald Hansen for giving us this opportunity to discuss the UN Human Rights Council and the Foreign Minister for his reply. My post is a matter of concern. Last November, the UN Human Rights Council voted in favour of a resolution on extrajudicial and arbitrary executions. The resolution mentions groups that have been historically subject to such executions, such as street children, human rights defenders and ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities. For more than ten years, it has also mentioned sexual orientation. So the world community has agreed that it's unacceptable to kill homosexuals. The wording proposed last year was deleted by Benin, who spoke on behalf of Africa. The proposal was supported by 79 countries, 70 voted against. The case received little attention in Norwegian media, but raised awareness and anger in international human rights environments. The Norwegian-Venezuela human rights activist Thor Halvorssen, as well as standing behind the Oslo Freedom Forum, was unmerciful in his judgment: the message is clear: it's all right to kill gays. That was actually the signal from the United Nations. In December, the resolution came to the UN General Assembly. Fortunately, there was a majority to reintroduce the formulation of sexual orientation. The World Declaration of Human Rights is 63 years old this year and prohibits all forms of discrimination. Nevertheless, homosexuals are discriminated against around the world, and in over 80 countries it is still illegal to be gay. Unfortunately, in many places developments seem to be going in the wrong direction: in many countries freedom of expression is not a matter of course for homosexuals, and in many countries the police harass homosexuals and transgenders. In Iran, the death penalty is frequently practised. In Uganda, the National Assembly discusses the imposition of the death penalty, and one of the country's largest newspapers printed last year's names and pictures of 100 open gays, with a clear call: Hang them! In January the news came that someone had taken the newspaper's call seriously: One of the 100, activist David Kato, was found killed in his home. If the UN is not to stand upright in the defence of people who are subjected to such gross human rights violations, who is to do so? Tuesday 21 December was also a brand day – of the sad variety – for the UN Human Rights Council. Then the Council, once again, adopted a resolution aimed at combating religious criticism. In fact, the majority was smaller than before, but the UN does not stand up for freedom of expression. The protection against religious criticism is an attack on freedom of expression and thought and helps to legitimize religious intolerance. Last November, Asia Bibi, a Christian farm worker in Pakistan, was sentenced to death in accordance with the country’s blasphemy legislation after having been in a dispute with the neighbors. Her case is not unique. I have no doubt that Norway's participation in the Human Rights Council is important and that Norwegian authorities are doing everything they can to combat the decisions mentioned. However, the two issues challenge the legitimacy of the Council, make it clear that power shifts are taking place in the world, and raise important questions. The last year has shown that Norway and the countries with which we share basic values meet well-organised opponents. We're forced to take'rematches' about principles we thought were firm, and we lose some battles about human rights in the UN. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously pointed out that a raised index finger is of little help. The question is: how can Norway maneuver and win in this new terrain? I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs today shows that work across geographic blocks and in new alliances is producing results. Head of the PEN Club, Anders Heger, asked an important question in a chronicle in the evening post: ‘Can we imagine a situation in which the guardians of the UN Declaration of Human Rights pose a real threat to freedom of expression?’ The same question can be asked with regard to the protection of minorities. Are the backlogs in the UN occupational accidents or the symptoms of toleration in the world’s society?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1018	There's an interesting question the interpellant addresses. It may well be that we have received a briefing from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the matter, but I personally am of the opinion that the Human Rights Council should have managed to set the agenda to a much greater extent than today and be much higher in its own right. The Human Rights Council has the task of promoting universal respect for and protection of all human rights and freedoms – for all people and groups. The Council shall work on matters and issues relating to violations of human rights, including serious and systematic violations of human rights. So this is the starting point. But when the composition of the Human Rights Council becomes such that a number of organisations outside the UN system are deeply concerned and highly critical of the Council, we who are inside should probably listen. I can mention that both Freedom House, UN Watch and Human Rights Watch are very concerned. The problem for the Council is that the effort for human rights will not be better than the Member States that sit there accept. Who, then, is in this Council, and how are the human rights of these countries? I just want to mention, for example, China, Libya and Saudi Arabia, which are countries that can hardly boast that they follow universal rules of human rights. These are just a few of the very many countries where human rights are not central. How can Norway accept that the Human Rights Council will not be allowed to talk about sharialover, that in Uganda people are being persecuted and tortured by a sexual orientation other than ‘normal’, or Belarus, which clearly violates freedom of expression? What has Norway done to exempt from membership of the Council the countries which are obviously in breach of the Convention? I assume that there are sanctions against countries in the Council that are violating the Convention, in line with other international organisations. What does it do if Norway engages, when part of the council is made up of murderers and rapists? I don't know if the Foreign Minister is aware that in the five years that the Council has existed, there have been 35 judgments of Israel and a little over a dozen when it comes to the rest of the world. The only times there has been an urgent debate in this Council has been when there has been a case against Israel. Excuse me, President, so you point your finger at the only democracy in the Middle East, while you do nothing to the rest of the countries. The only thing we hear is a deafening silence. So the Council has chosen to close its eyes to the victims in China, Cuba, Iran, Saudi Arabia, not to talk about Zimbabwe. So the question becomes finally: what is the difference between the council and the Commission, and what has been accomplished? I'm finally going to try to be a little constructive, not just negative and critical. Because, as we heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway has been given something in some areas, and media freedom, freedom of expression, children's rights, human rights defenders and the basic legal standard of business have been put on the agenda. But I'm actually going to encourage the Foreign Minister and the department that works for him to perhaps make themselves a little bit more visible. I think it is very few in the Norwegian population who are aware that Norway is part of the Human Rights Council. Perhaps you should build an image and be a little out of the way, and not make it a member of the Human Rights Council, to Norway's best-kept secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1037	The President has some doubts as to whether it is very parliamentary to say that those who sit on the UN Human Rights Council are ‘killers and violent perpetrators’, but do not intend to defeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1040	First of all, thank you to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, both for his posts and for the interpellation, and also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me also add that the post that Haugli's representative had was unusually good, it was basically. I can say I absolutely agree with all of his considerations. Human rights are universal, and we must base the same positions when we are in the Council and when we are out of the Council. All people are equally worth it. It's not geographical divisions, it's not religious divisions or, for that matter, other divisions. Our positions must always be the same, whether you are talking to large trading partners or, for that matter, Europe's last dictatorship – Belarus. The Human Rights Council has the task of promoting universal respect for and protection of all human rights and freedoms for all people and groups. It is strange from such a perspective to look at the 47 members of the Council – and one might say that a parliamentary concept in this way will be – with a ‘various’ background. As others have noted, there is a lot of criticism in individual countries, and other countries that are largely free of criticism. This also applies to countries that have signed the Convention — a good convention, which is a principle and which clearly demonstrates how human rights should actually be exercised. Not terribly long ago, the Storting had a discussion associated with Burma. It was in the context of an interpellation, where the foreign minister and I were in a small polemics related to what his colleague Solheim had done on his first trip. I would have regretted if I had said something wrong. Now it turned out that what I actually said was right. Let me say in this context what actually happened. In January 2009, Norway’s Minister of Assistance met Burma’s junta. He met no one from the democracy movement, but he met, according to the U.D., authorities, international relief organizations and foreign diplomats. The icon effect of such an action is significant. The same can be said of the symbolic effect of Norwegian assistance in general. On the right, a seminar – also not long ago – entitled ‘Can aid promote democracy and human rights?’ There is no doubt that aid plays such a role. A good example will be Ethiopia, where the regime is so-called ‘donor darling’, which receives fabulous international support purely financially, but which moves further away from respect for human rights and democracy – whether you are on the inside and part of the regime, or you are on the outside, and despite the fact that you are delivering good economic results. The same applies to China, which is another example. It can be seen that Norway and – I want to add – a number of other countries are cautious about their criticism of China because it is such an important international trading partner. It depends on what I said, you're not on the outside or on the inside – either you respect human rights or you don't. Our criticism should in any case be linked to those who do not respect them. Then we also had an interview about the human rights dialogues and the role they play. I want to say more in principle that it is extremely important that we have a human rights focus in everything we do. Whether it is in connection with the Human Rights Council, whether it is in connection with assistance in general, or whether it is in connection with debates in the United Kingdom, respect for human rights must take precedence over all other issues. Then I can conclude – even if the previous one had actually been a good conclusion – by giving commendation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the management of our human rights examination in the Council of Human Rights. The country’s foreign minister’s meeting, defending the nation in relation to the issues that arise, has once again had a splendid symbolic effect in the face of criticism. We're not perfect. We're pretty good, but we're far from perfect. We also need to be open, as the Foreign Minister was, to make changes, so that in our actions we are in line with human rights and the Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1059	I thank you for your commitment to the debate. It's true, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark points out, that the 27 members have diverse backgrounds, and the conditions for taking human rights seriously are diverse. But the world in which we live reflects that human rights cannot be enforced only by good resolutions in the UN, not only by countries joining them. It is the implementation and enforcement that are demanding – in this field as in so many other fields. It is true, as many have pointed out, that it is still one-sided, and Israel and neighbouring countries are used as an example. There, the point might have been more balanced, so to speak. There are others who deserve criticism. But what's the alternative? I don't think the alternative is – as I thought Karin Woldseth asked questions about – to exclude those that we can characterize as stagings. Then they are outside, and it becomes more difficult to keep them responsible, among other things. through these land hearings. I don't think it helps us to pull out. Then at least the one-sidedness doesn't get any less. I think we have to admit – and I think Karin Woldseth, who I experience has a real commitment to these questions, agrees – that it is not possible to force other countries to implement human rights. We have to try to be in dialogue with them, we have to try to involve them, and we have to try to make it more embarrassing in the international community to have to facilitate the violation of fundamental human rights. I believe that this debate has shown that it is right to be involved in the Human Rights Council, that it gives us an arena, and that it gives us new opportunities to participate and push the world in the right direction in an area that is demanding, but important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1080	First, I would like to welcome the commitment, the critical questions and the wonder about this work. It's very important that it's like this in this room. I believe for my part that I hold fast to what I said during the interpellation debate that the representative of Høglund had in 2008, namely that despite the weaknesses, this is an opportunity for us to engage, show solidarity in practice, put others to the wall and even be put to the wall. I believe that the year and a half we have been sitting in this Council has shown that. I think it's about the way people who sit in this room experience it. You get engaged in change, you don't get an impact on everything, you get an impact on something. The alternative is not to sit there – to be on the outside and get more through then. I think it's an honest choice, and we should discuss it as one criterion to do something else. But I think the line we've chosen has been wise. A few comments: The representative Haugli made a very good contribution, I fully agree. Let me just underline that in the case of sexual minorities, this, as I understand it, was a discussion that took place in the Third Committee of the United Nations, not in the Human Rights Council. When the decision was taken in plenary at the general meeting, there was a massive lobbying that was carried out, among other things. by Norway and as usual. Sexual minorities were actually included in the decision. We participated, as I said, in order to get this done. We used our channels, including a number of embassies, to change the position of land on the tip. They did, and it was positive. Once again, it turns out that we can use different channels and play on them. In this respect, with blasphemy and violation of religion, this is a repetition which comes every year and which is always adopted against the voices of all Western countries. It has been the subject of the MR Commission and has been addressed both at the Council and at the General Assembly. It is that we agree with some of the paragraphs of the resolution, which, in isolation, may be in order, but we cannot accept the main purpose, namely the protection of religions as such against degrading mentions. Once again, the question is, are we best served to be able to point it from the inside or from the outside? So I have to say that some of the positive things about the experience we have in participation is the way we can engage civil society in Norway as well. At our own hearing, some of the things that almost made the strongest impression on me, the extensive preparation, the mobilisation of the voices of civil society in Norway, which expressed their views. And they've seen us very closely in the cards as well. I believe this – not to use too many words – is one of the things that countries like Egypt and Tunisia are missing: some of the warning lights and bells that the authorities from below see in the cards and place them in charge. Our participation in the Human Rights Council has activated and stimulated these environments. The participation when we are examined, as under a UPR, does it even more, and it stimulates wide debate in society, including in this room, and I think we should welcome that. But thank you to the interpellant for raising a very important and timely question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1098	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1114	On 31 March last year, the Council of the Western Union decided to terminate the modified Brussels Treaty of 1954. For this reason, the WEU will cease to exist on 30 June of this year. As a consequence, the VEU Parliamentary Assembly will be dissolved. Despite the fact that Norway is only a member of the WEU, we have had voting rights in the Committees of the WEU, but not in plenary. In any case, Norway will lose its influence in European defence policy. As a defence friend and parliamentarian, I find it difficult to accept that Norway's influence over European defence policy is being reduced by decisions in structures in which we have no influence. That the WEU is brought to an end will probably allow the world to live with, and Europe’s security will hardly be reduced by such a decision. NATO is much more relevant in this context, not least after France again chose to join the NATO command structure. In particular, involvement in one organisation, namely the VEU, is to depend on membership of another club, namely the EU. Furthermore, it is a bit alarming that this process takes place without the participation of all contributing nations and the design of the option. I do not think it appropriate to exclude from cooperation on European defence and security policies on the grounds that everything from trade, currency and interest rates must be agreed at the same time. A strange idea is that the EU assumes that it is a part of everything before it can contribute. That the WEU ceases to exist is a consequence of history – perhaps sensible and perhaps not to avoid – but, at the same time, the closure of the WEU results in European parliamentarians getting an arena less to discuss defence and security issues. It will be a smaller institution that can hold Europe's defence and foreign ministers responsible for developments. It's in many ways the opposition arena, and who's in position and opposition will of course vary. Furthermore, the VEU Parliamentary Assembly has been an arena where security challenges and foreign policy have been discussed with colleagues from other countries. Political ties have been established between like-minded colleagues through both committee work and social cooperation. The direct reason for the decision to close was the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon covered the defence policy clauses previously enshrined in the TEU. The organisation was thus made redundant. Since the meeting was known to be closed, there has been an active effort to find alternatives to today’s assembly, on the basis of the argument that intergovernmental control and follow-up of EU defence and security policies are needed. Further arguments have been made that the national parliaments have to stand for this control, because it is the national parliaments that approve the defence budgets, it is the ones that approve larger arms purchases, and they determine the participation of soldiers in international operations. All VEU countries have already debated the future of the VEU and possible alternative structures in their parliaments. This interpellance is therefore based on the ideas sown in other European parliaments. Furthermore, there has been a similar debate in the European Parliament. However, there is broad disapproval of increasing the influence of the European Parliament on the EU's foreign and security policy defined as an intergovernmental matter. The European Parliament has a supranational role. It is therefore fundamental acceptance and understanding that the WEU, in its present form, has played its role – not only because the tasks will be transferred, but also because the role intended by the VEU Parliamentary Assembly does not function properly. There is clearly strong opposition to the establishment of a further organisation in Europe aimed at working on defence and security policy. At the same time, there is a strong consensus that Europe needs a forum where parliamentarians can meet to discuss various defence and security policy issues – a forum that can be careful to follow up different decisions, to discuss the consequences of them openly, and to launch alternative solutions. The so-called inter-parliamentary scrutiny is important, but then any structure must function as intended. And that's exactly where we are today. So far, there is a common desire from the Member States to establish a conference or a meeting place to replace the current WEU. It should not be permanent. Furthermore, the VEU Member State agrees that all 27 EU countries should be natural participants. The size of delegations should depend on the size of the countries. A maximum of two committees should be set up and a rotating secretariat should be set up. With regard to the financing of any new structure, there are several who believe that this should be the responsibility of the parliaments of the various countries. As a NATO member, Norway will have observer status. In other words, we're losing influence. The above proposals for alternative structures are very little creative, and it is clear that many European politicians have difficulties thinking about new things. When development requires structural changes in Europe, it is not sensible to launch an alternative solution that in many ways copies what you have chosen to put down. Then the score goes away, and the problems are duplicated. The Committee on Parliamentary and Public Relations of the VEU Parliament has promoted a report that largely reflects the overall conclusions drawn in the national parliaments. However, the Committee places greater emphasis on the practical consequences of holding conferences with so many participating countries. But again, it is not the purpose of any conferences that are being discussed, but the practical implementation – an unknown issue for most other European institutions. The WEU Committee shall, however, be in favour of allowing it to address a problem which is quite obvious but which is clearly perceived as being critical, namely that parliaments, and since the various parties in the parliaments, often choose delegates who have little or no experience in defence or foreign policy. It will then be difficult to hold a meaningful debate, with the consequence that the debate in the VEU Parliament often takes place between relatively few and the same representatives. Furthermore, when sending delegates who are not responsible for defence and foreign policy in their respective parties, the impact of delegates in the parties is also relatively small. This interpellation intends to put a number of problems on the table. Where will the European debate on defence and security take place in the future? Do we need anything beyond NATO? How should this debate be organised, if any? Which countries should participate? Who will represent the parliaments? Who will finance any new structure? And not least: how is Norway going to find its place? These are issues that affect both parliaments and the governments of different countries – that is, both Parliament and the government. It is certain that if we do nothing, we will reduce the possibility of putting executive politicians in charge of the policy being pursued. I believe that the alternative solutions for the future organisation of European cooperation are a little visionary. At the same time as we experience a world moving in all areas, European politicians continue to discuss within frameworks that address only limited issues. Almost all European and international organisations focus on defence, foreign affairs, security or human rights – of course, central areas, but our structures are not dimensioned by the global changes taking place. Given that the world is shrinking, it is obvious that there are also other areas requiring interparliamentary cooperation, in other words, arenas where parliamentarians can discuss issues that have so far been reserved for national parliaments. A very clear area for such interparliamentary discussions will be fiscal issues. The financial crisis clearly showed that global financial commitments are strong, and it is a democratic deficit that parliamentarians were not given the opportunity to discuss different measures to get out of the crisis. Furthermore, the experience gained from the various measures taken by the countries should also be discussed in retrospect. Another area for which wider interparliamentary cooperation should be considered is energy. Last year’s discussions on supply and demand, energy supply and security, and alternative forms of energy, suggest that this should not be an area in which governments form a monopoly of opinion. A third area could be the exchange of experience with different measures regarding the integration of immigrants, where countries alone are struggling to find the best means, but have collectively found many good solutions. If it is decided to set up a new conference in Europe in the light of the closure of the WEU, this should, in my view, be a conference which could meet in different configurations, possibly on the basis of the model of the NATO Council. Furthermore, it should not be expected that all countries will meet at all different sessions, but that countries with interests in selected areas will prioritise precisely these sessions and, as a consequence, also be given greater responsibility for the agenda and agenda. Conferences in different areas will then be held in the light of national wishes and requests and not held because the calendar so requires. So there are a number of challenges I have to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which he has probably heard. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that alternative structures need to be looked at in Europe? And so I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister can take an initiative towards his colleagues in Europe in terms of structure, not only in terms of the abolition of the WEU, but also more generally in terms of discussing other issues. Often the answer is that you need to join the EU and everything will be solved. But it turns out that those who are members of the EU too are struggling, both with organisation and with the same issues. Therefore, once again, a call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs if we should not find our place in a different way than so far on defence and security policy issues, for example. not be unilaterally dependent on NATO, and also on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when he is out there representing Norway, can talk about Parliament's case, because we have no forum where we can speak our case. This interpellation is both to Parliament and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because there is no other place for us to go when we are talking about our own case, speaking for our own sick mother.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1160	Thanks to the inter-pellant who asks whether the government feels responsible for Norwegian parliamentarians continuing to participate in defence policy debates in Europe, and what the government intends to do on the basis that the ten members of the Western Union have decided to close the organisation, which also has implications for the Union's parliamentary body. There were also some other questions in the follow-up, and we might be able to address them in the debate. First, a clarification and then some history and background about the VEU, as the interpellant has also described. To clarify: it is up to parliamentarians here in Norway and all their colleagues abroad to organise, continue and emphasise their interparliamentary work and conduct foreign policy debates. In fact, a government should be careful to think so much about, whether it be a form of work, issues, priorities, new members, reorganisations or closures – and funding, to add it. My responsibility is to help make contacts good – for Norway’s part – between interparliamentary work and the government’s delegations. There we have a good contact in several fields. The Western Union has helped build the vision of a common defence in post-war Europe by promoting close consultations and cooperation on defence and security issues in Western Europe. During the Cold War, defence cooperation between the member states of the WEU was mainly ensured through cooperation in NATO, where all the permanent members of the WEU were members. The WEU thus gained a subordinate role in this period. From the fall of the wall and through the 1990s, the VEU was the subject of a drag between NATO and EU countries on the extent to which the organisation should have an influence over European defence and security policies. The Petersberg Declaration of 1992 launched guidelines on the VEU's intended tasks in the field of peacekeeping and peace-building operations. These guidelines were later incorporated into the 1997 EU Amsterdam Treaty. The VEU played its most important role in the last few years of the 1990s when the organisation participated in several crisis management operations in the Balkans. Close political and military cooperation between NATO and the WEU developed on the basis that the WEU was able to draw on NATO resources. As long as I have been Minister for Foreign Affairs, there has been no activity in the VEU at ministerial level. The last ministerial meeting took place in 2000. The decision to shut down the organisation – partly politically and partly financially, which I will come up with – was therefore no surprise. The resolution of the organisation appears to be a natural consequence of historical developments in Europe. I mainly share the arguments that have come from the permanent members about shutting down the organisation. Let me take the most important: The common defence clause – which means that if a member is subjected to a military attack, the other members will be rescued, including by military means – is not adapted to the current security architecture. It shall apply only to the members. Although its wording provides stronger security guarantees than Article V of NATO, the VEU is no longer credible as a common defence organisation, given that all members are members of both NATO and the EU. The emergence of the EU's security and defence policy and the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon with its solidarity clause have made the VEU superfluous in this way. Only ten of the 27 EU Member States are permanent members of the WEU. As a result, the parliamentary organisation lacks sufficient legitimacy to oversee and control EU security and defence policy. I also understand the economic argument put forward by the permanent Members. For example, the UK Government says that it can no longer defend annual obligatory contributions to the WEU of 2.3 million. The euro, which is by comparison almost twice what the British pay annually to cover the common costs of the EU anti-piracy operation outside Somalia, which we have discussed earlier today. Interpellant claims that everything suggests that many countries want to invest the activities of the WEU in the EU. Commenting on this, following the suspension of VEU military operations in 2001, most of the work became part of the EU’s common security and defence policy. Since the 1998 United Kingdom and France summit in St Malo, the EU has developed its own crisis management capability and has since 2003 carried out more than 20 military and civil crisis management operations, mainly in the Balkans, but also in Africa and Asia. I would therefore argue that the activities of the VEU have already been deployed under the EU. We saw this in 2004, at the latest, in 2004, when the VEU's Committee for Development and Cooperation on Defence Matters, WEAG and WEAO, were closed, and the work was incorporated into the EU through the establishment of the defence agency EDA. However, the permanent members of the WEU, in their declaration of 31 March 2010 on the closure of the WEU, favour the contribution made by the Parliamentary Assembly to the development of a European culture and understanding of security and defence. Since the EU's security and defence policy is intergovernmental, on which the representative was involved, even after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the permanent members call for continued interparliamentary dialogue on these issues, in order – as it is said – to maintain the competence and experience of the Parliamentary Assembly. The governments of most of the member countries of the VEU have stated that they are open to good ideas on how to promote discussions between national parliaments on the EU's security and defence policy, but they leave – of course, I would add – in all cases this idea of the respective parliaments. As far as I am aware, this spirit of ideas is well under way among those of the Member States' parliamentarians who want to continue the dialogue, and various proposals on how this work can be organised in the future, discussed and launched. The aim is to agree on a proposal within the WEU to be formally dropped in June. In this process, we must also be aware that a follow-up mechanism must be linked to the parliamentary follow-up to the common security and defence policy of the EU under the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. In any new format, the European Parliament is also likely to be included. Today, we can see a competitive relationship between the European Parliament and the national parliaments, where, under the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has increased its influence in the area of EU security and defence, inter alia through: regular consultations with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and through budgetary responsibilities. The permanent members of the VEU express the desire that the parliaments of candidate countries and other interested countries be included in the new cooperation. It thus appears that Norwegian parliamentarians who are interested in having a dialogue with their European counterparts continue to do so, but in a different form. Once again, the form should be defined by the parliamentarians. The Government welcomes the fact that the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the other members of the delegation to the VEU Parliamentary Assembly are exploring the possibilities for non-EU parliamentarians from Norway and other countries to participate in and find a suitable form of parliamentary cooperation. Of course, it is important for a country like Norway that parliamentarians engage in international security and defence policy issues, as we know from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the many regional bodies we have here in the north. Finally, I would like to point out that the Norwegian Government has close cooperation with the European Union in the area of security and defence policy. In addition to the three agreements we have concluded with the EU, the framework agreement on participation in military and civil crisis management operations and the agreement on the exchange of classified information, both from 2004, as well as the agreement on cooperation with the EU Defence Agency from 2006, we are working to establish a constructive dialogue with the EU's new High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and with the EU's new foreign service. Both the Minister of Defence and I are committed to good arrangements for the dialogue on security and defence issues with the EU, where our European allies are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1213	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, but I am not sure that any of us really became something particularly wiser. We are facing challenges that, of course, cannot be solved in this room. You can point to each other and say that the challenges have to be solved in Parliament, that you do not want to interfere, and that governments have to keep up their work, but that is not the way parliaments are organised. There is no forum where we can discuss that kind of agreement internally, neither the Norwegian Parliament nor the other parliaments. Actually, the government of the various countries is alone with all its power. You can, of course, point to the parliaments and say that they must organise themselves. It is safe according to regulations, regulations and laws, but the fact is that no one is allowed to participate, not to contribute and not to be organized effectively. Maybe that's the price you have to pay. With regard to the problem in a broader context, the Foreign Minister said that there will be other opportunities to discuss it, possibly later in the debate. It may be that more attention can be focused on this: if a conference is to be held in Europe, based on the WEU, as proposed, with 27 EU countries and a number of observer countries, the world has gone further since 1954. The world has become more global, there have been other areas – I would say – that have almost more influence on world development, global development than foreign policy and defence policy, not least defence policy. We have had conditions like the financial crisis, as the whole financial structure around the world was breaking up. Then we were in a situation where the government could have talks with governments in other countries, in cooperation countries – and that was good – while we parliamentarians sat down without any kind of forum where we could discuss solutions. We happened to have contact with parliamentarians around, who had different measures to get out of the financial crisis. Some selected tax reliefs, some chosen more direct solutions – industry assistance, etc. – to get the blood flow in the economy going. Such contact is interesting and useful, I think, also in that area. As I mentioned, not least energy forms are now absolutely an international product, and there are many different solutions. Parliaments sit separately and discuss – reasonably alone. There is Norway a superpower, so it would be useful if you had a forum that could alternately form different configurations and where you could discuss issues. Integration is another thing, and you can probably find many other areas where countries are totally dependent on each other. We can learn from each other’s solutions – good and bad experiences. It is a policy bias when this can only be done at government level, while we parliamentarians do not have the opportunity to discuss that kind of issue because the government says that this must be dealt with by you yourself. It's actually not exactly the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1226	After this article, I became somewhat uncertain about what the representative Tybring-Gjedde is looking for. What he's really saying is that the world has a lot of issues that matter to each country – financial crisis, unemployment, integration, social issues at large, which are influenced by globalisation. To that end, parliamentarians need an assembly to discuss, if I understood correctly. I get that. And then you could say, "What's your hand?" We have the UN and we have regional bodies in which parliamentarians are present. I find it difficult to see that the body of the VEU should be the body that meets those objectives. I think a lot of what the representative says is moving towards a view I personally share, namely the EU. It is not as easy as he said in his opening post, to point out that it keeps becoming a member of the EU. It doesn't solve anything for a country that doesn't plan to do it with the first. But there has been a search for cooperation – government cooperation, parliamentary cooperation and close cooperation between national Parliaments. I think it is an interesting discussion to find out how to get a better organized world, also in view of stronger parliamentary cooperation. But on the government side, I think we should be wise to listen to how this house might articulate such an idea, and gather on a proposal. And then one could possibly look at how Norway could be a driving force for such a proposal in terms of cooperation between government and parliament, such as in a number of other areas, such as the environment. Nordic policy, Arctic policy, where we have a kind of common perception of what we want to care for interests. But I think, as I said, that this is where the ball must be in Parliament, and then we will hear whether it is a common vision that we can possibly support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1237	As both Mr Tybring-Gjedde and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have pointed out, the VEU and the VEU Parliamentary Assembly will cease to exist from 30 June this year as a result of the VEU Council's decision of 31 March 2010 to denounce the so-called modified Brussels Treaty of 1954. Since it was known that the assembly was to be closed, it has been actively working to find an alternative to today’s assembly based on the argument that intergovernmental control and follow-up of EU defence and security policies are needed. Other arguments have been – as Mr Tybring-Gjedde also pointed out – that the national parliaments have to control all the time it is the national parliaments that adopt the defence budget, decide on the purchase of defence equipment, and decide whether the solar data should be used in operations. A working group has been set up in the Assembly with a mandate to propose alternative solutions to replace the current Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal will, as soon as it is clear, be recorded in the European Parliament and the European Parliament, which will take a final decision on the creation of a new body. There's still a lot of uncertainty about whether there's going to be a new structure at all. If so, will the associated Member States be offered to participate, and if so at what price? As an associated member so far, we have been free passengers, but we may not be able to count on that. Depending on which images are formed, we should from the Norwegian side assess how we should behave. By virtue of our position as a member of the VEU and a non-member of the EU, we have no formal ability to influence the outcome of the process. The signals we have received indicate, however, that there is a willingness to include non-members such as Norway in a future organization. I have also noticed in discussions in the WEU that it has been used as an argument that in the WEU there is a whole Europe, and that they also want it in a future organisation. That is why I think it is important that we start thinking about Norway and Stortinget's position in the future, not least in the light of our strong participation in EU-led crisis management operations. It is important that we from Norway keep an eye on further developments, coordinate us well and exploit the various contact networks that we have, with a view to preserving our future interests as well as possible. WEU has been an arena to deliver political messages. I am referring to the north, and I am referring to Thorbjørn Jagland's candidacy to the European Parliament. It has given us good opportunities to put Norwegian interests on the agenda for a wider European Parliamentary audience. Furthermore, what the arena gave good opportunities for the members of the Norwegian delegation to as well as to empowerment and awareness-raising, as well as to contact creation and networking. I think that where Norway has the opportunity to be in Europe, we should stand still, to gain influence, to establish contacts and to exchange information. A new EU-led format will be an important listener to gain insight into European security policy thinking. It will be an arena for European contacts and networks, and there will be opportunities for national representatives to gain firsthand knowledge on issues that are also debated at national level. But I have also noticed that the national parliamentarians we meet in the WEU do not really want the EU to be allowed to take over this role. They want them to have the role of parliamentarians themselves, and they see it as a threat to an EU model in the new body, if any. The last session shall be in Brussels in May 2011. The delegation will continue to follow the work of the assembly until that time, so that we can follow the processes ahead and the role of Norway in a possible future body, with a view to a possible recommendation to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1260	I just have to honestly admit that I have lighted up with lights to try to give the interpellant some kind of sensible answer and a request for what we should do, but I think there is no other answer than that we should have hands on the wheel and participate in the various forums that make decisions in Europe, we must become members of the European Union. The interpellant takes up a timely theme, because we are losing a new arena where we can have parliamentary contact with our European friends. It has long been clear that the Western Union was going to be closed down, and it is quite natural that the organisation should be shut down as a result of the developments we have had in Europe for the last 20 to 30 years. The Union has grown ever more — Central Europe and Eastern Europe are involved, and concepts such as security and defence policy have been given a completely different sound than before — and it is going to become even more important. The European Parliament is becoming more and more important, and unfortunately we are also on the outside on issues that are so important to us. I agree with what is being underlined in the importance of having parliamentary contact, for many good reasons, to develop networks, to address matters that are naturally in our interest. The interpellant itself has underlined the concept of energy. It is quite clear that, on the part of Norway, we need to take advantage of all the opportunities we have to address issues that are crucial to stabilising domestic and local development, whether it is a matter of security policy, the exercise of authority in the gigantic areas that Norway manages, Russia issues, not least climate issues, north-eastern policies, etc., which are completely natural aspects of what we are doing in our parliamentary contact. I guess we still have observer status with regard to COFAC. It is not primarily the defence and security policy of the committee leaders in the various foreign committees who are discussing it. In COSAC, where the European Committees of the respective countries are discussing foreign and security policy issues, we do not yet have observer status. We see the importance of participating in the NATO Parliamentary Committee, the OSCE, etc. However, I believe that all these relevant questions should be put first and foremost to our own Parliament – to the presidency. It is primarily the presidency's table, in my opinion, to ensure that we have a parliamentary contact that has become more and more important to Norway, at a time when we are becoming more and more politically marginalised and on the outside. So in this area, I think the Foreign Minister is quite right when he misses a precise instruction on where to go. I believe that without the Storting itself having taken action, it is not certain that it would have been as quick to get our local representation in Brussels that, on behalf of the Storing, can follow the day-to-day development of policies taking place in Europe. However, it is quite clear that it is important that Norway should ensure its intervention with the new institutions where Europe’s defence and security policy is being discussed. It is, as I said at the outset, primarily today in the European Parliament. Then, at the end of the day, it's not meant to seem arrogant, but in the way of participation and being ‘hands on’ on these issues, I think it's important that the various political parties take a stand on the European issue – for or not for a Norwegian membership that opens all doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1273	It is strange that it is not possible to start a debate without different representatives hiding behind the EU ghost. I do not believe that parliamentarians in the other European countries will join neither the views of the Foreign Minister nor the representative of Kristiansen on the European Union. This is not always the case when the organisation, the bureaucracy and these joint solutions are being developed by the EU. What I want, and as I have said all along, is a forum for parliamentarians to discuss alternative solutions to what the government is doing. ‘Inter-parliamentary scrutiny’ is what I am asking for. That's what you're trying to find in the VEU. So I added that maybe in order to create such an inter-parliamentary scrutiny, you could get it in other areas too, the council of NATO. That's what was the idea behind it. It wasn't an EU debate I made up to. I simply believe that very many people are so sceptical about the European Union that I do not believe that the European Union will necessarily be the solution to Europe's challenges in the future. What's the truth, and that's where the government comes in, and the Foreign Minister comes in, is that Norway goes from being an associated member of the WEU with voting rights in the committees to probably get, and maybe not, observer status in the new conference – with zero influence. This applies to both executives and parliamentarians and all of them. That's what they say you've been doing for years. Yeah, it's possible you've known it all year, but that's when the change happens. Then I wonder if the Foreign Minister is willing to take some initiative, so that he will safeguard our influence in the light of the contributions we make, and the financial strength we have, and the military we have, so that it is relevant. It is not relevant that nations which do not contribute at all, which do not bet on defence, or which do not have material or are involved in international operations at all, should have influence only because they are members of another organisation. It's not a natural way to think about, although that's the way everybody thinks about it. I understand that's the politically correct way to think about it. I believe that when we are not a member of the European Union, we have to take the situation that we are not a member of the European Union, and not think that we had been a member of the European Union. Now we're not a member of the EU, and then we have to take the consequences. That is why my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: does he take the ball, or only points to the presidency that is probably the most formally correct, but will he also take the ball, so that he ensures that Norway's interest is safeguarded also in the new structure that comes once?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1282	I am, with respect to reporting, a little uncertain about which ball it is the representative Tybring-Gjedde plays to me, and I think I really have to join much of what the representative Kristiansen said in his statement that here Parliament has to discuss a vision, and then you can have a dialogue between government and parliament. Here, too, the representative Tybring-Gjedde from one party – a significant party in the Stortinget – expresses great frustration that parliamentarians do not have a forum where they can discuss what the government is doing. Then he's frustrated that the foreign minister doesn't take the ball and go with it. I'm a little unsure which ball it is he's focusing on me in this context. We're going to shut down the VEU. I think most people see that it's a natural development. There is a variety of parliamentary bodies that are discussing today. Norway is in part and not in others. There are political choices and clarifications that this Assembly must make and that Norway must take. It's choices we've made, and that's choices we haven't made. But I think I have to limit myself to saying that Norway is actively participating in the debate on international governance, the discussion on G20, UN reform, cooperation in Europe – all the places we are in. Of course, if ideas, new ideas, bodies or connections for Norway come out of discussions in the Storting, which brings together a majority, pointing in one direction, the government will take the signals that we make in all other policy areas, and seek to help implement it. But it's a little unclear to me what the representative is really asking for, and what it's going to look like. But if it gets clearer, it shouldn't be on the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1289	The debate on substance is closed. Seven is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1303	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1312	The State of Norway is established in the territory of two people: Samer and Nordmann. Both peoples have the same right and the same right to be able to develop their culture and language. Samemen is an indigenous people who have a call for special cultural protection under international law. The merger is therefore also established by the law of union in order to comply with the Constitution § 110a. This gives the whole thing a unique position as a popularly elected body with great freedom. The Committee has had good cooperation, and I am pleased to see that there is so much consensus in this country on the view of Sami issues. An overall committee, i.e. all lots, with the exception of the Party of Advancement, shall agree on the observations in this case. The party of progress has its own comments, and I am absolutely sure they will explain the content of them. The 2009 Joint Annual Report sets out the work of the Sameting, the tasks of the Sameting and economic and administrative challenges. The message covers a wide range of areas where the Sameting works. There is everything from discrimination and equality, co-operation across borders, regional policy issues, land and environment policy issues, through culture, cultural memory protection and languages to kindergartens, schools and traditional knowledge assurance. It is not possible in a brief article to address everything that concerns the Sami communities. I have to draw up something, and it is not that what is not mentioned is not considered important. The majority of the Committee has noted that the government has followed up the comments of the consideration of the 2008 Annual Report on the clearance of budgetary procedures applicable between the Government and the Sameting. There is an understanding that, like municipalities, the Sameting needs a certain predictability in the budget framework from year to year. The same applies to the need to clarify the framework for next year's activities so early that it is possible to make sound budgeting for the coming year. These needs can be understood independently of the formal position of the Sameting. At the same time, there is reason to recall that there are several formal aspects of the budgetary processes to be taken care of and that ultimately the Stortinge is adopting the State budget. I hope the Sameting will contribute to constructive conversations and participate in dialogue on finding a solution, even if you may not be able to fulfill all of your primary desires. When the Municipal and Administrative Committee visited the Sameting on its committee tour in the interior of Finland last year, we learned that the Sameting had no simultaneous interpretation of its negotiations to Lules and Sámi, only to northern Sami. Language is one of the most important factors, if not the most important, ensuring a culture. The Sami languages – especially lule and southern Sami – are threatened in the sense that there are only a hundred people speaking the language. In this way, the symbol value of the use of the Sameeting can not be overestimated. The majority therefore ask the Sametinge to consider a plan for a simultaneous interpretation. Unfortunately, we are not finished with the contradictions, prejudices and conflicts between the Sami and the Nordics, even though we have come a long way in this country. When the Municipality of Bodø recently issued a sign with the Sami name ‘Bådåddjo’ at the time of entering the city, the public space debate took such a form that Avisa Nordland had to close the online debate forum. In Tromsø, a local politician has been killed after ordering the municipality to enter the administrative area of the Sami language. In my opinion, then, it is a heavy responsibility for us as politicians and ombudsmen, whether we are local politicians, or whether we are on the Stortinget. It is permissible to disagree on the matter, but we must be clear that it is totally unacceptable to attack persons, prejudices, armed forces and killing threats such as debate. We're going to be ombudsmen for all the inhabitants of the country, whether you're the same or the Norse, or, for that matter, a foreigner who's legally staying here. We're going to think about how we deal with this, and how we put our words into these issues that arouse such strong reactions. We're going to contribute to alleviating and resolving conflicts, not to gnaw under them and increase conflicts between people. With this I have on behalf of the majority the pleasure of recommending the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1333	Then we are back with the annual debate on the common policy, which is often suspended when we deal with the annual report to the Sameting. Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the previous speaker that one cannot accept that the climate of debate around the conflict in terms of Sami interests and the rest of the population becomes unacceptable threats and calls for violence, that kind of thing. We must be clear and clear about this in this room – and also outside this room – that we do not accept. But when that's said, I also think there's an indication -- that we're experiencing that kind of threat -- and illustrate a little bit of the commitment many in North Norway have around these questions. I don't want to apologize in any way – I stress – for that kind of outcome, but it shows that here's the strong feeling in turn. It is precisely because something fundamental is about to be rocked when you go as far as you have done, thanks to a misguided policy from this room, where you have put up for discrimination between people based on ethnicity. That's the situation in North Norway, that's the situation as it's perceived in the Nordic population. Let's take the example of Bodø and Tromsø and the debate that is now raging about the inclusion of these cities in the Sami language management area. Obviously, languages are about identity, languages are most close, and when you feel that a disappearing small minority is going to overrun a majority population, as many in Tromsø and Bodø actually perceive it, you put strong feelings into it. Unfortunately, and for some strange reason, Norway has never done the work you should do on language, namely to get an overview of how people actually talk in this country. That overview does not exist. If you ask the Central Statistical Office, they will reject it, because you don't have a data base to run that kind of statistics. But if you make any assumptions here and look at Tromsø and assume who's in the number of electors of the Sameting, it's less than 1,000 people in this town. We know that a minority of those who are in the same number understand Sami, and that a small minority of them can read and write Sami again. So we're talking about the population of Tromsø, who will understand these signs -- pro-miles. So it's up to municipal administration, municipal services and municipal services, not according to a need. That is the question you should have asked: do we need special language Sami adaptation in these municipalities? You haven't. In Finland, it would have been done. One would ask: Do we have a need? There are rules in Finland that say if 8 pst. the population is minority-speaking, it is in particular facilitated. But you never asked that question here. What is done, on the other hand, is that well-meaning politicians are so open and inclusive to a disappearing small minority that the process excludes the majority population. That's what we're experiencing, and that's why we have this kind of debate. Unfortunately, then, the formulation of this policy, namely the establishment of the Sameting, the ethnic rules – the last country I have heard practice them is South Africa – has provided the basis for the choice of the Samet, the right to vote for the Sameting, the establishment of the Finnish Law, the Sami administration – a whole set of policies – have helped to create conflicts in the north. But this has been carried out by politicians south, as I will claim, and asserted with strength, not having an understanding of the situation in North Norway. So my message here, and that's also shown by the comments of the Progress Party, is that we don't accept the developments we've seen. That is why we believe that common policies must be reversed: ethnic equality for all in this Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1346	First of all, the annual report of the Assembly: it has been well presented by the Committee's rapporteur, and the right is in line with the comments that exist there. I want to make a comment. We had a hearing on the matter, and it was quite clear that it advised a rather strong – I kept saying – disagreement between the Council of Consensus, which was represented by a Labour Party representative at the hearing, and the Labour Party's fraction in the United Kingdom on the budgetary procedures for the Sameting. It was almost a consultation, not a hearing, for there was a discussion back and forth over the table. This has later come to the conclusion that several from Sametinget have said that they feel that the government does not take them seriously in the consultation process regarding the Sameting budget. Erna Solberg opened consultations in advance. I could imagine that the minister would touch on this afterwards when we are given the opportunity to change the lines, and that she might also include it in her post. It is possible to clear up that kind of misunderstanding and disagreement if one follows a process in which the Sameting is included in consultations prior to the presentation of the budget. Today it seems more like a dictatorship from the government, I understand. Then it's a little difficult for us sitting outside, to get into this. But it seems like this is a problem issue for which there is great interest. It affected the temperament of the hearing as if this were a matter of concern to representatives of the municipal committee, and it may be a good idea to clean it up. So to other things that concern the Sami: I kept saying that it's not strange it's going to be war in the world, when you see how the debate on the road sign in Bodø and the debate in Tromsø has now taken off. What it might be worth noting is that it is not a small minority or a small outcast who obliges Bodø or Tromsø to take that kind of decision. I assume that this is anchored in local political forums, where the large majority have been elected to the municipal or urban councils. I hope, at least, that it will be possible to hold the debate at the level it belongs to, namely in elected bodies and not with a gun, shooting on signs, tagging, etc. Something else has happened that is also very exciting, and that State Council Aasrud might be able to touch in his post. It is that there has been a first consultation meeting at Røros on the Southern Sami rights, i.e. the follow-up to the position of the Joint Committee, where seven counties south of Finnmark will now be affected. There I think that the whole thing has gone on a very wise line, namely that you have to map the rights first before you take another grip. The Finnland Act is the opposite. There we first passed the law, and then one had to identify and map rights. Righteousness is something you have, it's not something you find, or something that's taken out of the air. That's why it's getting a survey – and it can take a long time – of the rights in the southern Sami areas very correctly, I think, and to do it only before any political action is taken, as we did with the Finnland Act. There was another situation in Finnmark. We know that this is still a difficult matter, but there is now the process that one should map rights. Then one will figure out how intrusive this will be. But in the case of the Southern Sami, which does not cover areas that are state-owned, as in Finnmark, it is very right to start with a screening of rights before going on with other political processes. There I understand that the government has already had a first consultation with the Sameting and is therefore acting in accordance with the decisions taken when we dealt with the Finnmarks Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1357	We have an indigenous people in Norway, together. Same ones come from what is now known as four countries — Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. And Norway is the country that has ratified ILO Convention No. 169, confirming the right of indigenous peoples to preserve and further develop their own culture, and the obligation of authorities to take measures to support this work. The Christian People's Party will be involved in securing the rights of all together to their own language, culture and social life as enshrined in international conventions. It must be built up under the diversity of the Sami community. Common policies require follow-up at municipal, county and national level. The merger is a democratically elected body for the Sami population and must therefore be the government's leading pre-missive provider on Sami issues. The specific nature of the joint must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. Many challenges lie at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in Sami settlement areas. Here, the central authorities have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture. Assimilation policy, which was pursued from the 1800s onwards, was very damaging to the Sami language and its reputation. Language is a very important part of culture. It is therefore important that the Sami language be preserved and continued. Sami is also not only Sami — there are a total of ten main dialects or languages in this group, and a number of sub-dialects. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that an action plan for Sami languages was presented in 2009, with a five-year working period, the overall objective of which is to facilitate a secure future for the Sami languages in Norway, to obtain more Sami language users, and to provide equivalent development opportunities for the three Sami languages in northern Sami, lulesamian and southern Sami. In order to preserve the Sami culture, it is absolutely essential to use the Sami language. Then, as the rapporteur also stated, there are some challenges to interpreting, especially for lulesamian and southern Sami. The majority of the Committee has called on the Assets Committee to consider a timely plan for a simultaneous interpretation of the negotiations of the Assets in these three Sami languages. It will be an important contribution to providing both lulesamic and southern Sami with a new arena where the language can be used. Otherwise, I must also stress the importance of what the rapporteur pointed out regarding the climate of debate around the lines of conflict. We must expect disagreements and conflicts, whether new or old and familiar, to be dealt with in an adult, tidy and democratic way. Of course, the Christian People's Party supports the attitude in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1374	We are now discussing and have a round around the annual report that Sametinget dealt with a year ago. Co-policy and policy towards the Sami population are, of course, a much, much broader field than what is discussed in the joint statement. This is a broad policy in many areas. It's about how the living together is. We've had studies in the past that have established that the living conditions of the Sami population are worse than many others. There are broad policy areas that lie beyond this and that go directly into the everyday life of the Sami population, such as reindeer management policy. But these things are essentially not being dealt with here today. That's the annual report right there, as it does. It is a predictable position that has come from the Committee, in the sense that the large majority join and take note of the points that Sameeting itself makes and which they themselves discuss. The entire committee had the pleasure of being present just at the time when Sametinget dealt with its own annual report last year – the one we are now dealing with here. The predictable thing in this is that the Progress Party chooses to stand on the page. I have met the Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party in earlier debates on human rights, and they don't think he applies to everyone. But let me say this: the basic law that applies to Norway, and which the Stortinget has adopted, I hope the Progress Party chooses to deal with. It says what the majority so eloquently says in its introduction, ‘that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann’. So that's what the Constitution says. The Basic Law has the fundamental rights that come together. When one sees what the Progress Party says, that ‘every Norwegian citizen has the same fundamental democratic, political and civil rights and freedoms’, that is precisely what it is about in this matter. One of these questions concerns the right to speak in one's own language, the right and the ability to engage in language learning and the ability to engage in the practice of one's own culture. Then I raise the simple question to the Progress Party: Does the Progress Party acknowledge what the Constitution says, namely that the Sami and the Nordics have the same rights to engage in the development of their own culture and language? If you do that, then I wonder how in the world the Progress Party might think that putting Sami names in Norwegian cities is overruning some parts of the population. The Nordics have always called Tromsø for Tromsø, and the Nordics have always called Bodø for Bodø. If you have a Sami name, there are no Norwegians who speak Norwegian, who have no basis for feeling overwhelmed in any way. Then there are still some who protest. I would like to ask the Progress Party not to negate under that dissatisfaction, but rather to defend what is the intention of the Basic Law, namely that the Sami should be equal to the Norwegian language. I am concerned about the development that is taking place across Europe. Several heads of state in Europe, both in France and Germany and David Cameron in the United Kingdom, have recently been out saying that the diverse society is something they have lost faith in. I'm very concerned about that development, and I'm very glad that right here in Norway has not had the same device and is talking the same way. Because at the moment we're starting to say that we're not going to have a diverse society, but a society in which to align itself with the majority's view, language and cultural identity, I'm worried. It was just a kind of policy that led to the assimilation policy that was followed earlier, which meant that it was forbidden for Samers to speak Sami at school, and which made very many Samers ashamed that they were like each other, and did not tell the kids and somehow refused to be that. We can't have it like that. I believe that the turn of policy in the direction that we have had in recent years, where a person just recognizes minorities and indigenous peoples, as being united, and their rights to language and culture, is extremely important to ensure a policy that is inclusive, and provides the basis for a good, diverse society. It's a society I want to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1385	The treatment of this annual report shows that there is still a broad consensus in the view of the Sami issues. A broad majority of the Committee, i.e. all lots, with the exception of the Party of Advancement, shall stand together on the vote and on the majority of the observations. I would like to comment on some of the questions raised in the vote that have been raised so far in the debate. The majority of the Committee and the Right Trond of Greece have commented on budgetary procedures, and it has been noted that no agreement has been reached on new budgetary procedures between the Government and the Sameting, and that the Sameting vis-à-vis the Ministry has indicated the need for more time to assess the present draft and, where appropriate, propose alternative budgetary models. The majority point to the need for clarification of budgetary procedures between the Government and the Sameting. I can inform you that the department is still in dialogue with the Sameting on the issue. The matter was last addressed by the Sametinget at the six-monthly political meeting between the Co-operation Council and me on 14 December 2010. The summary is of the opinion that neither the current budgetary procedures nor the outline of new budgetary procedures submitted by the Ministry to the Sametinget are satisfactory. In this dialogue, I have pointed out that it is important to look at how the existing budgetary procedures can be improved. These include: agreement that the Sametinget and my Ministry are looking into how the Professional Analysis Group for Sami Statistics can be used to ensure that budgetary work is based on the best possible factual basis. I have also pointed out that there is a practice that the political leadership of the Sameting has met with the Minister of Finance in advance of the government's annual budgetary conferences in March, in addition to the regular contacts with the various departments and specialist councils. It was also established that it is not appropriate for the government to establish a system of negotiations with the Sametinget on budgetary matters. It was found from this that there is no consensus between the Federation and the Government on how further work is to be undertaken on budgetary procedures for Sami matters. At the same time, I asked the Sameting to look into the possibility of discussing the matter on the basis of the outline of budgetary procedures previously submitted. Living Sami languages are central to the maintenance of Sami culture. If we lose the Sami languages, we lose an important part of our cultural heritage. The Sami languages are currently in a vulnerable position. This is particularly the case in areas outside the Sami language management area and in the Southern Sami and Lulesamian regions. It is therefore important for the government to facilitate the future use and interaction of the Sami languages. Against this background, in 2009 the government promoted an action plan for Sami languages. The action plan is drawn up in dialogue with the Sameting. During the action plan period, the government will provide the basis for a stronger effort for the Sami languages in different areas of society — in particular in the fields of training, education, public service and care, and the use and visibility of Sami languages in public context. A prerequisite for a safe future for the Sami languages is to promote the status of languages and to make established linguistic rights visible to users and authorities at different levels. The action plan has a working time of five years. Annual reporting will be made on the implementation of targets and actions in the Action Plan. The first status plan was presented on 10 February of this year and shows that, in cooperation with the Sameting, the government is making significant efforts for the Sami languages. The merger is the government’s leading dialogue partner in the field of co-political issues, and its views are given priority. I think we have a constructive cooperation with Sametinget, and I hope that we will also have that in 2011. So the Progress Party and Per-Willy Amundsen have taken up the relationship to signage. I would like to say that there are no signs that come up neither in Tromsø nor in Bodø without there being thorough local processes, investigations, hearings and decisions in the city councils concerned. Therefore, I do not understand the criticism that there are a few people who force through such a solution. So it's local processes that are crucial for the decisions that are taken. Then we've started work with the Joint Court Committee II. We've had our first meetings with the Sameting, and we're going into some demanding rounds. Because, as the representative of Greece said, there are seven county municipalities, there are between 100 and 200 individual municipalities, and finding a good process is demanding. So I agree that it will be natural, I think, to start with the rights that we're going to look at, but probably we need some law to get on with that work, and then we get to start with the organs gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1418	I would like to challenge the Council of States to think about the situation we are experiencing north now, in the Nordic states, with a clearer and stronger level of conflict in relation to Sami issues, debates that even get results that we are not to accept, and that we are to hit hard. However, there is an indication of something much greater, that the Progress Party has warned against for many, many years, that when a minority is granted special rights at the expense of the rest of the population, yes, there is a recipe for conflict. And that's what we're seeing now: the Sameting, the Finnish Law, and now in terms of language and language usage and the Sami administration area of language. Can the Council of State think about this? Is there perhaps a connection here with having gone too far in the same policy area at the expense of the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1425	I agree with the representative Amundsen that this is a worrying situation we see in Finnmark. There's a lot of misunderstanding, and there's a lot of misunderstanding about what rights sams have. I think we all have a responsibility to help get out the right information. The merger is established and is an instrument for us to comply with the Constitution's obligations and the international conventions to which we have acceded, among others. United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the ILO Convention. I think it's important now that we take responsibility for disseminating information about what Sametinget is working on, and what rights Finnmark's people have under the Finnish Law. And then I'm very clear that if you're going to have a good development in the Sami areas and take care of the Sami that the indigenous people represent, you have to put a decisive emphasis on having good language skills in the Sami areas and among those who speak Sami.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1435	We are connected to ILO Convention No. 169, which is much of the foundation of the common policy pursued today. Norway is the only country among the cohabiting countries which are members of this Convention and which are also involved in providing guidance for the definition of Sami as so-called indigenous people. The ILO Convention may be terminated. It can be cancelled every ten years. And based on the questions I've asked the Council of State for this field before, we can cancel ILO Convention No. 169 this year, but then we have to do it by 5 September. My question to the Council of State is: what process is it necessary to have, and how early is it necessary to make such a proposal in the Grand Duchy if Norway, given that we have a majority here, is to be able to withdraw from ILO Convention No. 169?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1444	I do not have the notice of resignation for when the ILO Convention has to be terminated; it is possible to return to the representative Amundsen. But at least the government has no plans to file any case for the Storting to cancel the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1449	There are many countries in the world that have not signed the ILO Convention, but nevertheless through the judiciary have granted their indigenous people quite considerable rights. One of those countries is Canada, where the Supreme Court has been a leading force in terms of rights thinking. When the Council of State says that a demanding process is under way, namely the follow-up to the Joint Court Committee II, the question becomes – I also see that there may be a need for legislation, and I expect that the Council of State will come back to: How does the state now inform local authorities and the population of these areas about the forthcoming process? Is there something you keep a little calm and quiet, or is there an active information that the Council of State wanted for Finnmark? There has been a lot of information work, but it is clear that not everything has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1456	We started working on Røros this Monday last week, so we haven't gotten very far in that process. But I fully agree with the representative of Greece in what I see is the intention of the post, that it is important that we get good information in place, that we have good processes on it, that we take enough time to hear the people and run processes. That is why I am concerned that we should have a good cooperation with the Sametinget and the relevant local authorities to find solutions that are good. So it's hard to start informing before we've decided what to do. But we're starting work now, and we see that some law is necessary before we start monitoring. That work starts with the Ministry of Justice. Then we have to work on finding good anchoring processes and good information arrangements that include both the seven county municipalities and all the municipalities that are in the area. People are also important actors in the work to achieve good dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1465	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1470	Language is culture, and culture is language. For a small cultural group such as the Sami, two factors are particularly important to strengthen the Sami culture: the Sami languages, both the role of North, South and Lulesamian reindeer management as cultural carriers; Purification is not under the Sameting, so I do not want to touch it in this context, even though it is a very important cultural carrier. On the other hand, language strengthening lies within the area of the Sameting and may be the most important area to focus on in order to develop the Sami community in several fields. Having many language carriers, that is, people who use the Sami languages, is essential for a language and for developing the languages further. We know that both southern Sami and lulesamic languages are threatened, not least because there are few users and little in use. Northern Sami is in a somewhat better situation, but also here the language needs to be strengthened. The language(s) to be developed must be used. It must be used in school and education, in radio and television, in theatre and in singing, and not least in everyday conversations between people. The government has highlighted everyday challenges for the Sami communities in order to achieve the objectives of language strengthening. There are currently major debates on the signage of Sami town names in North Norway, most recently in Bodø, that several have been involved. In Finnmark we have had Sami nameplates in many municipalities for many years. It is possible that there has been a lot of debate related to this earlier, but as of today I cannot register a debate related to different municipality names in Finnmark. Porsanger municipality even has signage in three languages, Norwegian, Finnish/female and Sami, and representatives of Porsanger proudly say that it is the only trilingual municipality in Norway. The Progress Party asks whether we need special linguistic strengthening towards a ‘disappearing small minority’. The answer is yes. And if we don't bet on the language, it'll be a missing minority. It does not want the Workers' Party. Language policy is important, and geographical names are an important part of the language and identity. As a finnmarking, I wish the Sameting to be happy with its important work for the Sami languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1494	Although I represent the largest co-municipality in the country, I was not initially going to sign up for the debate. However, the representative of Greece spent some time at the hearing held by the Municipal and Administrative Committee on 10 November, suggesting, among other things, that: that the Working Party on the Storting disagrees with the Working Party on the Sameting on the budgetary process. However, the dialogue between the State and the Federation and the budgetary process was not the subject of the consultation and the questions asked. What was the theme was what had been the development of the Sameting economy, and what responsibility the Sameting has for the priorities that take place within its economic framework. And to be quite clear what was said then: the assets of the whole thing for cultural purposes have more than doubled since 2005, from 32 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 68 million. kr in 2011. When we were confronted at the hearing with the fact that Beaivvàš Sámi theatres have to be closed due to state framework transfers, it was necessary for us to point out that the way in which the Sameting operates within the framework is its own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1499	I got some challenges from the representative Heikki Holmås of the Socialist Left Party, who went directly on whether the Progress Party recognises the Basic Law's protection for Sami culture and language. If you really should be in doubt about something like that, then the answer is yes, the Progress Party is very clear that we support it. However, recognising and wanting to facilitate the provision of Sami language, culture and identity does not require the conduct of today's policies. I see the Constitution as a guarantee against assimilation, against the research process, and the Progress Party is in full line: we do not want that either. We're going to make it right, but that doesn't mean we're going to add up to what's really a override, and I'm going to say that the rest of the population is deprived of rights because you give them joint special rights. That's two very different things. Then the representative Holmås refers to Cameron's settlement with the multicultural ideology, if you like. Well, it's not just Cameron who's done it. It also has Sarkozy in France and Angela Merkel in Germany. One has realized what SV has not realized, namely that it should not be free and that all cultures are equalised and integration goes to if only – I kept saying – worshiping free diversity. You have to have a leadership culture in a society. This has not least shown us the need for integration policy. We need to have some leads in terms of language. But then I'm going to shoot in that it's very important not to be like the same ethnic group as the other ethnic groups that have come to Norway over the last ten years through immigration. Samer belongs to the national minorities and is thus in a special position, together with other national minorities, such as Jews and others. When you try to draw that comparison, you're on an unfortunate path, in the eyes of the Progress Party. In fact, Somalis who live in Norway are treated in the same way as cohabitants, for example. At least the Party of Advancement will not turn itself into a spokesman for it. We believe that the organisation of Sami language and Sami culture is something quite different from the new minorities that have gradually come to Norway in the last ten years. But Cameron, Sarkozy and Angela Merkel note what everyone else sees outside SV, namely that the multicultural ideology is dead, and should be buried as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1510	First to Håkon Haugli: It is true that there was a debate on the development of the allocation. But what's an underlying factor, and that's been the topic before, is this question that the Sameting is always addressing, about the difference in bound funds and earmarked funds. And that's where I think the frustration around the missing process in front of the budget might have been affecting this, so that one had gotten a little less frustration and anger among workers' party representatives on both sides of the table in that committee room. But it was nice to listen to. So to Heikki Holmås: Sarkozy, Merkel, Cameron – and in particular Cameron, on which the representative is based – has not embarked on any kind of collision course with what you can talk about as a multicultural society. But what Cameron says is that the United Kingdom as ‘a Genuinely Liberal Country’ «believes in certain values and actively promotes them». That's why he says, ‘Freedom of speech. Freedom of warship. Democracy. The rule of law. Equal rights, regardless of race, sex or sexuality. It says to its citizens: This is what defines us as a society. To belong here is to believe these things.» I think that's a real emphasis on what Cameron actually wants to say, is that there's a difference between freedom of religion and that many, for example. in the United Kingdom, now professing Islam, and Islamic extremism. That's the starting point for that speech Cameron gave, where he says very clearly that the nonchalant state that says that it's okay that everyone does what they want to do, he doesn't want to stand behind. He wants to say clearly that there are some values that define the rule of law and democracy in the United Kingdom, and these are values that he actively wants to promote. I think that's the right way to go, and I see that I'm in line with the integration policy signals coming from both the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right. I have not heard SV's voice in that debate. It is certainly desirable for the representative Holmås and others to be allowed to express what they think about, for example. The Labour Party's policy mix, but on the Right, we say that many of the measures there are good. These are measures that I have already proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1531	I am pleased to hear the representative Amundsen of the Progress Party acknowledges and recognizes the names attached to the Basic Law, precisely that together is a people who have been here originally, and who thus also have a call for a special cultural protection. It becomes a little strange in relation to the statements the Progress Party is promoting both from this platform and through its comments, where the policy is just about removing all the special protections that are for the Sami people, the Sami language and the Sami culture. There's no connection in it. In my opinion, the comparison with other foreign people who have moved to this country and have stayed here is staggering. They haven't been here before. As Amundsen just points out, the Basic Law provides a special protection for the Sami people because the nation is formed in the territory of two peoples – Norwegian and Sami. In my view, therefore, there is no agreement between that recognition and the policy of the Progress Party in the Sami area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1536	If Trond Helleland hasn't heard us in the debate on integration policy, it's because he hasn't heard about it, because we were just out there and said that it was important to make sure that both basic values and an analysis of society are based, on the one hand, on what kind of problems we see today, where Norwegian society today is also affected by issues such as discrimination and racism. Some of them also have a direct impact on the Sami population. That's why I think it's important to insist that diversity is a strength for a society, and that driving society towards homogeneity is not good. Then you'll easily find yourself in a situation where someone says we're better than others, and we have greater rights than others. I think that's creepy by a majority towards a minority that's particularly vulnerable. As for what kind of values we base on for society, and on which we want to base the Norwegian society, it's an interesting debate. Here we will be, I will tip, 90 pst. single and 10 pst. Disagreement. Democracy and equality are very basic values that I want the Norwegian society to have. So I say that cohesion is a third thing that I think is a strength of Norwegian society, set up against, for example. British society, because societies with small social differences are better than societies with great social differences, both in terms of trust between people and in other things like crime, life expectancy — all the other things. So cohesion is a value we want to base on the Norwegian society. Then I notice that Per-Willy Amundsen from the Progress Party, on the one hand, says that he ends up under the Constitution, but on the other hand he disagrees with what is stated in the Constitution. It's in particular straight enough – we can be many here who disagree with individual elements of the Constitution. But at the same time he says that the Sami people should have the right to a language and the right to practice their own language, as I perceive him. That means that I hereby invite Per-Willy Amundsen to join me in joint play in all the Norwegian newspapers to defend that we should now also name the cities of Tromsø, Bodø and municipalities that choose to do so, both in Sami and Norwegian. It would have been great. It would have been a contribution just to make sure you didn't get the acute situation, to recognise the Sami language in a good way, and it might have been a break with the line that Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party are perceived to stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1548	The President would just like to point out that all speech should be addressed to the President. Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1553	When you mix goals and instruments, it often becomes a pretty messy debate. That is what I perceive that the representative Holmås mfl. do. So it is not the case that maintaining and facilitating the survival of Sami languages, Sami culture and Sami identity in Norwegian society is similar to the policy pursued today. There's a lot of ways to approach it. From our point of view, it's about facilitating, not forcing others. There's a very big difference between the two things to fix and to force others. We will then see that this is about instruments and not about objectives, because we can agree with them. So the point is that at the end of the day, when you talk like that Sami culture, samian tradition is something you can kind of adopt – in this big picture – it's the same person who has to take care of his identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1574	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1592	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1601	Then we should be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1609	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 10 February 2011 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1618	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party at the meeting on 8 February 2011: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an exemption clause relating to the limitation period in connection with the establishment of a new entitlement for soldiers who have served foreign operations, in order to be applicable from 1978, and to make the rights of those who have served from 1978 equivalent to those in force from 2010.’;» The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1639	The vote will take place at the meeting of 8 February 2011 on the proposal from the Party of Presidents of the European Parliament: «The Government is asked to establish a system with a maximum compensation of 65 G at 100 pst. permanent acquiring disability for damaged veterans from international operations. The substitution is proposed to be reduced proportionately with the residual segregated capacity.’ The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1660	The vote will take place at the meeting of 8 February 2011 on the proposal from the Party of Presidents of the European Parliament: ‘The government is asked to adapt the compensation schemes for injured veterans from international operations, the so-called special compensation scheme, so as to cover them with physical damage.’ The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1681	The vote will take place at the Stortinget meeting on 8 February 2011 on the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to adapt the provision relating to the follow-up responsibility so that the time of discovery becomes the time of entitlement in cases where the damage is discovered after the cessation of normal follow-up responsibilities. Today’s practice that anyone who has served in foreign defence missions can contact the Defence for follow-up at any time is continued.’; The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal, and it is supported by the Left. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1698	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1722	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1730	The vote will take place at the meeting of 10 February 2011 on the proposal from the Party of Presidents of the European Parliament: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an administrative validity of 15 years for the light driving licence categories AM, A1, A2, A, B, B1 and BE, and not 10 years as the government proposes in Prop. 52 L [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-15.ana.ud1673e1838	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
