ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e76	The representatives of Inbjørg Vokssken, Henning Skumsvoll, Sylvi Graham, Are Health, Marianne Marthinsen, Øyvind Vaksdal, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, Eva Kristin Hansen and Vigdis Giltun, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Hordaland State: Aslaug Hellesø and Einar Horvei For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen For the Westfold province: Heidi Ørnlo For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås and Kari Agerup An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative Bjørn Lødemel from 15 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Jacob Nødseth is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e152	Jacob Nødseth is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 11 November 2011: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 11 November 2011 at 9 a.m. 1100 is determined: The Council of State Knut Storberget will be given from 11 November 2011 at 2.30 p.m. on application for pardon. Councillor Grete Faremo takes over from 11 November 2011 at 2.30 p.m. by the Ministry of Justice and Police. State Secretary Espen Barth Eide is appointed to the Council of State and will take over from 11 November 2011 at 2.30 p.m. by the Ministry of Defence. Secretary of State Espen Barth Eide for Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre State Secretary Roger Ingebrücken for Council of State Grete Faremo State Secretary Terje Moland Pedersen for Council of State Knut Storberget State Secretary Astri Aas-Hansen for Council of State Knut Storberget State Secretary Pål K. Løseth for Council of State Knut Storberget The following State Secretary is appointed from 11 November 2011 at 14.30: State Secretary Terje Moland Pedersen for Council of State Grete Faremo State Secretary Astri Aas-Hansen for Grete Faremo State Secretary Pål K. Løneth for Council of State Grete Faremo State Secretary Roger Ingebrücksen for Council of State Grete Faremo State Grete Faremo State Pedersen State Secretary for Government Council Grete Faremo State Department of Justice and Police, before being changed to the Jpartite Instrument for Justice and Police Department of Justice until 1 January 2012. The Ministry is delegated the power to make the amendments to regulations, agreements, instructions and provisions necessary as a result of the change of name.’;» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former member of the government, Knut Storberget, has taken the seat as a representative and is welcomed back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e202	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a press release.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e205	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Dagrun Eriksen, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on national targets for the reduction of food waste and the review of the food labelling system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e210	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e213	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal to secure the National Gallery's Munch Hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e218	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e232	I am pleased that on behalf of a joint committee I can present a unanimous opinion on this matter to accept that the state's holdings in SAS AB can be reduced from 14.3 p.m. to 10 pst. in the case of future conversions of debt securities into share capital. The background to the fact that the Storting has had SAS AB for some form of treatment in a number of cases in the last few years is due initially to two factors. One is that international aviation is particularly demanding at the moment for many different reasons. In addition, there is no doubt that SAS AB has been, and is, in a difficult situation in terms of organisation and the relationship between income and expenditure. It has been a long time since expenditure and revenue are in a demanding relationship with each other, and the company has now delivered negative results over several years, which also help to influence the position of the company. As a result, the Storting has, in a number of contexts, provided capital and the willingness to handle the share capital, as a basis for strengthening the position of SAS. So, for the main act done internally in SAS: one has launched a comprehensive restructuring and efficiency process through the Core SAS strategy. We have hope and faith that this one can succeed. However, it may not be the long-term approach that would be right for SAS – therefore, the Storting has already authorised the government to dispose of the SAS shares if one finds an industrial conditional solution for SAS. I believe that in a long-term perspective, it is particularly necessary to focus on the opportunities that lie in it, and that one can get a lasting, good solution for the company's values and its employees by finding, as I said, an industrial long-term solution for the company, so that one avoids constant adjustments in capital and portfolio. As I said, I'm very pleased that we can now present an overall position, which hopefully makes the cost of SAS somewhat less in terms of the borrowings you can now make in the future, that debt securities can be taken up, and that you can convert them into equity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e243	For the sake of further debate, the President wishes to adopt the debate proposed by the Committee. This means that the debate is limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the government. In addition, it is proposed to give rise to a replacement of lines limited to up to three lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that the speaker on the list, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e254	Now that the committee is essentially in agreement with this position, we shall not make the debate bigger than it is naturally. Nevertheless, the opposition has reason to point out that when, in June of this year, the Grand Government authorized changes to SAS, it is worrying that the Storting did not get this case to be dealt with at the time. We're afraid that means that the ministry doesn't have an adequate overview of the situation in the companies where the state currently owns. I hope it's wrong, but there's cause for concern. Nevertheless – even though the Progress Party is behind this proposal that is being launched today, we will be familiar with our principle of skepticism as shareholders of a dominant company operating in as small a market as the aviation market in Norway is. This is particularly important when one sees that the government in this proposition writes that access to loan capital is demanding in the market as a result of the turmoil in government finances in many countries. It shows that through its ownership, the Stortinget and the State give SAS a completely unique position. While other players in the same market must find capital in what we know as a troubled market, SAS can return to the state, which sets up additional arrangements for the company. The State has both management, regulatory and supervisory image within aviation and is also a significant shareholder in the largest player in the Norwegian market. So the state is not just sitting on both sides of the table, but he's sitting all around. It can contribute openly to the weakening of competition in Norwegian aviation. Therefore, I am pleased that Stortinget has given a clear signal that a would like to have a hall in SAS. I hope that such a downsal has taken place in good time before any conversion of the loan into share capital is expected in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e267	The rapporteur and the chairman of the Committee have expressed an excellent consensus on this matter in the Committee. It was supposed to be missing, too! The size now really agrees on how to deal with SAS and ownership there in the future. Powers have been given to sell in connection with industrial solutions, and these powers to convertible bonds are of course important to the company in order to bring down the costs, i.e. the interest expenses. It is not necessary to take the floor to confirm this, but I would like to make a few comments on the extension of the committee chairman, namely, as he put it, "expenditure and revenue are in a difficult relationship with each other." This really applies not only to SAS, that is to all companies, but not least to this company. Therefore, it is important not only to have hope and faith, as the chairman of the committee formulated it, but also to be very ‘on’ in terms of ownership within the framework of which ownership will develop. That is precisely why it is not striking, but rather unfortunate that this matter of issuing convertible bonds comes so quickly after the other matter we had about SAS in our ownership message. This could have been taken at the same time. This gives the impression that you don't have an overview of what you're doing. Whether it's in the company or on the owner's side, I can't say anything about it, because I don't know. That is why I really welcome – after having been against it in the past – the strengthening of the ownership department in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Now it's done. I see no reason to oppose it. I just hope it's done in a way that allows you to be a little bit more ahead of you with these kinds of things, so that the Storting doesn't come after you all the time. We've had sudden issues. We now have this case, which is not a big case, but which goes a little way into the range of this. So I want to congratulate the Minister of Industry on setting up his team to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e278	Let me first thank the Committee and the rapporteur for a quick and thorough work. The Committee endorses the conclusions reached on this matter as a whole. It's positive. SAS AB faces several challenges, challenges that have not been reduced as a result of the international economy, and in particular the situation in the euro area countries. Competition in the aviation market is still increasing with much new ordered capacity. High fuel costs, negative economic prospects and capacity increase in the aviation market are the environment in which the company is to operate in the near future. The company has loans that must be rolled at regular intervals in order to ensure the company's liquidity and capital for the necessary investments. Until the end of 2013, more than 5 billion are due. Swedish kroner of company loans. It's not because you get new deficits to be financed, but simply because previous funding goes out, so you still have to roll these loans. For the company, it has an advantage whether it has flexibility to use different loan instruments when renewing these loans. The possibility of using convertible bond loans is an element involved in the planning of the refinancing of loans in the coming years. The holders of a convertible bond loan have a right, unlike the holders of an ordinary bond loan, but not an obligation to convert the loan into equity if certain conditions are met. Using the right to convert could result in dilution of existing shareholders. Thus, the admission of convertible loans requires decisions at the general meeting. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, if the Storting gives its consent to the proposed mandate, will consider any concrete proposals for the admission of debt securities on a commercial basis. For existing shareholders, the possibility of conversion means that they may have to share with the holders of the convertible bond loan the proportion of the capital increase of the company that goes beyond the amount of the required premium. The advantage is safer and cheaper funding, including more favourable maturities. These elements must be weighed against each other. But I notice that if someone here in the hall is absolutely sure that this is being converted, it means a very positive attitude towards the company's value development in the years to come. That means SAS has some hot trailers here in the hall. The government continues to believe that the business challenges facing SAS are likely to be best met with an industrial partner on the owner’s side. In the run-up to the existence of any industrial solution, it is central to the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s follow-up to the company to ensure that the board and administration continue to adapt the supply and costs so as to increase competitiveness. A part of this is precisely to contribute to the company’s appropriate funding. The demand for convertible bond loans can fluctuate relatively much. In order to make full use of the flexibility of this instrument, there is an advantage that the board of directors, in a situation where it is considered appropriate to raise convertible loans, will be able to clarify relatively quickly with the largest owners whether they could support such a transaction. The possibilities for exploiting the convertible bond market would be increased if the Storting gave its consent, as proposed in the proposal. So to this that there are still new things coming. Well, here it is not the capacity or forward-looking attitudes in the ownership department that are the challenge – on the contrary, it is very professional, and they handle matters in a good way. But it is that we have to deal with what the board and the management of the company are presenting to us. As owner, we do our assessments, often with external consultants. Then, from time to time, matters are to be dealt with by the government before they can be presented in Stortinget. We present the matter to Stortinget as quickly as we think it is reasonable, assuming that we also agree with the conclusions that we recommend to Stortinget. So there's no capacity problem in the ownership department that's the challenge here, it's just the time to have a proper process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e293	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e296	I am aware that the ownership department and the state council deal with what comes from the board of directors and the company – of course – but I also assume that the owner is making his own ongoing assessments of the company. In that case, it would be unnatural. In this regard, it's speculated – I get to speculate. However, with regard to the third quarter of the SAS, there is no doubt that there are problems with the refinancing of the loans. You sell property, you sell aircraft, etc. There's a lot of ways to view this, but if the market gets difficult, it's not sure it's going to be that easy. Does the Council of State feel convinced that this can be handled in the short term? Do you have the necessary instruments in the company so that we do not get new surprises and new things – both for the department and for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e303	No, no, no. We know, according to the company, that the savings programme Core SAS has been implemented according to the plan. There's still a little bit left, but they're going to say in terms of that. Then the new CEO has now presented a new strategy that is slightly different from the previous one, and that for the company involves rather tough cuts on the cost side every year. So this doesn't end – on the contrary, we see that the economic problems in our part of the world continue. We also see that the low-cost companies provide tougher competition for SAS. So SAS must continuously improve its operating margins, while refinancing old capital. As the responsible owner, I think it is completely impossible to guarantee that we cannot come back with new questions about the company. However, we are heavily dependent on the company and assume that the savings plans to which it is added will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e310	The representative of the fleet wants the floor for another line, and that is the reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e313	If that's possible, I'd like to continue the discussion about what I really took the line for. I agree with what the Council says about the Core programme. Efforts must be made to reduce operating costs in the longer term. What may be more relevant is making the payments, being able to refinance itself in the market. I understand that the ownership department and the state council are not directly inside this, but I assume that you look at it a little from the outside, because it could cause a problem for the company. So if the state council could also come up with some considerations about it, in line with the savings program, I would be interested to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e323	We are pleased that SAS implemented Core SAS in a good way, and that gives us confidence that the company is able to implement savings programmes and ambitions. Nor are we concerned about the current liquidity situation of SAS. So we don't have any concern about SAS's ability to pay the loans they have. On the contrary, we feel quite confident that this is all right. But what we see is a picture where the entire aviation industry, really, is struggling, where one gets new capacity for large orders. We saw most recently the world's largest air contract with Boeing and the Emirates. So constantly new planes are ordered, and competition is getting tougher. That's also why we've asked the Storting for the power that we've been given to, together with our other owners, to find industrial, structural solutions for SAS that may be more competitive in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e330	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 452]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e346	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e355	As rapporteur of the case, I would like to present the position of the Economic and Social Committee on the law on nutrition preparedness. The new bill contributes to the repeal of the Supply Act of 14 December 1956. The Supply Act has been an important pillar for long-term preparedness planning. Much has taken place around the development of business and society and has helped to address the legislative proposals in line with today’s societal security and preparedness challenges. There is a clear need to adapt the tools to today's situation and say good-bye to a law designed to deal with threats after the Cold War. It is important that, as far as possible, authorities can ensure the security of the population and predictability of traders, by signalling the types of action considered most appropriate and likely in a crisis situation, not least in terms of goods and services for both civil society and defence. Much has happened in this area, for example: in the case of industrial structures, logistical solutions and infrastructures since the adoption of this Act. Social security and preparedness and administrative solutions in the public sector have also changed considerably since then. In particular, the situation of ICT services can be mentioned. The loss of ICT services in a crisis situation could have major consequences for individual enterprises today, not least in the event of short-term crises. The new law lays down how a well-functioning business life with its competence and with new systems can meet the expectations of society for them in crisis. The ordinary organisation and infrastructure of the business community is taken into account. Issues related to compensation have been the subject of varying degrees of discussion. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has always taken the position that when the business community assumes social security tasks beyond what can be expected from its own operations, this should be compensated in a reasonable manner. This principle is now broken down by law and protected by agreements or regulations that are appropriate for each industry. During the consultation, several economic operators expressed a positive opinion on this approach. The Right Party and the Advance Party have their own comment on this point in the setting that I believe they will explain themselves, but I note that there does not seem to be any disagreement regarding the principle of compensation to the business community. It is more appropriate to have flexible emergency and cooperation systems than detailed and static planning. However, if assessments of the situation show that more detailed plans are needed for specific undesirable situations or for individual sectors, this is both possible and desirable. The Committee welcomes the fact that the new Food Preparedness Act states that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has a responsibility to contribute to good business environment, including in the event of supply crises. The law can be applied in a wide range of unforeseen situations and can be a useful tool for other departments, which can also use the new homes as a complement to their own sectoral legislation. On behalf of the Business Committee, I propose a unanimous recommendation for a new law on nutrition preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e385	Prop. 111 L for 2010–2011 concerns an important law that addresses cooperation between public and private sectors, including business, in the context of different types of crises. It's a law that will be renewed if necessary, and now it's time again. The first time the law was applied was in 1917. It was then revised in 1956 and then today, 55 years later. Many have changed in these years, such as society, how we live, and the world map. The crises are also closer to us today than before. As a result, Norway becomes part of all crises, even though they do not initially affect us in a significant way. The crises are also different now than before. Now we are more dependent on good infrastructure, power, other types of energy, data and communication, and we have different types of refugee flows and much more. This also means that our preparedness needs to be more flexible and take into account many more types of situations than before. Therefore, it is good that this law opens up a better and more flexible preparedness than before, and that the public and private are better equipped through cooperation to meet tomorrow's situation. The law covers both goods and services and also includes the preparation and implementation of specific measures. But it also says that it is only when the public itself cannot sort out its resources, or when public expenditure is disproportionate to what private resources can contribute, that private resources can be used. The Committee is unanimous in its comments, with the exception of the comments of the Party of Advances and the Right, which would stress with this comment that economic operators are to be fully compensated for financial losses, additional costs and significant disadvantages by making available their industrial structure, logistical solutions and infrastructure, as well as their goods and services. We do this because Section 17 says something of the same thing, but – and it is a big one but – that it has to be compensated according to the provisions of the King. So now you don't know if it's going to be full real compensation or anything else. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it is in place to include this comment. The Progress Party wants the law to be a force and a renewal for Norway's situation in a crisis, regardless of the type of crisis, and that we are now stronger and more prepared than before, by getting cooperation and more use of the resources we have at our disposal. Finally, the Progress Party hopes that it will not be 55 years until the next time the law comes up for new treatment, but that we have a law that is constantly up-to-date with the challenges we think will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e400	With this in mind, the Ministry proposes to repeal today’s 1956 Supply Act and promote a new Food Preparedness Act that will be better adapted to today’s challenges. Particular attention is drawn to the fact that the new law: To be more clearly based on business cooperation, industry’s ordinary organisation and infrastructure and to be applied in a wide range of unforeseen situations shall include both goods and services, preparedness preparation and implementation of specific measures and more open to an instrument use based on the individual specific situation. Here's a bill change that's been working for a long time with several governments, across departments. As an example, the Cooperative Government – Bondevik II –, which set down the Vulnerability Committee, the so-called Willoch Committee, where it has, among other things. noted the importance of partnerships between businesses and authorities in the field of supply planning. The aim of the law is to ensure, as far as possible, the needs of society for goods and services in the event of crises. Challenges in the area of social security, preparedness and administrative solutions in the public sector have changed radically, and the new law will therefore be better adapted to current challenges. In particular, the situation of ICT services — as others have also mentioned — which, in the event of a breakdown in a crisis situation in today’s society, could have a significant impact on individual enterprises. The right is pleased that the new law will be much more clearly based on cooperation with business. The right also welcomes the fact that the new Food Preparedness Act states that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has a clear responsibility to contribute to good business environment even in the event of supply crises, and that only when absolutely necessary will specific measures be imposed on industries. The right assumes that traders are to be fully compensated for financial losses, additional costs and significant disadvantages by making available their business structure, logistics solutions and infrastructure, as well as their goods and services. Finally, I would like to point out that it is also positive that the law can be a useful tool for other departments, as they will also be able to use the new funds as a complement to their own sectoral legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e425	The proposal for a new law on food preparedness is intended to ensure access to goods and services. The draft provides for close cooperation between the authorities and the business community. The new law will replace the law of 14 December 1956 on supply and preparedness measures – the Supply Act – tailored to the supply challenges of the 1950s. The development of industry and society has led to the need for new solutions in order to prepare for potential crises. The draft new Food Preparedness Act facilitates a more adapted preparedness of our time. Changes in the threat picture, the emergence of new industries, the development of new technologies and changing logistics patterns are some of the trends in society that have made the Supply Act obsolete. But these societal changes also provide us with new opportunities for effective solutions to supply problems that may arise. A new law will help business to meet effectively the societal security challenges arising from today’s risk profile with today’s industrial structure and defence and industrial policy framework conditions. The proposed new law is better adapted to today’s challenges by making it clearer on the basis of cooperation with business and by using the ordinary organisation and infrastructure of business. The law can be applied in a wide range of unforeseen situations and covers both goods and services. It is not fixed in specific measures or related to specific scenarios, but is flexible and provides opening for situation-adjusted crisis management. This flexibility makes, among other things: avoiding pressure towards over-recovery of measures. The proposal also covers both the preparation and implementation of crisis management. The draft law regulates cooperation between authorities and businesses in crises with serious consequences for access to goods and services. This is a continuation of the idea from the overall defence concept that all the country’s resources need to be put into crisis, but at the same time a recognition that industry is best placed to handle its trades even in crises. The draft law is based on the normal division of responsibilities and tasks between authorities and between authorities and businesses. The draft law emphasises that specific measures can only be applied to the extent necessary in view of the specific situation. No specific provisions or measures shall be taken under the law if the same can be achieved in a different manner in time and without disproportionate costs. It has been important for the draft law to continue the principle of compensating traders for the economic and social security costs with which they agree or are imposed by the authorities in order to ensure access to goods and services in crisis. In my view, this is essential both for the economy of individual enterprises and for the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises internationally and in order to avoid arbitrary price quotations. The way in which compensation is calculated and paid must be handled according to the organisation and structure of the enterprise. The provisions of the draft law on compensation have therefore been drawn up in such a way as to enable agreements or regulations to establish arrangements appropriate to each industry. Provisions have also been incorporated which allow both parties to have the compensation determined in accordance with normal judgement rules. The tasks of local authorities are proposed limited to assistance to the business community, in order to enable entrepreneurs to carry out their assigned tasks in a wide range of crises. It is also stressed that weaknesses in the availability of goods and services identified by risk and vulnerability analyses need to be followed up by municipalities. This too is in line with the responsibilities and tasks that are common in society. As far as the county councillors are concerned, it is stressed that the draft law should primarily reflect their normal supervisory responsibilities towards the municipalities. Several ministries have responsibilities for sectors in which industry manages important social interests. Accordingly, the statutory homes in the draft law are provided for by several ministries. In addition, the sectoral responsibility of the Ministry of Labour is monitored by the proposed amendments to the Nav Act. In my view, the Business Emergency Act will improve predictability for both business and government through greater realism in crisis management preparation. I have good experience with both voluntary and legal cooperation with business in times of crisis. During the pandemic preparations last year, for example, the Ministry of Industry had: close cooperation with food distributors. Furthermore, there are strong elements of simplification and modernisation in the draft. The draft is a good tool for authorities to increase the robustness of society in terms of access to goods and services in crisis situations. I want to add that through the processing we have had close cooperation with the business community itself, with the businesses and with the sector, which also sees very positive in this new and modern way of organising a good crisis response device.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e457	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e460	This is a matter of which there is a great deal of agreement, and which we all want to welcome. The only thing there is a little disagreement about – or at least uncertainty about – is that we in the Progress Party want to clarify the compensation to business. That's where Section 17 comes into the picture. From the point of view of the Progress Party, the compensation may be somewhat vague. Paragraph 17 states that it shall be compensated in accordance with the provisions laid down by the King. This is where my question comes from: What is it in the «rules laid down by the King»?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e467	That's what I'm saying in the post, that we're assuming that it's to be compensated. It is necessary for the well-being of businesses, it is necessary for their competitiveness, and there is a need for the credibility of the whole system. But there are so many different tasks and industries that it's important to have this flexibility. I also said in the post – and as I pointed out – that there is a separate paragraph, Section 18, which states that the parties may require compensation under Section 17 to be determined by discretion according to the rules of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Judgments. So I believe that the individual businesses and the individual industries are well cared for in the legislative proposal that is being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e474	The Council of State has probably seen the Right and Advance Party's comment in this regard, where we will make this concrete, so that there is no doubt that full compensation will be paid for the use of business services and goods. I go, as I said, on the assumption that the Council of State has read the comment. Is there anything in the comment that the Council of State disagrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e479	It is a question of definition of ‘essential disadvantages’, as stated in the remark. This is a law that is made in legal language and is designed to be used in a crisis situation. Hopefully, we'll have to use this law as rarely as possible. In the most serious cases there may be very difficult situations. I think the flexibility that the law provides to find good solutions for businesses is exactly the legal anchoring we need when it comes to the consideration that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e485	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e503	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e512	As rapporteur of the case, I would like to present the position of the Economic and Social Committee on amendments to the Law of the Sea. The changes contribute to the implementation of the EU Directive on the investigation of marine casualties. The objective of the Directive is to improve maritime safety and reduce the risk of future maritime accidents. These changes will help to bring about better consistency between the Norwegian law, the Council Directive and the IMO legislation and will lead to a clearer legal framework. How seafarers have been treated following a maritime accident is something that has received great attention both internationally and nationally. It is therefore important that the flag States, the home state of the seafarers, the police etc. is aware of the stresses to which a seafarer is subjected by interrogating various board members, shipping companies and insurers. Not least, this is a load when it takes a long time and you are far from home. It therefore welcomes the inclusion of a reference to the IMO Guidelines on Fair Treatment of Seafarers and its follow-up in the Act. Seafarers’ organisations have been consultative bodies and all are generally in favour of the proposed changes. Everyone is committed to the full transposition by Norway of the Directive into national law. Maritime safety is important and better investigation of maritime accidents is therefore very important. Such studies could be important contributors in order to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. The Directive extends the obligation of scrutiny in relation to the applicable rules of the maritime law and imposes additional requirements on pilot studies in the case of serious accidents to decide whether to initiate an investigation. It is very important that we now have scrutiny obligations for foreign ships as well. The obligation to investigate will continue to apply to accidents in which someone loses his life and, in addition, when the accident substantially affects the interests of the State. The amendment of the law provides clear guidance for the start of a review within two months and the final report is due to be completed within 12 months. Furthermore, the Committee has made it clear that it is important to avoid parallel investigations and that, on this basis, a flag State or coastal State principle should essentially be addressed in the selection of a State with primary responsibility for the investigation, in line with the input of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation to the hearing. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have shown that the government does not choose to propose the obligation to investigate accidents at work, even if the maritime organisations and the LO have made representations thereon. However, an overall committee has said that such accidents can be investigated, even if they do not become an automatic one. We believe that such a priority will be able to concentrate the investigation of accidents with the highest potential to improve safety. Finally, I would like to point out that there is an overall committee behind this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e533	The proposal we are examining now concerns the investigation of maritime accidents involving Norwegian ships, including fishing vessels and recreational craft, and accidents involving foreign ships when the accident occurs in Norway or outside Norway, if the flag State agrees to it, or according to international law can be exercised Norwegian jurisdiction. I also record that the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association has expressed in its opinion that this partly violates the flag State principle, and believe that the Norwegian authorities are striving to comply as far as possible with the flag State and/or coastal State principle in the selection of the principal. The accidents may be defined into three categories: marine casualties of very serious marine casualties; This would imply the imposition of an obligation on all those involved in a marine casualty to ensure evidence and to impose an obligation of scrutiny on the flag State. This is important and good. The investigation shall take place within two months of the occurrence of the accident. There will also be a requirement for all interested parties to be obliged to explain themselves. However, there is a concern to protect those who have to explain, in particular with regard to: privacy, business secrets and the fact that information provided may be used for purposes other than those related to maritime safety. Obligatory cooperation between investigative bodies in different countries affected by the accident is also important through reporting obligations. I also note that the Department agrees with the Norwegian Shipowners' Association that parallel investigations are unfortunate, which may lead to different conclusions regarding the course of events and causalities. The law also provides that for marine casualties other than the very serious ones, the investigating body may issue a simplified report. The final report, if any, the simplified report, shall be published within 12 months of the occurrence of the accident. However, in specific cases which make it difficult to submit a final report, an interim report shall be submitted. We also want the obligation to investigate accidents at work that no one has lost their lives. We think it should have been included, because there are a lot of accidents that can be avoided by investigating more that similar happens in retrospect. In addition, the Progress Party supports the existing legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e569	Proposals for amendments to the Maritime Act are intended to improve consistency between the law, the Directive and the IMO legislation and to make the legislation clearer. The Directive deals with the investigation of marine casualties and aims at promoting maritime safety and at reducing the likelihood of recurrence of accidents. The right has long considered it important to obtain the best possible safety at sea and is therefore in favour of investigating several marine casualties from a maritime safety point of view. The Directive also extends the obligation of scrutiny in relation to the applicable rules of the maritime law, so that the obligation of scrutiny also applies to non-resident ships in which the accident takes place within the jurisdiction of the State and where the accident substantially affects the interests of the State. Here, the majority of the Committee felt that parallel investigations should be avoided, and that, in this context, one should essentially relate to the flag State or coastal State principle in the selection of a State with primary responsibility for scrutiny, as proposed by the Directorate. The right considers it important that accidents involving the loss of ships be made subject to investigation, as such accidents are currently subject to investigation only if someone loses his life in the accident. The right also believes that it is unfortunate that the government does not propose the obligation to investigate accidents at work that no one has lost their lives. Both the maritime organisations and the LO objected in the hearings on the non-compliance of the proposal with such an obligation to investigate. At the same time, the State's Committee on Transport has stated that this will be a proper priority, as it will release resources in the department, so that accidents with the highest potential for improving safety can be concentrated. The right-wing party supports the objections raised by those hearing bodies. We have also noticed that the amendment of the law does not mean that such accidents cannot be investigated in the future, but that there will no longer be an automatic one in this, and that it will therefore be up to the investigating body to decide whether these accidents should be investigated or not. On the right, the government considers that it must be willing to assess whether major pleasure boat accidents should also be investigated by the accident commission. This question was not mentioned in the letter of hearing. Looking back in the last summer, the movement at sea has demanded an abnormally large number of human lives. Nine people died in two series of serious boating accidents in the East, prior to the late summer, several people were killed in a major recreational boat accident outside Ålesund. In the right, it would be wise to gain experience in this type of accident in order to be able to carry out more targeted prevention work. Further reference is made to Document 15:1925 for 2010–2011, where it appears that the government believes that the time has come for a ‘wide review of the safety of recreational craft’. The right supports such a review and looks forward to being briefed on the further work. Finally, reference may also be made to the Interpellation of 20 October this year by Kari Henriksen, Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, on the basis of which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade said that he had asked the Maritime Director to set up a working group to assess the safety of recreational craft in a broad perspective. Right-wing requests that, on this occasion, an assessment be made as to whether this working group should also consider the question of the obligation to investigate under its mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e595	As many have been here today, it is important to have knowledge of the causes of marine casualties. Understanding the causes makes it possible to prevent accidents and create safe workplaces. Prevention takes place on many levels. Governing powers, shipowners' teams and crews need insight into causal relationships when they are to take their share of responsibility to prevent the occurrence of new accidents. The legislative proposal extends the obligation to investigate more accidents than at present, and it is very positive. The new laws provide for better cooperation between countries involved in accidents. It can help to better inform accidents, and it can provide a better basis for drawing conclusions about what has happened and what one can learn from accidents. Therefore, SV sees the extended cooperation between those involved in an accident as one of the important improvements in the new law in relation to the promise we have today. The new law does not require all accidents with serious injuries to be investigated, but there is a possibility of investigating these accidents as well. It will be for the investigating body to assess when to do so. We see our trust that the investigative body does it when it thinks it's important for maritime safety. Accidents at sea can be a great tax on seafarers. It is therefore positive that the law has a reference to the IMO guidelines for the fair treatment of seafarers. In a difficult situation with strong feelings, it is important that individuals be treated with respect, and that the information that appears in the hearings is not used for things other than what is actually being heard. It'll make it easier to find out the facts about what's happened. We have left behind a summer with many tragic accidents with recreational boats. Some time ago, we had an interpellation and an extensive debate here in the Chamber on what can be done to avoid accidents involving recreational boats. There was a big deal about the need for a wide review. For this reason, the government has set up a working group to look at accidents involving recreational boats. It would be natural to consider the need for any adjustment to the law on recreational boat accidents when this working group is done. That's why it's not natural to include it in this proposition, but, as I said, we're looking forward to it being relevant when we get a holistic assessment of what we're going to do with the accidents of recreational boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e608	The proposed amendments to the Maritime Act are a good contribution to enhancing maritime safety. It is also positive that maritime law, the EU Directive and the IMO Code are now better aligned. It is in the nature of the matter that maritime transport crosses national borders and maritime accidents have no limits. A common regulatory framework for investigations is therefore important. Investigation of marine casualties has several objectives. One important purpose is that the review provides an opportunity to learn from what went wrong. If a teacher of his faults, you hopefully avoid making the same mistakes in the future. It strengthens maritime safety – and it also saves lives. Safety at sea must not be limited solely to commercial transport. In one year, several lives have been lost in serious pleasure boat accidents, as representatives mentioned earlier. Many of these accidents have common features that should be identified and looked at in order to clarify the cause of the accident. There may be features at the boat or boatmaster – or both. Experience in recreational boating accidents may be included in the training of recreational boaters, but the obligation to investigate needs to be extended to include serious recreational boating accidents. Although we do not know all the causes of recreational boating accidents, we know something: the most serious accidents are often caused by alcohol use. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed zero tolerance for alcohol use among boat drivers. We think that's going to help reduce the amount of accidents. The Council of State has previously stated that the Maritime Director will set up a working group to assess the safety of recreational craft in a broad perspective. We expect a lot from that group. We in the Christian People's Party expect our proposal on zero tolerance for alcohol use among boat drivers to be thoroughly evaluated in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e623	Knowledge of the course of events and causes of marine casualties is important for several reasons. Firstly, it will provide answers to relatives and others who have been involved in accidents, about what has gone wrong, and why it has happened. Secondly, knowledge from surveys will be an important lesson for authorities, shipping companies, seafarers, insurance companies and other interested parties, in order to avoid such accidents occurring again. Since 2008, the State Disaster Commission for Transport has conducted investigations into serious accidents at sea. During these years, the Commission has carried out dozens of studies and has made a number of recommendations on improvements to maritime safety. It's my clear impression that there's satisfaction among the actors in the work the Commission has done these three years. In my view, there is no doubt that, through its work, the Disaster Commission is helping to strengthen maritime safety. In the draft law, which is based on an EU directive, the government has proposed measures to further strengthen efforts to investigate marine accidents. We propose to extend the investigation obligation to cover more accidents than at present. It will provide an even wider basis of experience in the prevention of maritime safety. Furthermore, we propose closer cooperation between investigative authorities when the accident affects several countries. With the international nature of shipping, it is essential that the countries concerned have close and good cooperation. Parallel studies ending with separate reports must be avoided. The IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, has adopted binding cooperation rules and the EU has set up even closer cooperation within the EEA through the Directive. The legislative proposal takes account of both of these obligations. When an accident has occurred, the public needs answers to all unanswered questions as soon as possible. At the same time, we know that it will usually take some time to carry out the necessary studies, which will end up with a report from the Committee on Disasters. I am concerned that we need to be able to get a relatively quick clarification of what has happened, while the investigation must be done in a thorough and sound manner. I believe that setting a time limit in the maritime law for the submission of a report would make sense, and therefore propose a twelve-month time limit in the proposal. If the complexity of the case indicates that it is not possible, an interim report must be published. In addition to strengthening the work of investigating marine casualties, there is also another important aspect the government has mentioned in the proposal. This concerns the treatment of seafarers who have been involved in a maritime accident. For seafarers, investigations by the accident commission, police, insurance companies and others, in particular whether this is done in a foreign country, may be a serious burden. In order to strengthen the legal status of seafarers in such situations, the Government has proposed the inclusion in the Maritime Act of a reference to the IMO Guidelines on the equitable treatment of seafarers. In my view, this bill means a strengthening of safety at sea by investigating several accidents, and that we want European harmonised rules to do this. At the same time, the legal status of seafarers involved in a maritime accident is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e638	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e641	We have experienced many accidents with recreational boats with tragic results this summer. My question to the Council of State is: Can we imagine that we will have an evaluation of or a change in the law on recreational craft and small boats with any intensifications? Can we count on getting it brought into this room, and if we get it, when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e646	Let me first point out that there is no restriction on the ability of the Commission to conduct investigations. Under the current regulations of the Maritime Act, accidents involving recreational craft are fully investigated if the cause of the accident is unclear. Earlier in the debate, reference was also made to the inter-pelling debate we had on 20 October this year, when the representative Kari Henriksen had an inter-pellation on the safety of recreational boats. I then explained the creation of a working group that will assess safety in a broad perspective. An important starting point for the working group is to have the best possible understanding of the causes of accidents involving recreational boats, including: to have a basis for taking the appropriate measures to prevent such accidents. The Maritime Director, as head of the working group, has been given a broad mandate. This means that this group can also examine the rules of the Law of the Sea necessary for the investigation of marine casualties in recreational craft.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e654	The Councils of State have made a thorough and broad presentation of the need and importance of looking at different causes of accidents and the importance of using investigation as a tool. Now it was not as clear about the working group that was set up to look at pleasure boats. My simple and straightforward question to the Council of State is: Has this working group been given a clear mandate to consider the obligation to investigate accidents even with recreational boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e659	The mandate given to the group is quite broad: to look at how we can prevent and reduce the number of accidents and how we can improve safety at sea also for recreational use. So the group is really quite free to propose the measures and legislative changes and regulations that need to be made to improve safety. I think that's the most reasonable way to approach such a selection work. Such a working group will receive a lot of information and will be able to see the case from many different sides. It will then be possible to assess different ways of acquiring the most knowledge of why accidents occur, and not least how we can reduce the extent of accidents. I look forward to the report of the working party and will, of course, come back to the Storting with the measures that may need to be anchored here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e666	We have registered and also discussed very much the tragic accidents that have occurred at sea with small boats. Then, in my question, I come to the conclusion that the government is tickling, among other things. in the aid granted to the Rescue Company. Does the Council of State find it problematic to have more tragic accidents because of not being saved in time? And will the Council of State take action to persuade the other councils to grant the money to maintain preparedness along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e671	Now I'm not going to get involved in the budgets of other departments, but I can say for my own part that I've always thought that the Rescue Company is doing an important job. In my former job as Minister of Culture, we mourned, among other things, that the rescue company was guaranteed very good income from Norwegian Typing, a monopoly of gambling which is sometimes at issue, but which is not least very important for the rescue company, because it channels many millions every year to the rescue company. So if the representative and his party support the Norwegian Typing gaming monopoly, I will consider talking to my colleagues about the government's appropriations for the Rescue Company.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e676	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e696	The NRK program Focused not long ago on young men behind the wheel and on what we can do to reduce the accidents among this group. So young men are drivers in every five fatalities in traffic, and we know that young people between the ages of 18 and 24 are the most accident-prone group in traffic. An 18-year-old with a completely fresh driving licence has 40 times the accident risk of the rest of us, 40 times – not 40 pst. We know that the boys have this accident risk to a greater extent than the girls. Why is that so, and what can we do to further reduce the accident rates in this group? We have no one to lose in traffic, and at least we have no young people to lose in traffic. Let me begin with the good news from the State Road Service not many days ago: By the end of October, 146 people lost their lives in road accidents. It's 146 too many, but it's 40 fewer than at the same time last year. Over the past 12 months, 168 people have died in traffic. «We have to go back to 1953 to find correspondingly low numbers. That year, 163 people died in traffic", says Guro Ranes of the State Road Administration in a press release. It is also very gratifying that the youth group finally has a positive development. There are far fewer killed young people aged 18 to 24 now, from 33 to 23 this year. But still young people are overrepresented in statistics. Youth is involved in 25 pst. of the accidents, but stands for only 7 pst. of traffic. The red-green government and the red-green parties on the Stortinget have had road safety high on the agenda. There are actions that we see the effects of directly in a positive development in accident statistics. This is about everything from the great effort we have in the national transport plan, both on the investment and operation of roads and on road safety measures such as middle parts, reinforced centre marking, street lights and other minor measures. We build more and safer roads. We've put in place average speed measurement, and the speed limits have been reduced on a number of roads to reduce the accident risk. We have also increased the focus on awareness-raising work through, among other things. to increase the contribution to Safety Traffic. We have an action plan on road safety, and we have a separate action plan specifically aimed at reducing youth accidents. The number of police checks has increased, and the control activity of the State Road Service has also increased. So point number. 1 in order to continue to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, and to reduce the accidents involving young people, we need to do more of what we already do and what we see works. Implementing the current NTP and proposing an additional ambitious NTP for 2014-2023 will be important. The implementation of the National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013 with its 152 actions will be important. The implementation of the ‘Plan of Action against Youth Accidents’ by the State Road Administration, Safety Traffic and Police on a mission from the Ministry of Transport must be a priority task. Here I know that you are doing well, and the new dot load system that was introduced on 1 July of this year, where inexperienced drivers – i.e. drivers who are in the two-year trial period all have to pass through when taking driving licences, especially young people – having a double dot load, are one of the measures in this plan. Item No 2 must be to take action we know will work, but as we have so far not applied, because the big question is whether what we are doing is enough. Are there enough general road safety measures to reduce youth accidents, or do we need to use even more targeted instruments? Research tells us why young drivers, especially young boys, are so vulnerable to traffic: the area of the brain where the judgment is sitting is not fully developed until 25 years old. That's why they're reading the traffic badly. The ratio of kilometres travelled to serious accidents is several times higher than among experienced drivers, according to senior researcher Dagfinn Moe at SINTEF. Young people are dangerous both for themselves and for others in the first few years after receiving their driving licence. It is not just due to overcoming youth and lack of experience. This is because the functions of the brain that make it possible to make social assessments, consider alternatives and plan for the future are not in place in 18-year-olds, and this is especially true for boys. I have an inconvenient belief in training and awareness-raising work and believe that we need to do more of that. Getting traffic basic and road safety into the upper secondary school as an electoral profession, in line with the primary school report, will be very important. But I also believe that we need to look at driver training. We know that driver training is now under evaluation, and at least I imagine that we need to make changes. We have to reintroduce the mandatory theoretical knowledge course, and we have to make sure that there is more quantifiable training as part of the training course when taking a driving licence. This is also in line with the signals from the competence environment, among others. in the training of a traffic teacher at the Nord-Trøndelag High School. I also believe that driver training needs to be more adapted to the individual. This I know has been tried out some places, and the experience is good. We're different, so we need different driver training. Researchers, as well as Safety Traffic, believe that a gradual extension of the right to drive, or a graduated driving licence, will be an action that can work against young people. Testing a system of graduated driving licences, where young people gradually get more responsibility, I think we should assess. It may be that an 18-year-old who has just driven up, for the first time, is only allowed to drive while it is bright and not allowed to carry passengers, and so that a person should gradually acquire competence to carry passengers and drive all day long. We also know that high speed and driving in a drug-induced condition are not uncommon among young people, and that this is contributing to many of the accidents in this group, as it is also in other groups. Researchers and experts are aware that speed locks and alcolocks in cars are measures that should be introduced for this group. I believe that we should seriously discuss this, and we need to consider attempts at speed locks and alcolocks. When researchers and experts clearly recommend actions that they believe work, I believe that we have a responsibility to test them out. Since there are young men in the risk group in the first place, we also have to dare to discuss whether some of the measures should be targeted at them in the first place. Every time such proposals are raised, there is a discussion of freedom. It is argued that these controversial measures will restrict freedom to individuals in traffic. For me the question is then: What is freedom in traffic? Some people seem to think that that means that we're going to have the freedom to drive as fast as we want, and largely act as we want on the roads. I believe freedom in traffic is freedom to travel safely, without any danger of anyone coming rushing at great speed or in other ways driving irresponsiblely. Freedom is security. Then we can defend putting in controversial measures. I am an impatient soul and believe that we should have greater political courage to try out new measures. We have to get tougher. That's why I'm going to leave the debate today and ask the Council of State what she sees doing to reduce the accidents of youth in general and the accidents caused by young men in particular. My hope is that we get a prejudice-free debate, where we can think loudly, and where we can well disagree. The point must be that we're able to move some steps forward. The important thing is that we all agree on the goal: we have no one to lose in traffic, and we have at least no young people to lose in traffic!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e734	The interpellant puts the search light on a very important theme. The accident rate so far in 2011 shows that the number of fatalities in traffic is falling. The number of killed young people has the same development. But one kill is one too much. Fewer deaths and severe injuries are about efforts on a broad front: better and safer roads, but also measures against drivers. It's a big responsibility to drive a car on a behalf where we all travel. Those who are not aware of this responsibility should not hold a driver card. The government's vision is that there should not be accidents with killed or severely damaged road traffic. In order to ensure the quality of security work, it is crucial to have a good knowledge of the risks and causes of serious accidents. Road safety work is thus developed on the basis of risk analysis, in-depth analysis, evaluation of actions implemented and results from research and distribution work. Young people aged 15 to 24 are overrepresented in accident statistics. Despite the fact that this age group only represents 14 pst. of the population, she is involved in about 30 pst. of all traffic accidents. In the 2010–2019 national transport plan, the government has adopted its own strategy against youth traffickers. The plan was drawn up by the State Road Administration in 2009 in cooperation with the State Development Police and Security Traffic. Measures under this plan are part of the National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013. The plan contains a total of 152 measures aimed at road, rail and road users. Action against young people includes measures before the acquisition of the right of access and during the trial period and measures directed against those who have lost the right to speak. Example of better traffic training in schools, e.g. development of good learning material, stimulation of increased quantitivity training during driver training, increased effort related to the quality of driver training through supervision of traffic balls, extension of schemes such as ‘Failty home for a 50-note note’ and support for local projects targeting traffic security and youth. The most serious openings are characterized by high speed, rush and lack of seat belt use. Although young men are overrepresented in serious accidents, not all young men run dangerously. Nor is it the case that all other groups in the population run risk-free. Although young people are overrepresented in traffic accidents, many of these young people have a very legitimate need for transport. Especially in the districts, cars are often the only transport option. The current action needs to be assessed in the light of this. The main focus, therefore, must be to develop measures that address dangerous traffic and risky behaviour. Research shows that there are two main reasons why young people are over-represented in accidents: lack of running experience and the individual driver’s high risk behaviour. Today’s training model, introduced in 2005, places greater emphasis on risk understanding and increasing realistic training in training than in the past. Driver training will be evaluated now in 2011 and 2012. Once this is done, we'll have a basis for evaluating any changes. At the same time as we are now evaluating running training, the government has already introduced measures to unlock drivers with risk behaviour, especially targeting young people and inexperienced drivers. Control activities are important in dealing with accidents, and the government prioritizes effective and targeted controls. Police work on road safety is therefore directed at risk groups, risk factors, road sections and periods where the risk of accidents is greatest. The control system is therefore directed specifically against aggressive and dangerous traffic behaviour, with particular emphasis on high speed, the effects of running on drugs and the lack of protective equipment such as safety belts. The government has increased police control, and from 2009 to 2010 the number of controlled drivers and vehicles has increased by more than 11 pst. I have also seen work going on to sharpen the use of safety belts. From 2009 onwards, the government has used route-based automatic traffic control. The evaluation shows that this is an effective tool for reducing the speed of sections that are particularly exposed to accidents. Route ATK has been introduced as a permanent control system. Up until now, four sections are equipped with distance ATK. Here you can see the green light for up to 40 new years. From 1 July 2011, the government introduced a revised dot load scheme. The aim is to prevent traffic behaviour involving many accidents and to make it easier to react to drivers who repeatedly break traffic rules. The new arrangements have been extended, for example: by including new cases of dot load, such as a short distance from the vehicle in front of it, missing passenger safety below the age of 15 years, running in the containment area and running with trimmed motorcycle/moped. In view of the many youth cases, the government has chosen to impose a double dot tax on probationary drivers. This means, in practice, that the driver card is broken after two rule breaks. Per mille running is a major challenge among young people. Over 90 pst. However, young drivers say that they could never have intended to drive a car when they are affected. As a general response for all young people, alcohol use may appear drastic. In order to gain more knowledge and experience, I will consider establishing an alcolock test project for young drivers. As of February 2012, those entitled to a trial will lose the right to drive if they are running with a low impact, regardless of whether they are affected by alcohol or other intoxication. This will mean that fresh drivers will lose the right if they run under the influence of between 0.2 and 0.5 per million, or the corresponding limits for other drugs. This is a clear signal that rush and run are not compatible. The Ministry of Justice has followed up on this with a proposal for a six-month loss of privileges in such cases. The regulation is now out of range. I expect that these measures will have an impact both on road safety in general and on youth safety in particular. The insurance industry can also play an important role in motivating young drivers to run defensively. Through the installation of a simple behaviour recorder with GPS, running behaviour can be registered and traffic-proof behaviour can be e.g. premiums are deducted from the insurance premium. Such systems exist in several other countries and have been tested, for example: in Carmøy, Rogaland, with good results. The debate on road safety in the last few years has had a strong focus on the setting-up of road traffic control. The government has been working on the construction of both mid pulleys and other mid pulleys. The causes of the accidents are compounded. Therefore, the measures must also be taken. We have to bet on establishing what we can call ‘mental handrails’ in drivers, in order to increase their respect for traffic rules and avoid risk behaviour in traffic. I have high expectations of the impact of the measures that have been introduced. In order to achieve a further reduction in the number of accidents, it may be necessary to consider measures that may help to improve enforcement of traffic rules, even if they may be perceived as controversial. Personal freedom may mean the possibility of carrying out traffic-hazardous offences on the road network. Risky traffic behaviour affects us all, because in a transport-based society that we depend on using the public road network in work and leisure. Summary: Road safety is job no. one in the Ministry of Transport. We now see a positive trend in the number of fatalities and injuries, the lowest since the 1950s, although traffic is multiple. Measures taken will reduce personal freedom, especially targeting young drivers. We're about to evaluate the driver's training. I expect that there will be a further reduction in the number of people killed and seriously injured as a result of the fact that the government is building a much better and safer road and implementing measures against the driver, a special expectation attached to the intensifications recently made in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e772	I would like to thank you for the answer from the Minister for Transport. It shows that we're doing well. Accidents also show that we are doing well in reducing fatal accidents and in damaging traffic. It is reassuring when the Minister for Transport once again assures us that road safety is job no. one, for the government, and for us red-green parts here on the Stortinget. We're doing well, but my question is, Is that enough? That's the question I asked in my interpellation, which I think we should continue to discuss. It's still the way, as I said in my first post, and as the Minister for Transport repeated, that youth is the most unfortunate group in traffic. They make up about 25 pst. Of killed, but stands for only 7 pst. of traffic. In fact, young men die as drivers, while young women die as boys' passengers. The typical youth accident occurs during the weekend. The driver is an inexperienced man, and in several cases the speed is very high. During the six-year period 2005–2010, 20 girls aged 15–19 years have died as car passengers. They died in a total of 18 accidents. Only in two of the accidents was one woman behind the wheel – 16 of the drivers were young men. In twelve of the accidents, the driver was a man under the age of 21. Ten of the drivers survived the accident. Nine of them were men. Seven men have been convicted of negligent rap after the accidents. In addition, another male driver may be charged with a car rap. It's a serious situation. I think it's particularly serious when it's the way we talk about our kids. That is why I am pleased with an action that we know has been initiated by Safer Traffic, which is called the ‘Traffic Action of the Girls’. Because what we haven't talked about yet in the case of young boys is that we know that there's something that works on young boys, that's what the girls say. When the girls are passengers and say, "Listen, now we want you to drive slower and more safely," the boys do it. Therefore, measures such as the ‘traffic action of the girls’ are very important. The fight against crime has proved to be a good method of concentrating efforts on clearer defined groups. Whether there will be parallel effects by acting in the same way for some groups that are particularly vulnerable to traffic is a question to be asked. I want an open debate on both my proposals and other proposals. The point must be to bring down the numbers of accidents. I have already noticed that launching controversial measures is a risk sport. I have never received as many text messages and e-mails in my life as I have already received so briefly today. It's strange that the negative comes from men, perhaps especially young men, while the positive reactions have come from women.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e787	That the number of traffic fatalities is falling, and that the number of young people killed by traffic is falling, is joyous. But as long as there is more than one traffic death per year, we still have to ask the question, Do we do enough? We still have to discuss new proposals. We also need to discuss the experience of the measures taken. I think it is important that road safety work should be developed on the basis of risk analysis and in-depth analysis, evaluation of actions carried out and results from research and distribution work. That's a good base to have. We have now implemented several measures in a short time, i.e. new dot tax from 1 July, measures in the case of noise, from 1 February and increased controls. I have expectations of those measures. In addition, we need to make the effort to put in place practical measures. It may well be that, among Bratli's proposals, the measures that are difficult to put into practice are: how are they to be controlled and followed up? I also have great faith in the local commitment and responsibility that we see more and more. The Hallingdal Council itself took an initiative on the basis of the large number of o'clocks in Hallingdal. They found some specific responses to risk groups and to responses on the road. For example, they bathed themselves. on route ATK. We have the Ringcase Project. We have the "Run for life" project. It is also, as Susanne Bratli says, desperately important with special measures directed at young men, but also girls. There's the campaign 'From now on!' good to show. I would like him to be followed up in more contexts than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e794	I would first like to thank the interpellant. What's incredibly important here is that we don't have anyone to lose. I think, as the interpellant, that we have to be willing to be a little bit tough. I think I sometimes experience in this area, that you have a little naive approach – that you think that only we are running awareness campaigns, people can basically get to do whatever they want, and that's fine, and then we can build ourselves out of the problems. So simple, I don't think reality is. I actually think that sometimes you have to use some unpopular measures to reach some popular goals. In this area, I think it is absolutely indisputable that this must be done. We have had many debates throughout the history of so-called unpopular measures, which today are not called into question: per mille, fines, speed measurement, safety belt use, etc. These types of measures are rarely questioned by the majority today. But it has been necessary, and it is necessary to go one step further. Now we have new technologies, which, hopefully, we can make more use of in road safety. I hope that no one uses the concept of freedom – or abuses the concept of freedom, to put it another way – to define freedom as the freedom to jeopardize their own lives and those of others, because it is in the event of an abuse of the concept. I therefore fully agree with the interpellant that freedom and security are linked. When one then hears who actually dies in traffic as a result of wildman driving, it's extra scary, because it's like those who sit on, it's like the girls. I hope we will avoid having a debate – as we have had in the past – on the UP, controls, spirits at gas stations, resistance to average measurements, etc., which has come from the Progress Party in particular. I do not think it belongs in this debate. It's a derailment. At least we don't get any closer to the zero vision with any of these types of suggestions. As the Council of State said, we have to admit that rush and speed and lack of use of seat belts are the biggest problems. Alone or in combination, these things constitute over 50 pst. in the case of fatal accidents, the introduction of measures. Perhaps we also need to look at even tougher instruments for all drivers and not just young people. But I think it's right to have an extra focus on the kids, when you look at the statistics and see how unhappy that group is. I don't think we can build ourselves out of all the problems. That's why I thought it was very nice when the Council of State said it about having ‘mental handrails’, because it's important. We are going to build pitfalls, and we are going to build pitfalls, but we also need to build mental pitfalls, we need to have awareness campaigns. Training is important, but in this area sanctions are also important, with controls and ensuring that things are followed up. So it's important, as the interpellant says, that we might have to take some more steps to restrict the freedom of the individual driver. I have one point that I can't quite understand, but hopefully we can do that quickly, that's, that one doesn't get the dots on the lack of seatbelt use. It's a strange construction when you see how important seat belt use is, and how much other one gets dots for. So I hope we can speed it up, that we get it in place, because it's important that people use belt, and use a non-belt, I think it's going to sweat really, both in terms of fines and of dot load. I am very pleased that the Council of States is open to action. I don't think we're doing enough, I think we have to be a little bit tougher in the pinch and tougher, as the interpellant also means, and I think we have to have an open mind for most suggestions in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e817	It's an important topic. Norway has a road safety problem. Although this year appears to be a slowdown in relation to a high level of fatal accidents and serious accidents in traffic, Norway is more than a long way from the zero vision. In my own home country, Hordaland, the situation is particularly worrying. We still have a high number of fatal accidents, and we don't have the same marked decline this year as other states do. In addition, Hordaland has a dangerous path, with many deaths, namely E16. Of course, we must take the work on road safety very seriously. A number of different measures are needed to reduce fatal accidents and serious road accidents. However, there is reason to recall that most road users generally behave well in traffic and follow traffic rules. Most people use safety equipment, and they are not affected by drugs. In addition, most speed limits respect or break only marginally. In serious accidents, there is an over-representation of drivers who drive too fast, who are drug addicts or who do not use safety equipment, but there is reason to point out that many young men between the ages of 18 and 24 actually drive properly and act responsibly. Nevertheless, it is important to find good measures where action is needed, it is important to find action that works, and it is possible to be both tough and wise. In its report No. 15, from March this year, looking at so-called high-risk groups in road traffic. In the light of today’s interpellation, it is important to note that there are more such groups than young male drivers. The report of the Directorate of Road refers to older drivers, motorcyclists, drug users, immigrants with a non-Western background and – precisely – young drivers. Young people between the ages of 18 and 24 are the most vulnerable group in traffic. The report of the Directorate-General for Roads includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘There is a need for more knowledge of accident patterns and traffic behaviour for young male drivers and how the group can be affected.’ So we need to get more knowledge before we come up with tough measures. On page 13 of the report, there is further mention of control and restrictions: ‘The most extreme group of risktakers is difficult to reach. One way to reach both vulnerable young people and the most speedy young drivers is better follow-up with combinations of punishment and rehabilitation courses when they have committed adultery.’ One year ago, in the media, there was a great deal of focus on what I would call the ‘great death riddle’, that is, in Norway, much more young people in this age group lose their lives than in Sweden. Researchers and road authorities did not believe anything about the big difference and could not respond to the reason for it at the time. I still don't think they can do it completely, but it pointed out some relationships, among other things. at the car park. The Swedes have newer and safer cars. Swedish youth drives safe cars, Norwegian youth drives old cars with poor safety. A high one-off charge provides high car prices in Norway. There is a tax on road safety, on safe cars, which we should look at, and which we should primarily reduce, as the Progress Party has often pointed out. The road standard – the Swedish have better road standard, not least more motorway and much more physical middle parts. Deaths among young people in Norway are, to a large extent, accidents at meetings and outings. Safety belt use was also pointed out. The Swedes are a little bit neater than us to wear a seat belt. The government has increased the dot load from 1 July this year. The party of progress was and is skeptical of this. We point to an alternative especially for this age group that we have as a debate topic here, young male drivers between 18 and 24 years of age – instead of increasing dot loads have mandatory additional training that provides special insight into the consequences of driving at too high speed, driving without a seat belt and driving in a drug-induced condition. This will create a mental handrail. There are also measures that can be practised. This is an additional training for those who have demonstrated by control that they obviously need additional training. There should be additional training that can be carried out in cooperation with road safety halls. There should be training for thought. Changing the attitude of road safety among road users is one of the important tasks of road safety centres. However, the State contribution to road safety must also be increased and not reduced within the framework of State resources. On the other hand, the important general measures are better roads and cheaper safe cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e838	I think it is an affordable initiative that the representative Bratli brings to Stortinget by putting today's topic on the agenda. It is important in relation to road safety, and it is also important to have a debate on what instruments work, in order to really manage to reach the zero-kill vision on the road. I would also like to give good words back to the Council of States, which I noticed in a commendable way nuances the possibilities and the opportunity to look at some of the measures contained in the Bratli proposal – that they are not necessarily realistic, and that not all young men are necessarily cut over a comb. However, I am amazed at the focus and individual measures that the interpellant has and addresses. From the right, it's discrimination, it's discrimination, based on sex and age. From our point of view, it is reprehensible. I also see that this is going to be another diversion from the government parties, with a lack of follow-up to the national transport plan, which is already more than 2 billion. kr as originally intended in the transport plan. What is the focus of the interpellant is good in terms of road safety. I can absolutely recommend the Right Road Safety Plan, which we have made recently, based on embracing everything that goes on the running, the nature of the road and also the vehicle. However, some of the suggestions that the interpellant makes affect a large group of young men who have taken a long time of training, who run sensibly, who depend on driving in their job, in their work, and possibly in school. So many start working in the car while it is still dark. The inter-pellant name is the group 18-24 years old. Even in this group, there are small children's fathers who, from this point of view, the interpellant wants to debate, i.e. can't bring children into the kindergarten in parts of the year where the wintering and the darkness are close across the country. So the small passenger is not wanted and cannot be transported by the father to the kindergarten either. There are also very many of the young people who drive newspapers at night, who use a car – is it the way Mom should be? New technological gains in the car, like alcohol locks, are a good technology that should definitely be discussed. Whether it is those who produce the cars, who should have this as a requirement when the car is designed – we have not yet arrived. Young men do not necessarily have their own cars, and that means that alcoholics are to be established in their mother’s or father’s car, and they cannot necessarily be switched off when they are over 24 years of age, which often applies to their parents. The hard facts, not the research that the interpellant uses, suggest that it's between 80 and 90 pst. of the fatal accidents which have occurred in the event of a meeting. Thus, young men aged 18 to 24 have to be stopped by drastic measures. From our perspective, this becomes a one-sided focus on the driver. Once again, it will be an evasive manoeuvre and that you do not discuss the nature of the road or the condition of the car. In the Right Alternative Budget, we're now going to add up to three times more pitfalls than the government adds up to. We have to put these meeting accidents to life. We continue to meet awareness campaigns – keeping speed limits, Norwegian law not only is indicative, but that it applies, and to establish a further good driving culture. In the Right Alternative Budget, we're going to add 800 million. more on road safety measures, which are also, of course, linked to pitfalls. But it's also important to increase the wreckage, so that we get rid of the wreckage. From our point of view, taking out an individual group, linked to young men, in relation to age, with some measures with which the interpellant intends to set up pilot schemes, becomes discriminatory. There will be discrimination only in view of a group of young men, who, after all, drive mainly beautiful and neat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e855	I would also like to thank the interpellant, both for a very competent job and for being impatient. I think there's a reason for that. An OECD study was launched in November 2009. She was relatively shattering for Norway just when it was about traffic death among 18-, 19- and 20-year-olds in Norway. Relatively, among the 28 countries involved in the OECD study, Norway entered 27th place. It's a paradox that when Norway is one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to road safety, we're just going to get out of the younger ones. It shows that we're forced to have a special focus on it. In countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Spain and the United States, 18–20 year-olds do not make up as much of the traffic fatalities as in Norway. So the question is, what do we do with this? Traffic researcher Rune Elvik was present at a seminar where the Council of State was present. There he said, among other things. that it is almost impossible to reduce young men’s overrepresentation in road accidents. Then he presented evidence that driving training with smooth driving and dark driving has had a negative impact on accident statistics among the youngest. He also provided figures that said that the accident risk is 16 times higher for boys between 18 and 20 years of age than among the safest drivers. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State and the interpellant have a much more offensive attitude to believe that we can do something about this. I would like to point out some of the measures that have come there. One is dot load. I'm driving the government's clear tightening, tightening, into the younger groups. Then there's driver training. Here, the interpellant points to new actions. I don't know, but I think that the focus must also be directed towards more individualization in the training. This is what we see in general training, and it must also be done in this area. Then comes the controversial measures: speed lock, alcohol locks. I think these are measures we're forced to look at, and the council says it's hard to put them out in life. What I'm thinking, which is natural in the light of this debate, is that we get a clearer explanation of what the problems are about this. If I go back to Rune Elvik, he has seen this on the head by saying the following: It is forbidden to drive too fast, so there is no good argument against a speed limit – the only thing is that you should be allowed to do something illegal. It's a very strong point formula, which I don't necessarily agree with, because we know that there are arguments against it as well. But I think that this means of working is what we need to get a wider distribution of, and I hope that the Council of State will accept that challenge, because when we raise these kinds of questions, we meet a lot of arguments against which I would like to have a clearer answer, before we conclude. We've had a debate about smoking among young people. When we've looked at the radical change we've had in both the hold and the use of smoking, I also think there are opportunities to make a big change when it comes to both holding and driving patterns among young people. But we're forced to use the tools that we think are necessary. Here's a good tool that I think should be appreciated more carefully. In general, when I get e-mails from young women and they are positive, I often see it as positive. That's what the interpellant can bring with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e870	Traffic safety is about different things. It is a matter of reducing the potential for heavy damage and killing in traffic. It is also about people feeling safe in traffic – that they should not use forces to fear their own or close family life. In the current national transport plan, the stage objective is to reduce the number of people killed or seriously injured by at least one third by 2020. The red-green government has strengthened its efforts for a safer way. We've increased the permissions a lot, we've built miles of new walking and cycling roads, we've set up mid-driving devices, and we're fixing the bad path with dangerous swings. Meetings are the type of accident that takes most lives in road traffic. That's why you can set up a trump and tag with what you might call a "bracketed space stripper" between the fields, a good action. A good example from my own state, More and Romesdal, is that these days there will be pitfalls on the entrance road to Ålesund, which is the busiest section in the county. Of course, we should continue this effort in a better way. At the same time, it is not possible to get away from the fact that the behaviour of drivers has much to say to avoid accidents, as has been said here. I read a quote that was like this: most people failed to find traffic police in the cars, sitting behind the wheel. Unfortunately, most serious accidents occur with boys between 18 and 24 years behind the wheel. In that case, it is not possible to blame only on the wrong path, which is sometimes made aware of the fact that the Progress Party and partly the Right do, and ignore the connection between running style and the Occurrence. Today’s debate on interpellence on road safety is just about this, what attitudes and not least what actions we find among some groups of drivers. I am stuttering the grip we have done when we have introduced route automatic traffic control and tightening the dot load system. It is also important to have clear limits on running under the influence of drugs other than alcohol and to use so-called drug meters on a line with today’s alcometer. I also think it's important to look at the effect of setting conditions for male young drivers when they get a driver card. However, it is problematic to happen all over one comb. Especially in the districts, it could have unintended negative consequences if we limit when young drivers can run, if they can carry passengers, etc. It can simply take away the possibility of both taking training and getting a job. This is how it is very important that actions we implement are well thought out. The goal must be a determined effort against those who may call the worst – those who run irresponsibly without caring for the health and life of others. I share my thoughts about many of the possible measures she mentioned in her article. In particular, I think it is with driver training adapted to the individual. There's no doubt that there's a big difference between how mature young drivers are. Some may be distinguished and responsible behind the steering wheel, while others simply shouldn't be out on the roads. If it's possible to test their maturity, those who are under driver training, I don't know, but I think it's possible to capture it. To the extent possible, an actual follow-up should follow-up. I don't think it is up to me to set more strict terms to some, as mentioned. Worse still, all 18-year-olds are given strict terms for the driver's card. Nevertheless, I do not reject the idea of specific conditions during a transitional period for young human drivers. Perhaps it's also a good idea – perhaps a better idea – with closer follow-up the first two years after one gets a driver card. Follow-up courses, both theoretical and practical on-road, may be useful. Now we let young drivers out alone in traffic and hope for the best, without actually doing so much afterwards. The Minister of Transport refers to the introduction of a pilot project with alcolocks for young drivers. This is positive, but I wonder how this can be implemented in practice when we know that some young drivers often depend on the use of cars – not only on parents, but also on others. It might be interesting to put your right hand a little bit, maybe later. Premiering road safety behaviour in line with what some other countries have, may also be relevant, but we need to remember the privacy issue if a GPS registration becomes extensive. Young people also have the right to privacy. In any case, the sum total is important for us to take a different approach to each other. When I problematize some of the outlined measures, it does not mean that I reject them. It should be possible to find a golden middle way where measures are not disproportionately strict for all, but targeted measures that save lives. It's important to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e904	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic, namely road safety. Now it's far out in the debate, and a lot has been said. The reason why I take the floor is that the Left, both when we were dealing with transport ministers, and in the previous period, when we had the Vice-Chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee, has focused heavily on road safety, and I have said several times that it is perhaps the most important thing we as transport politicians can do. For this reason, the Left presented a 10-point plan for improving road safety in 2008, following the alarming rise in that particular period of time. 40 pst. more people were killed in traffic compared to the previous year. The fact that the numbers are now descending, as the interpellant and the state council say, is, of course, joyous, but it's a long way to go to the zero vision, which is often pointed out in many celebrations. The 10-point plan presented by the Left in 2008 was based on input from a number of organisations, youth, traffic schools and politicians with a long history of transport. On the left, the following points were outlined at the time: 1st@item: inlistbox We must have more offensive attitude campaigns with stronger instruments. The attitudes need to be changed. 2nd@item: inlistbox We need more visible police on the roads. 3rd@item: inlistbox We have to reduce the speed limit at accident points. 4th@item: inlistbox We need to have increased bets on the physical middle parts. It's going too slowly as it is now. 5th@item: inlistbox We need to have better quality of driving training. We get feedback from many traffic school drivers who say there are many unprofessional actors out there. Driving schools should indicate the percentage of driving and focus more on risk drivers. 6th@item: inlistbox We need to involve young people more actively in attitude work. 7th@item: inlistbox We need to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision to ensure the quality of the roads. The Left and Right supported that proposal in 2006/2007. Today, the Road Administration operates quality assurance in its own organisation. We think that's wrong. Eight. We need to focus more on road safety work – both politicians in government and here on the Stortinget. That is why it is good, the debate that is here today. 9th@item: inlistbox Maintenance work must be given equal attention and resources to new major projects. We are still reading, also in today's Evening Post, examples of road standards that do not keep track. 10th@item: inlistbox We have to get more goods onto the railway and fewer large trailers on our roads. There it goes too slowly, as the left sees it. In conclusion, I hope the Council of State will at least take along some, if not all, of the ten points of the Left in its road safety work, for they are, as I see it, as current today as they were in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e946	The Progress Party is very positive both in attitude-building work and in the ability of our driving schools to provide the best possible education, and we are in favour of a large number of measures in the field of traffic safety. But when we talk about how to implement a dot load that actually benefits the driver and traffic, it has to be the goal of getting a better driver, a safer traffic. Then mandatory additional training should actually be part of such a thing. We can't just talk punishment when we want safer roads. Then schooling is a very important part of it. I have to say that when the interpellant decides to prohibit the age group 18-24 from running after the dawn of darkness, it is both discriminatory and, I will also dare to claim, impracticable. Everyone understands that every driver has a great responsibility in terms of his role in traffic. Everyone's pointed it out. Every single person who's made posts has pointed it out, and it's true. This is also a system debate, because where is the responsibility that we want to place? Everyone agrees that the driver has a great responsibility, but we also have a responsibility as a system and as politicians. In a survey that employs Sweden and Norway, it appears that where Sweden has 10 injuries in the 18-24 age group, Norway has 13. What comes of Norway having 30 pst. more damage in this age group than in Sweden? Could it have anything to do with the device of our system? Let's take the car park. You don't have a one-time charge on a car in Sweden. The replacement of the car park, which happens faster in Sweden, can be one of the reasons for the 30 pst. the difference? So you have to ask yourself, what age group is that that has a good economy? What age group is the poor economy? Is it not true that the 18–24 age group very often does not have a good economy? How does our charging system work in Norway for young people buying a car? Very often it ends up with what is our future, just having the economy to buy a very uncertain car. If we can do something with that piece, it'll be incredibly favorable. If we compare the road standard in Norway and the road standard in Sweden, we see that in Sweden, over time, there have been many more motorways, many more middle parts, and there is a completely different safety zone both in terms of overview and whether a driver's fault should occur. Should you be willing to do something about it? Because we have to assume that the Norwegian youth is not born with a worse starting point than the Swedish one? There is little cultural doubt that Norway invented the cheese grove, and Sweden invented the safety belt. They put Volvo in place, and they put SAAB in place. They have implemented a completely different cultural understanding of both having a car industry and transferring it to traffic safety. I want to say one thing: if there is anything this hall can contribute, it is actually removing one-off charges and building far safer roads than what we have done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e959	It's a very important debate that interpellant travels. Despite the fact that we are now seeing a very positive trend in traffic deaths in 2011 — so far no killed children under the age of six, there are far fewer killed young people between the ages of 18 and 24, the number has fallen from 33 last year to 23 this year — it is still the case that there are too many, and that young people are overrepresented. I would like to say, among other things. to the representative, Mr Schou, and others from the opposition who have been up here, that the reduction in the number of deaths shows that the red-green majority must have done something right. That's a result that doesn't come of itself. It's about using more traffic now than any other country in the Nordic region. It is a matter of prioritising building more middle parts and having more middle parts measures than one has had in Norway in the past. It's about roads getting safer, it's about giving priority to road safety and awareness-raising. But we still have major road safety challenges. I fully agree with the interpellant that we need to take the number of accidents involving young people seriously, because young people are so sadly overrepresented in statistics. We must also dry up to take a prejudice-free debate. I fully agree with the chairman of the committee, Hareide, that we all too often experience that part of these debates are being cancelled very quickly. As both the interpellant and the state councils were involved, we know a lot about the causes of youth accidents. We know that high speed is one of the main reasons. High speed is a contributing cause of half of the fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. We don't need a higher speed limit. What we need is a greater effort to get all of us to keep the speed limit we have. Nevertheless, we repeatedly see that the Right Party and the Advance Party will increase the speed limit. The facts from the State Road Service show that 5 pst. increasing the average speed on one route gives 25 pst. increase in kills and 10 pst. increase in all accidents. If everyone kept the speed limit, the number of fatalities in traffic would go down by a quarter. The most effective means of controlling speed are several roadside checks. That's why it's been important for the red-green majority to strengthen the UP. Fredriksen said that the Progress Party is in favour of measures that strengthen road safety. Then it's so sad that the Progress Party is against most of the measures that we know to work. For example, the Progress Party went into its 100-day plan to cut the appropriations for the UP. Another measure against which the Progress Party and the Right, and Truls Fyhn, are, is the introduction of so-called distance ATK, despite experience showing that it will reduce the number of deaths by 30 pst. We have seen examples of some tunnels in particular being exposed to so-called speed play for young people. These are just some of the distances where we're considering the introduction of the route ATK, which is likely to have a positive impact on the speed game and on the accidents, which we've seen too many of in part of these tunnels. Over the years, quite a number of unprofessional proposals from the Progress Party have been presented, such as: alcohol sales at refuelling stations. Fortunately, we experience that most people have gone against them. However, we are once again experiencing that the Progress Party today argues against increasing the burden on young people – again against an action that will have a positive impact on road safety. I agree with the inter-pellant that we need to deal with the youth accidents, we need tough measures. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State signals that she will assess a pilot project with alcolocks for young drivers. There will be a tough action, and it will be interesting to look at the effect of such a measure to reduce the number of accidents in traffic. That's how we're going to get results, and if we're going to do something about one of the biggest challenges we're going to have with road safety measures, we're going to have to dry up the grips and measures that we know will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e976	We have no one to lose – regardless of age – so the work that needs to be done and done to bring down the accidents is valuable and important to continue working with. Road standards, safe cars and awareness campaigns are important. The road safety work is of course also important and one of the most important things for me. There's really not just talking about money here, but about the will to do something. If we have the will to do something about traffic safety, we also have the money to do it. That's why it's very strange for me to stand here and hear that we talk about this repeatedly, when we know that it's just to put in action. We have to have multiple four-field roads, several middle parts -- we know that to reduce the number of accidents. Then it applies not only to these young drivers, but to all of us. What comes out in the interpellation debate here is that we're all going to cut over a comb. I think that's pretty unfair. I wonder at one thing: if we are to have arrangements for young men, do we also apply to young women – or has the Labour Party thought that we should sex this, so that it does not apply to young women, but only to young men? In which cars are speed barriers and alcolocks to be fitted? We know that a lot of kids don't have a car by themselves. They use their parents' cars, their friends' cars, or their grandparents' cars. If a speed limit is inserted into all the cars, it's going to be a completely different proposal than what we're talking about here. It is also quite difficult if you have put a traffic jam in a car, when you are going abroad. In the rest of the world, roads are better than those we have in Norway, and also other speed limits. That is, we might be a traffic hazard abroad. Then for collective punishment. I'm totally against it. Mandatory additional training for those who demonstrate that they cannot keep the speed limits – yes, it is quite important. As far as the fall in accidents in 2011 is concerned, it is not something we can know about yet. Then we have to wait to draw such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e991	I would like to take this opportunity first to thank you for the debate. In fact, there was a slightly different debate than I thought, but we were able to stay up like this from the trenches. At least we all showed that we agreed on the goal, and that we are all concerned with reducing the number of traffic accidents among young people and among young men. So the consensus stops somewhere, of course, but just to say it all first and be very clear on it: point number. 1 to continue to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, even in the case of young people, is doing more of what we're already doing. I also mentioned that in my post, but just to remove all doubts: building middle parts, building four-field roads, building better roads, more street lights, lowering speed limits, stretching ATK – all the measures we are already doing, that work, we need to do more of that. So implementing the current national transport plan and continuing with an even more ambitious national transport plan for the next period will be a very important instrument. It must be at the bottom. That's point number. 2: Are we going to do something more about those groups that we think need extra measures, which are extra accidents? When it's the case that research tells us that young drivers, especially boys, are exposed to traffic because the area of the brain where the judgment is sitting is not fully developed until 25 years old, there's a knowledge we have to take on, and then we have to discuss what action we're going to take. When I then sketch some measures that the researchers say will work, all the counter performances come on the table, as expected. Now it is such that the gradual extension of the entitlement, as it is called, or graduated driving licences, is actually practised in several countries: in Canada, for example. and in several states in the United States. So we know from experience that it can work. But I understand the counter-conceptions, and I understand that it's not easy. We also know that there are speeds, rushes and the lack of use of seat belts that are contributing to an incredible number of youth accidents. Then, of course, speed locks and alcolocks will work. After all, I think the chairman of the committee, Mr Hareides, from Rune Elvik, was striking. Putting in a speed limit that means you can't break the law should not be so hard at all. But it is very positive that the Minister of Transport signals that we can continue a discussion, among other things. about alcohol locks. Finally, I must say that we must continue this discussion. It shouldn't be that when we're done today, we put this in the drawer. We need to focus on reducing the number of people killed and injured in traffic in general, but especially in the case of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1004	A debate that gives it both the opportunity to clarify, if there are so-called truths that have been established, and the possibility of discussing new measures. Let me just say to the representative Fredriksen that according to our figures by date when it concerns the number of fatalities in traffic – the reduction we are now seeing – we are tangential to Sweden. And that's also how we spend 12 billion a year. kr more on the road than Sweden. So he doesn't have to go around with the full size of the complex in relation to Sweden that he has opened up. So some comments about speed. There are devices for retrofitting that contain warnings when speed limits are exceeded – the clock is not on with me either, President, so I like to talk for a long time – ISA, Intelligent Speed Adaption. The road authority of the State has an agreement with the supplier of these for use in own cars. The price is approx. NOK 4000. In addition, it is built into many navigation systems, where drivers are alerted with sound. These are corresponding solutions also as applications for mobile phones, and in that area we are talking about low cost. There are also ISA systems that override the driver's ability to exceed the speed limit. The maximum speed will then be consistent with the currently selected speed limit. As of today, it is up to the driver to turn on and off. There are still several car models available for this system. When it comes to a clean barrier, that is to say, a top speed barrier, it's the one on all heavy transport today. It is also partially retrofitted. Today there are already peak speed barriers on many car models. But she's seen far above the Norwegian speed limit level. It is possible to adjust/programme it to a requested Norwegian level. Several and more car manufacturers now deliver a programmable ignition key where car owners can program and determine the top speed of any loan of the car to e.g. son or daughter. So there are now formal challenges of a formal nature related to the implementation of the traffic jam and the ISA as a general requirement for the Norwegian car park. On the other hand, there is greater freedom of action in the case of own sanctioning systems and any restrictions relating to the entitlement of individual groups. That's what we've been using when it comes to measures against young drivers, and we can also go along that path. So it's a crossroads that while the use of the seat belt is now actually over 90 pst. and is rising, has 43 pst. of the deaths in the period 2005-2009 not used belt. That makes us more aware here, especially among young drivers. In addition, the traffic researcher Dagfinn Moe is the first to launch the term ‘mental railings’. We have to move on to that. It is a combination of measures to the driver, it is better and safer, and it is stronger to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1023	The President will stress that this exclamation of speaking time will not become a permanent practice. But that was interesting to hear. The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1039	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1055	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1071	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1087	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1103	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1111	We're going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1490	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1501	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1736	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1746	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1756	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1764	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1772	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1780	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1788	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-15.ana.ud2552e1923	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
