ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e90	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Tore Nordtun, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Troms County, Hilde Anita Nyvoll, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e118	Since 1945 and up to now, about 120,000 Norwegian soldiers have participated in a total of more than 40 international military operations, most of them under the auspices of the United Nations. There is a high number in relation to the population in Norway and compared to other countries. Norwegian soldiers are currently involved in operations, including: in Afghanistan, Libya, Sudan, the Balkans and the Middle East. Norway’s participation in international operations is an important contribution to creating greater stability in conflict areas. Norwegian forces also contribute to providing people with security and security and humanitarian aid. Stability and security are a prerequisite for national and regional development and an important basis for peace. Participation in international operations therefore also helps to stabilise the safety situation globally and here in Norway. Security policy conditions worldwide have an impact on Norway through, inter alia: trade and commercial interests. It is therefore also in our national interest that Norwegian defence contributes to international peace and security by participating in international operations. However, in order for Norway to participate in military foreign operations, Norwegian soldiers must be willing to engage in demanding and risky missions. It always poses a risk to the lives and health of individuals. We know that Norwegian soldiers have died, among others. in Lebanon, in the Balkans and in Afghanistan. In the opinion of the Presidency, the Stortinget should recognise and honor the Norwegian soldiers who, with their lives, have contributed to international peace and security through participation in foreign operations. In the past, the Presidency has taken initiative against the government in view of participation in the bearer ceremony when soldiers who have lost their lives in foreign operations are brought home. The Presidency has also signaled that it will be involved in the annual national marking of the day of release and National Veteran Day on 8 May and the Defence Memorial on the first Sunday of November each year. The Presidency will also propose that a memorial plaque be set up in the Storing Building to honor those who have fallen under military missions abroad in service to Norway. The memory plate should be placed in relation to the current site of the staging building above the falsities of World War I and II. The Presidency suggests that the memory plate does not mention the name or specific international mission. It is also proposed that the Presidency be given the responsibility to assess the detailed design of the plaque.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e133	The representative of Korsberg has presented this matter in a very good way. I would also like to say that I am very happy that we have received this matter for treatment here today. As a Lebanon veteran, this is a matter I have been involved in, and on March 29th this year I also sent a letter to the presidency that we should get a memorial in the Storting over those who have lost their lives as a result of military missions abroad on behalf of Norway. In connection with this, I want to give honor to a united presidency, both because they have dealt with this matter quickly, and of course not least because they have a positive attitude in the matter. In my nearly ten years as a growth representative, I believe this is one of the most important things that we have dealt with in this Chamber. Of course, this is not a big case measured in dollars, but it is an important and correct recognition of the efforts made by Norwegian women and men on military missions abroad on behalf of Norway. We must not forget that there is a magnificence and government sending men and women on military missions abroad, and then it is also a matter of self-order that a plaque is set up in our National Assembly for those who have given the greatest of all, namely their own life in their efforts for Norway. This year, 66 years have passed since Nazi Germany surrendered unconditionally and the Second World War was over in Europe. The good had won over the evil. Since that day, May 8, 1945, it has not had our war in Norway. But that does not mean that it is 66 years since Norwegian soldiers, women and men, have been at war for Norway. Since the other World War I, which was also mentioned by the representative of Korsberg, ended, 120,000 Northmen have served in more than 40 different foreign operations and struggle in other parts of the world against the evil and for the values upon which our nation is built, such as freedom and democracy. These are basically conflicts and wars in which Norway is not involved, but in the same way that the Americans helped us to bring down the chaos and evil here in Europe during the Second World War, so it is our hunch that the evil must be fought down long before he has direct consequences for Norway. Freedom and democracy are not something given to us forever, they must be defended. The evil must be fought all over the world before it grows and becomes a threat to world peace. That is why the efforts of Norwegian soldiers, under the mandate of Norway, on behalf of the magnificence and government, today in other parts of the world, are decisive for Norway to remain a peaceful, free and democratic country. The vast majority of service providers abroad have been strengthened by it, but for some, unfortunately, foreign efforts have cost a great deal. Too many have been sent home in the coffin – this year at the latest – and it is unfortunately naive to believe that there are no more coffins coming home from foreign missions in time. In addition, many return to Norway with physical and mental damage and memory that is difficult to live with, and the high suicide rates among veterans unfortunately confirm. I hope, therefore, that a plaque on the Great Council of Hidden Soldiers in Foreign Service not only helps us to remember those who never come home alive, but also helps us to remember all those who die in their fight, in their struggle, long after they come home. In addition, I hope that a memory plate in this house will also help to enhance the recognition of all those who have served and are also currently serving abroad for Norway and for the values on which people-run nations are built. My guess is that the efforts of our veterans for Norway have not been given that recognition and respect from the community that the veterans have enjoyed. Hopefully, the decision that is being taken here today will correct some of that. Nevertheless, a positive decision in this matter will be an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e152	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e170	Two years ago, the military conflict in Sri Lanka had a final outcome. The Civil War gave a military victory for the government. Sri Lanka has a population of over 21 million, with 74 pst. single readers and 18 pst. Tamils. There are enormous human suffering, considerable damage to the economy, a ruined tourism industry and an environment that has suffered significantly as a result of the civil war. According to the United Nations, there has been a place between 80,000 and 100,000 killed in the face of this conflict, including at least 7,000 civilian Tamils in the last five months of the war. Today, Tamil areas are considered to be occupied — or at least appear to be occupied. Culture in these areas goes from Tamil to Sinhala, burial sites have become and become destroyed, Tamil houses of God — including churches and mosques — have in several cases been converted into Buddhist temples. I do not want to make a historical presentation of the conflict with this interpellation, because the conflict is going back a long way. But I want to focus on the final phase of the war, on the United Nations report that came at the end of March this year, on the absolutely essential issue of bringing those responsible for war crimes to justice, and not least focusing on what Norway can contribute. First a few words about war crimes. There is a criminal offence under international laws, in the form of violations of laws and practices for warfare. The actions may have been carried out against conflicted civilians in occupied areas or against property in occupied areas. The term refers, inter alia, to, but is not limited to, murder or mistreatment of prisoners of war or civilians, looting or arbitrary destruction of property, destruction without military cause. For example: mass murder during wartime may be part of the act classified as a war crime, while other parts fall under the more general term crime against humanity. In 2002, the International Criminal Court was established in The Hague. It has its jurisdiction in matters that deal with crimes against humanity through the Roma states, and it has a definition that was like this: ‘In relation to these Statutes, ‘crime against humanity’ means any of the following acts when carried out as part of a comprehensive and systematic attack aimed at the knowledge of the civilian population: 1. Murder 2. Extinction 3. Slave Team 4. Deportation or forced transfer 5. Prison or other serious interference with physical freedom in violation of fundamental rules of international law 6. Torture 7. Rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilisation or any other form of sexual violence of comparable seriousness 8. Persecution of an identifiable group or a collective based on political, racial, national, ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual reasons 9. Disposal under coercion 10. Apartheid 11. Other inhuman acts of a similar nature which cause severe suffering or serious damage to the body or to mental or physical health’» On the other hand, genocide is mentioned in the UN Convention of 9 December 1948 on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of genocide. Here, genocide is defined as: ‘any of the following acts which have been committed with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such: (a) killing members of the group; (b) causing serious physical or physical harm to members of the group; (c) deliberately subjecting the group to living conditions aimed at causing its physical destruction in whole or in part; (d) imposing measures aimed at preventing within the group births; (e) transferring children from the group to another group with power.’; This year, 31 March, the United Nations Panel of Experts on Accountability in Sri Lanka presented its report. It is a factual and critical report. The Sri Lankan government said it was conducting a humanitarian operation aimed at no civilian loss, but this report is in stark contrast to the rhetorical authorities of Sri Lanka. The Panel presents likely allegations of a number of violations of international law and international law on both sides, several of them so gross that they are defined as war crimes and crimes against humanity. The report goes so far as to say that the entire warfare represents a powerful attack on the entire concept of international law, which is designed to protect individuals and their rights in war and peace. Channel 4 News has recently published a video showing naked people behind the scenes who are being Summarily killed – which is supposed to take place right after the military victor in Vanni. The U.N. says this is a likely and real video. Let me take a few examples of what the report will do. Between September 2008 and May 2009, rather than 19 May 2009, the Sri Lankan army moved forward in Vanni using considerable artillery to an area full of civilians. As many as 330,000 civilians were trapped in an ever smaller area. This was also the civilians who were held captive by the LTTE. The authorities — the government army — used so-called No Fire Zones to lure civilians into it, but to a significant extent used artillery in the same areas, even if one knew well what the outcome of it would be. The vast majority of civilians killed in the final phase of the war were because of this simple action. The authorities re-used artillery against hospitals in the region. All hospitals in the Vanni area were taken. All of them were taken, most of them a significant number of times. The authorities systematically refused humanitarian aid, and in the final stages of the war several tens of thousands of lives were lost. The authorities subjected victims and survivors to unnecessary suffering when leaving the conflict area. After the war they went very hard towards what they thought and thought could be LTTE members. This did not lead to transparency in the process, and no one else provided their safety. LTTE, for its part, also committed a significant degree of assault, including the use of civilians by creating a humanitarian buffer, killing civilians who tried to escape LTTE control, the use of military equipment related to civilians, the forced recruitment of children, the forced recruitment of workers and the killing of civilians by suicide attacks. There's, as I come back to in my three-minute post, a series of recommendations that are taken into account. I hope we'll have time to get into them. Let me just say in the case of war crimes, it is extremely important that those who have committed war crimes are actually tried and given a verdict. There's a difference between Tamil and Sri Lankan. While nearly all the prominent Tamil leaders are now dead, almost all the prominent leaders from Sri Lanka are still in power positions. This means that there has to be a significant international pressure to get a trial in place. There must be respect for human rights in general in Sri Lanka. There must be some democratic processes that are transparent. We must have a diaspora in Norway and elsewhere that fully want reconciliation and work for the best for Sri Lanka, and not an attempt to start a new armed struggle. Because the war is over. Now it's time to win the peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e262	Thanks to the representative Skovholt Gitmark for an important and relevant question that we have raised in related forms here in the Chamber earlier. I will first briefly present the main lines of Norwegian Sri Lanka policy, and then explain the Norwegian position on the report of the United Nations panel of experts and how Norway will follow the recommendations from there. Two years after the military defeat of the Tamil tigers, LTTE, the parties have not been able to arrive at a political solution in which the interests of minorities have also been safeguarded. President Rajapaksa was re-elected last year, and his coalition of governments also won the parliamentary elections. He was thus strengthened in his mandate to rule Sri Lanka. There are positive developments in the country now. The economy is improving and everyday life on the road to normalisation for the majority of the population, after decades of civil war. The vast majority have been released from the refugee camps. The security situation has improved significantly, and there has been no war or terrorist attack on Sri Lanka in the last two years. The government has started a political process together with the Tamil political party Tamil National Alliance, the largest minority party in the opposition. At the same time, Sri Lanka still seems to be far from being a political solution. Norway has no special role in Sri Lanka today, and I would like to refer here to the debate we had on this topic based on the interplay of Eva Kristin Hansen on 18 March 2010. Over many years, as you know, we have been the initiators of the peace process between the authorities and the LTTE. When the parties to Sri Lanka decided to resume the acts of war, we acknowledged that the basis for our commitment was gone. The end of the war also marked the end of ten years of formal Norwegian involvement in a negotiated political solution. The overall objective of Norwegian Sri Lanka policy remains to contribute to the reconciliation and political resolution of this conflict. Through our long-standing commitment as a facilitator and assistant, we know Sri Lanka well. We focus on good and constructive cooperation with the Sri Lankan government, and Norway and Sri Lanka agree that the time is ripe to normalize relations between countries. Since Sri Lanka is a so-called middle-income country, and since Norway has no advanced role, we are reducing development cooperation with the country. Our development exposure today focuses on reconstruction, reconciliation and economic development, but will therefore gradually be built down in the next few years. The final phase of the war continues to cast shadows on Sri Lanka’s relations with the outside world. Norway supported the establishment of the UN Panel of Experts on Sri Lanka to advise the UN Secretary-General on issues related to the final phase of the war. I am pleased that the content of the report has been made known. Both Sri Lanka and the international community are worthy of the fact that the process is open and credible. The report promotes a number of serious allegations of abuse by both parties to the war, and that these are to be regarded as violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. Sri Lankan authorities are accused of having killed civilians by bombing against areas where civilians were the main victims. They are also accused of having bombed hospitals and other humanitarian institutions, even though they were clearly marked. Claims are made that they refused to send food and necessary medicines to the civilian population. The authorities are also accused of human rights violations outside the conflict zone by the persecution of journalists and oppositionals. The Tamil tigers are accused on their side of having used civilians as shields by refusing them to leave the war zone. Civilians who tried to release shall have been killed. The LTTE is further accused of having deployed military equipment in the vicinity of civilians and of having forced them to be recruited. This also applies to children. In addition, claims of forced labour and killing of civilians are made through suicide operations outside the war zone. The report of the United Nations Panel concludes that the claims are so credible that there is an obligation for Sri Lankan authorities to investigate them. This obligation results from international law. Norway supports the Panel’s recommendations that such independent investigation should be undertaken. A genuine and credible national investigation and prosecution is important for a good reconciliation process in Sri Lanka. We have encouraged the country's government to follow up their international obligations. At an international level, the UN Security Council is responsible for the follow-up to the report. That's right. We assume that the members of the Security Council are conscious of their responsibilities and take the necessary action. The interpellant emphasizes in his question that the time has come to build peace. I agree. Peacebuilding and reconciliation measures are also central to Norway's efforts in Sri Lanka. I am pleased that the report of the United Nations Panel here emphasises concrete measures that can build trust and provide a basis for lasting peace. It is positive that the authorities have implemented development measures in Tamil areas and started a political process with the TNA Party. But then the Sri Lankan government has to make the names of the people they have in their custody known to their families. The relatives must also be notified and handed over death certificates on those killed during the final phase of the war. Persons with an LTTE background in the care of the authorities must either receive fair legal treatment or be released. It is important that the government in the country continues to allow internal refugees to return to their homes by releasing zones that have been closed for security reasons. Let me summarise the Norwegian position on the report before I finally elaborate on how Norway will follow up the recommendations. There are so serious allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity, committed by both sides, that all this must be investigated. According to international law, Sri Lanka is the first to undertake a credible and independent investigation. International responsibility rests on the Security Council. Furthermore, Sri Lanka needs to continue to implement confidence-building measures and to facilitate a policy solution as soon as possible. In the case of Norwegian follow-up, we have already addressed the report’s recommendations with Sri Lankan authorities and called for a credible follow-up. The question has been addressed both at political level and through contacts with relevant officials at work. We've said that the government of Sri Lanka must be responsible for itself and carry out a credible investigation process. Sri Lanka has now established its own reconciliation commission. So far, this Commission has not complied with international standards, although it has created an arena to discuss important issues related to the conflict. In our dialogue with Sri Lanka, we stress that the national process must be credible. We clearly say that the problem of war crimes will remain on the international agenda until the Sri Lankan Government has put in place necessary and credible follow-up. Efforts to find a policy solution must be given higher priority. We have good dialogue with related countries such as the United States, the European Union and the Nordic countries on the follow-up to the serious content of this report. Norway has also joined an EU declaration on the panel’s report. The further follow-up from Norway will follow two tracks: firstly, we will maintain a close dialogue with Sri Lanka. At the same time, and secondly, we will continue the dialogue with like-minded countries. We see that the pressure for an international review will increase if Sri Lanka fails to deliver a credible national process. The pressure should increase if so. In conclusion, I will bring forward the Tamil exile environment that lives in different parts of the world. Some of them live in Norway. This is an engaged group, which makes a significant contribution to our country, and which we are in contact with on developments in Sri Lanka. It is important that the Government of Sri Lanka engages in Tamil exiles, both to cooperate on development measures in Sri Lanka and to avoid radicalisation in the exiled communities. Finally, to a case here that has received a lot of attention over the past few weeks, in the light of media reports that Tamil refugees have been given a stay in Norway, I would say the following: I can confirm that Norway has received Tamils from Sri Lanka after the end of the war. We have evaluated each application against our obligations under the UN Convention on Refugees. Those who have been accommodated have had a need for protection, and have stayed on this basis in our country. This is in line with Norwegian refugee policy and our humanitarian principles. But this is a question where Sri Lanka and Norway do not agree. We have subsequently had a dialogue with the Sri Lankan authorities on this issue and explained our views and made clear the views and criticisms of these authorities. Then I would like to conclude by reassureing the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that the follow-up to the report of the United Nations Panel will be a topic that is high on the agenda when representatives of our two countries meet, and when Norway acts in relevant international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e325	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good answer. There are clear advice coming in the form of four recommendations. There are very serious infringements of international law, which are also reviewed in detail in the report. Now let me focus on the four recommendations. The first one is for research, which is very central. Sri Lankan authorities must immediately launch a genuine investigation — something other than the Commission they have set up — into both the recommendations and lists of the report and other alleged violations of international law and humanitarian law. In addition, the UN Secretary-General must put in place a mechanism to ensure that the Sri Lankan authorities do what I have mentioned above, and that, on a neutral basis, they are also able to investigate what has taken place and to collect and match the information they receive so that it can be used at a later stage. Recommendation number two takes other immediate steps to increase accountability, especially in view of what happened in Vanni, among others. that all the violence of the state must cease, which is perhaps the most important thing. It includes all the organs of the state and all paramilitary groups. We depend on the funeral of the dead, the return of the deceased to a worthy funeral, the issue of a death certificate, the support of all survivors, respect for their culture and tradition, the return of all those who have escaped from their homes, and the provision of assistance to those who have gone away, and to those who need help. Furthermore, in the light of the political situation, it is important that the Sri Lankan authorities immediately revert to their emergency laws, the so-called emergency regulations. It is important that they are changed, so that the so-called Prevention of Terrorism Act now comes into view of what Sri Lanka has committed itself to internationally. In the longer term, it includes, inter alia: that Sri Lanka must have a civil society that is critically at the very heart of the conflict, which includes ethnic national extremism on both sides. There is also a point that goes on at the UN and the importance of the UN now – through the Security Council – going through what has actually happened, and that we now have a meeting at the UN Human Rights Council, where this is being reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e340	The representative spent a lot of time in his main post and in this last post reproducing quite comprehensively from international texts and decisions, and it may be useful to see what is the template and the standard here. It gives me the desire to do the following reflection: The way in which this right is designed is a very fundamental principle, and the custom is that the responsibility for investigation lies with the state. And that's right, as the representative says, and as we state must say, that that responsibility is absolute, and that has to be followed. So it has to be allowed to ask the question, based on experience: how much can we expect? I don't want to help talk down here the expectations of what is a sunny responsibility for Sri Lankan authorities. But I believe that is the basis for saying – in the light of what we have seen in the last two years since the war acts ended, and what else we have seen from the follow-up of international orders by the authorities – that at least we have reason to follow this very closely. The same applies to other conflict areas, where we have seen a similar avoidance of taking that responsibility seriously. I believe that this updates that while we hold the State responsible for doing the investigation – as we have also done after different situations of conflict, among others. in the Middle East – the international community must be able to respond if this responsibility is not followed up. I think everyone sees that there may be a trend in the international community that both the appetite and the interest in following up this diminishes as time passes, if the situation 'normalizes' as it is called. This is a rather terrifying concept sometimes, because normalization basically means that there is little pressure in the conflict on the surface, while the situation of the people suffering from the conflict may not have changed. That is why I want to close this brief article by following up what the representative of Skovholt Gitmark referred to when he referred to the commitments, saying that it is important that the Secretary-General of the United Nations keeps his focus. It is important that the Security Council is conscious of its responsibility. And it is important that the countries of the international community do not resort to short-term convenience by letting this go in the forgetbook, if it happens – as some fear – that Sri Lankan authorities do not take the responsibility they have under international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e351	First, I would like to thank the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for taking up this interview. A little over a year ago, I even had an interview about the political situation in Sri Lanka, and I think the debate we had at that time was very good. It was traded, among others: much about the need to get all the facts on the table in relation to possible war crimes and abuses committed against the civilian population. Sri Lanka is a country with a demanding and difficult history. Ever since the country gained its independence over 60 years ago, there has been great unrest, which has been about the conflict between the majority and minorities in the country, along an ethnic dimension. Over the last 20 to 30 years, the conflict between the authorities and the Tamil tigers has affected the country. In all wars and conflicts, the civilian population is hit hard. Then it is important that those affected be seen by the international community and that international society contribute to civil protection while the conflict is in progress. However, it is also important that civil society should be given its rightful renunciation afterwards, and that the authorities of the country should be entrusted with a great deal of responsibility. Norway has had an active policy on Sri Lanka — by providing assistance, but perhaps especially in the peace process at the end of the 1990s, where Norway was asked to play a role. A peaceful and political solution was hoped for, but we know the story: despite many attempts to create lasting peace, the conflict culminated violently in the autumn of 2008, when a military solution was chosen instead of reconciliation and negotiation. War may sometimes be inevitable, but the problem is that war does not solve what is the real conflict, what is the reason it breaks out war. One side or another can win, but only reconciliation and political solutions lead to lasting peace. We also see in Sri Lanka that war has not eliminated the conflict. It is not that the ethnic divisions have disappeared after the war. Should it be possible to achieve reconciliation, it is important that all the facts about what actually happened during the war, and especially towards the end of it, come to the conclusion that real processes are being initiated to settle the injustice committed against the civilian population, and that those who have done injustice are being punished. Sri Lankan authorities must also take responsibility. The UN panel of experts has produced a report that is quite clear that there has been a major infringement. The Panel considers, inter alia: that international humanitarian law was infringed. When it's written in the report that the authorities were targeting civil and hospital bombing, while they were refusing the people help and medicine, it's serious. It is also serious that the Tamil tigers should have used civilians as shields – to mention some of what appears. It is important that there is now a great deal of pressure to launch an independent investigation and that the authorities are responsible. I am also concerned that if that responsibility is not taken, the international community with the UN must intervene through the Security Council. The expert panel, on which the representative Skovholt Gitmark was involved, comes with a number of recommendations on how to follow up the report. What's important now is that it actually happens. All countries that have been through war, and where there has been an assault on the population, experience that it is difficult to achieve lasting peace unless the truth of what happened during the war comes to light, and that those who were affected are being reviled. It will apply in particular to Sri Lanka. I think it is very good, what the Foreign Minister says about Norway having taken up the report with the Sri Lankan authorities, and expressed expectations that it would be followed up in a credible way. I think it's important now that the international community doesn't let go of the matter until it actually happens. Then I finally want to say that I am pleased with the commitment that is at Stortingen for this matter. I also want to mention that I am not least very pleased with the exemplary commitment of the Tamil environment we have in Norway. It is important to keep this matter high on the agenda, and I will once again thank the interpellant for addressing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e374	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Now it's about the way forward. Two years ago, from this pulpit, we talked about wishing that the victorious party, at least armedly, had to stretch out a hand in terms of reconciliation and creating and building trust. That hasn't happened. Interpellant cited examples of the state of some parts of Sri Lanka. The challenge is to create a situation that does not once again mean that someone has to arm himself in 10–15 years, or before. That's the challenge. It is worrying when we know that some countries are now using Sri Lanka as a school example of how to combat terrorism. Then we have a challenge. I would venture the claim that these are some of the same states that put a protective hand over Sri Lanka, for example. in the Security Council, but also in other UN bodies. The UN Human Rights Council had Sri Lanka not long after the tragedy two years ago, and the majority gave praise to Sri Lanka – Norway was not part of it, but the majority gave praise to Sri Lanka. So it's a long way to go. The role of Norway in Sri Lanka, for which the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a good account, is not at present great. The likelihood of Norway being able to push Sri Lanka to do the right things is not great. Norway does not have a high star in some circles in the Sinhala majority, and it's just to realize. Our influence goes through other states. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned contact with like-minded countries, the EU, the United States and others. The greatest influence on Sri Lanka may have other Asian countries. To what extent we can influence those countries, I'm not going to wonder, but in conversations with countries like India and Pakistan, I think this is an important topic to address. Had our contact with China been better than it is at the moment, China too would have been a natural interlocutor. It is also important to continue to include Sri Lanka in the Human Rights Council. It is important that the serious claims made in that report be investigated. My belief that the government of Colombo is meeting that challenge is unfortunately small. They might have made it clear if they had the will to do so, but the political will is not there, and then a considerable pressure must be put on them. The fact that they have a responsibility under international law does not deprive Norway and other countries of the right to seek other ways to clarify what happened two years ago. Here there is a considerable amount of work to be done. It'll be wrong for Sri Lanka and it'll be wrong for later if we forget, if we leave this behind. It is true that a positive development is being described in parts of Sri Lanka now, economically, safely, etc., but that it will be a cover for the burial of this case will be unfortunate and could once again create the basis for a new conflict in the future. So there is every reason to keep this matter warm in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e389	When the television cameras over the conflict in Sri Lanka have been switched off and the silence has subsided considerably over the same conflict, today’s interpellation is important in drawing attention to a conflict that has not ended and that the world community must not forget. Therefore, it is good to hear that there is a broad consensus about the approach to propulsion around the interpellation of the representative Skovholt Gitmark. I think that is very, very necessary, because we are all taking a distance from war crimes and assaults in general, and we are all supporting the civilian population in Sri Lanka, who have suffered for many years from oppression and massive abuse, both from the authorities of Colombo and from LTTE. You have to be honest about that. None of the parties to the conflict in Sri Lanka are without blood on their hands, to use that expression. I fully share the Foreign Minister's reference that the UN Security Council has to play a role in establishing a lasting solution, a lasting peace. I also refer to the Foreign Minister's statement that the international community must respond where peace is not followed up. The government army won the military battle, but they have in no way won the peace. The military victor has not created lasting peace. It has not created development. Although there are small percentages, which the representative, Høglund, had to say, in terms of economic growth, this is not something that shines in any kind of context. The government of Colombo has a great responsibility. They are responsible not only for the crimes committed by the government army during the war, but also for the crimes that followed – the forced movement of hundreds of thousands of people, detention camps, arbitrary prisons, torture and executions. The humanitarian situation is still totally unacceptable, with the suppression of civil and political rights for the entire population of Sri Lanka, not just the Tamils. These actions continue as the government more or less celebrates itself and its so-called victory. The international community naturally has a responsibility for silence and indirectly also for hiding the truth. I believe that the world community must have clarity about what has really happened, on the real scale of war and crime. Those responsible must be held accountable. Fortunately, there are international judicial institutions that can handle this. Crimes and assaults were committed by both parties to this conflict. Those who, through violence and terror, have fought for an independent state bear equal responsibility. Their actions and their abuse must be followed up in the same way. Of course, a crime by one party does not justify a crime by the other. My main point is that there is no definitive solution to this conflict. A lasting and sustainable solution cannot be forced, either from either party or from the outside. No matter what solution you end up with, the population has to live with each other as neighbours on the same island. A peaceful solution based on mutual negotiations is therefore the only way forward. As the representative Eva Kristin Hansen said, the Tamil environment in Norway also, with its presence, represents a considerable responsibility – a responsibility to look to the future and not to the past, to support the political leaders who seek solutions through peaceful means, not war, and to support a process of negotiation that must come to create a degree of reconciliation in a warring country. The Tamil environment also has strong organisations in Norway. They do an important job as part of civil society in culture, language and education. They, along with other Tamils in exile all over the world, may be the most important driver of peace and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e408	From the Christian People's Party we have been following the conflict in Sri Lanka carefully for decades. This island community has by nature the best prerequisites for being a great place to live together. Instead, the country has been ravaged by a cruel civil war that created a country filled with suffering instead of happiness. Unfortunately, when we look back at this tragic civil war, we have to note that there was an infringement on both sides. It has now been two years since the bloody final battle led to a military victory for the government forces and a crushing defeat for the Tamil guerrilla forces. War reports from Sri Lanka no longer fill the headlines of the media, but we must not forget this violent island and the population there. It is now a matter of building peace, and Norway needs to see its responsibility to contribute. It is important, therefore, that the representative of Gitmark has done this by raising this gap, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given an attentive and robust response. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would urge the Norwegian Government to commit itself more strongly to contributing to a more positive development. It must take place through international bodies, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained, in direct contact with the authorities of Sri Lanka and through the extensive work of non-governmental organisations on development, human rights and reconciliation. Firstly, we should work actively to improve the living conditions of the civilian population. It can also improve the basis for reconciliation – which unfortunately is not there yet. In addition, we need a completely different pace of work on housing and covering the basic needs of some 100,000 internally displaced Tamils who have still not been given a place to live. We must not forget the most vulnerable groups, for example. the approximately 80,000 warheads and thousands of war - torn children. In the wake of the war, many also live with physical disabilities or mental trauma. We must also avoid colonising the traditional areas of Tamils in the north and north-east. It is systematic and is one of the greatest threats to reconciliation, the work of groups for peace and reconciliation and future development in Sri Lanka. Secondly, we must support political processes to strengthen human rights. It is absolutely legitimate for the authorities of any state to combat terrorism, but it must be done wisely and on the premises of the rule of law. In Sri Lanka, there is now a need to repeal the most rigorous legal provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act. We must speed up the establishment of independent administrative mechanisms for the protection of human rights. The approximately 10,000 Tamils in custody must have access for family and full legal protection. Thirdly, a court order is needed. Serious war crimes, not least crimes against humanity, must not pass unprovoked. It is not always easy to combine such a settlement with reconciliation between the parties, but both are necessary. As the interpellant pointed out, in March the United Nations panel of experts filed serious allegations of war crimes — the charges apply to both parties, both the LTTE and the Sri Lankan authorities. It is important that Norway contributes to such a settlement and such follow-up to this panel of experts. Fourthly, we have the opportunity to contribute to reconciliation in the meeting with single and Tamils living in Norway, which has been discussed by many. In our country, people must be able to live well together regardless of ethnic background. Most of those who have come from Sri Lanka and resided in Norway are Tamils. They have demonstrated in an impressive way the will and ability to obtain education, get into work and contribute to the society in which they live. We can also take up their relationship and get a guarantee that they will have access to visit family and friends in Sri Lanka without being subjected to harassment. I believe that the Minister of Foreign Affairs outlined as two main lines in the Norwegian road further: a close dialogue with Sri Lankan authorities and at least a close dialogue with like-minded countries that are engaged in pressing for a proper settlement – a reconciliation and a peaceful development for this country – is the way to go, and it has the full support of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e429	Let me first thank the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for this interview. I think it's important that what happened, and what happened, in Sri Lanka, doesn't go in the forgetbook. I am one who remembers very well the war between the government forces and the Tamil tigers, which evolved in a very dramatic direction in the autumn of 2008 and spring 2009, after both parties had rejected a peace agreement, and after the ceasefire was broken in 2008. We also remember the media images of how the government forces pushed the LTTE guerrilla into a corner and how the Tamil civilian population was captured inside the battlefields. As others have said, we have many Tamils in Norway. It's a very well integrated group. I followed them very closely two years ago, and I think it is important to have contact with them in the future, as I perceived the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, and that is important in the further work. But we should not forget the TV images from two years ago about how people were locked in, that there was no mercy on the part of the singles, that the government didn't let anyone into the area and even denied both health workers, food supplies, medicines and other equipment to the internally displaced refugees. It says a lot about the situation at that time that the International Red Cross on January 27, 2009 saw the need to pull its aid workers out of the war zone and set up their bases a good deal away. Neither did the media get in. Several have been said here how Sri Lanka's government broke international law and international humanitarian law. Two years ago, we received a debate on the UN Decision Responsibility to Protect from 2005, on what happened in Sri Lanka, that when a government itself does not manage to take care of its own civilian population, it is perhaps the international community that needs to do so. The war between the Tamil Tigers and the Sri Lankan government ended on 18 May 2009 and the United Nations report estimates that around 40,000 civilians lost their lives only between January and May of that year. In time, the Tamils have been subjected to military surveillance, occupation and abuse. We also see that people disappear – this has also been the case here. 350000 Tamils were interned and subjected to serious crimes by government soldiers. More than 11,000 suspected fighters in 2009 have been arbitrarily imprisoned without charges. I know that there has been a demand that these should receive legal assistance, and that at least the Red Cross must come in. But once again, it is a responsibility that the international community must also take. It is also important for the international community to ask the Government of Sri Lanka to end the detention and eradication of Tamil culture. This was explained by Skovholt Gitmark very well. It is also important that the Government of Sri Lanka fulfils its international obligations, as the Foreign Minister stressed, and that the UN Security Council is conscious of its responsibilities. The international community must follow up if the government fails on such issues. Those who have committed an offence must also be held responsible – as far as representatives from both sides are concerned in this cruel civil war. But again, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark said, most of the leaders of the Tamil tigers, not to say everyone, are gone – removed, to say it like that – or killed, while in important positions there are still important representatives of the Sinhala side who have committed an assault. It is also important and necessary, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that the Norwegian Government is keeping in touch with like-minded countries in this matter. At the end of the day, I imagine that the international community must be much stronger on the road, and that there is no way out. Both the Security Council and the countries that have also worked on this matter for several years are cooperating on Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e446	This is case No. 2 on the agenda, and I can actually conclude that today I agree with everything that has been said by all the speakers in both debates. Sickness about Norway has no formal role in Sri Lanka today, it is clear that what we do and official statements that may come from Norway are being followed extra closely because we have historically had a special role to play in facilitating the peace process in Sri Lanka in the past. The report from the United Nations panel of experts is tough reading. It says that war crimes have been committed, and that there have been atrocities from both sides of the conflict. There is in this conflict, as in most other conflicts, "good guys" and "bad guys" to use such a term, on both sides. But let there be no doubt that the government of Sri Lanka did, was terrible. We have all met representatives from the Tamil environment in Norway. It makes an impression. To me, they appear to be solid figures for their group. It's hard to meet them, hard to sit down and listen to their experiences. Many of these were in safe Norway while they knew that abuses and atrocities were being committed against close family members at home in Sri Lanka. Many of these Tamils say that Norway failed them in the interview after a return to war in 2006 and until 2009. As I said, it makes the impression to hear their – of course – the most subjective version of the situation in Sri Lanka. But at the same time as this curtain, we have to look forward in our approach. Now we have to make sure that from the Norwegian side we do not do things that make the difficult situation in Sri Lanka even worse. Norway is, as I said, in a special situation because there is reason to believe that what we say and do is followed extra closely. An opinion by the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Norwegian Minister for Development on the situation in Sri Lanka, on what has happened in Sri Lanka, is a reason to believe that extra attention is being paid. Finally, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his approach to the situation. On the Norwegian side, we have to make clear demands on the Government of Sri Lanka to follow up on the serious issues identified in the UN report. At the same time as these clear requirements for government, it will be essential that we have a good relationship with and are in dialogue with both single and Tamil people. It will strengthen the possibilities of finding good solutions serving Sri Lanka in the future — and that is, after all, all that is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e462	Thank you very much to everyone who has contributed to the debate. I think it has been a good debate with a focus on what Norway can contribute, and good answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this way. Let me just say to the asylum case that I think it's a strength that the information now finally begins to come out. I would recommend the government to be open about the assessments that were used to get people to Norway. It's an unusual matter, but not extraordinary in relation to what's done before, but I think that for the process it's important that there's openness around it. Then we are lucky from Norway, which has 14,000 Tamils in Norway – more have been involved. These are angry people who are largely taking higher education, who are active in the labour market and who are well integrated, but it is also an inherently big problem in Sri Lanka that these are people who are pushed out and do not see that they have a future in Sri Lanka. It's a disease sign for the island. As many people were left with it, Sri Lanka is responsible for the investigation and for reviewing what has actually happened on both sides. The government of Sri Lanka shows little ability and willingness to do just that, and then it's extra important that international society push to get it in place. If it still turns out to be impossible, the international community, through the UN, must take that work and stand for both the investigation, the prosecution and the trial of those who have committed crimes. There is no doubt that when you read the UN report, there have been serious crimes, crimes that include war crimes and crimes against humanity. They have to be punished, and that applies to both sides. So again, I want to say that we're dependent on doing a job on what are the underlying conflicts in Sri Lanka. That's the only way you have, along with a trial, to bring about a lasting peace. We need a normalization, we need the internally displaced refugees actually to be allowed to return, and not least, there must be no discrimination against single-letter and Tamils, nor can one sit on the outside and accept that Tamil culture is being sacrificed, and that Sinhala culture is the only thing that is allowed to practice on the island. Thank you again! We have, as many people have been involved, also a responsibility. The primary responsibility is to use pressure in international settings and forums to get through what we've been talking about. But it's also important that we take this up bilaterally every time we talk to the Sri Lankan authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e477	I would like to say, as the representative of Myrli, that there has basically been a coherent message from the Norwegian big business. If this is the case, as some people claim, that what we say here in Norway is particularly noticed, then we are hoped that today, too, our messages will come out. I am a strong supporter of Norway's message being noticed, but I may also stress that we must not, at least in our commitment to this matter, exaggerate the importance of what we can achieve through word and broad consensus here. It's important that it's on the ground, but then we have to go into a broader effort to try to get through to it, and not be self-satisfied that we have all the answers here in our peace. That's why it's the two tracks I mentioned in my post, contact with Sri Lankan authorities – clear speech, we know each other, we can talk straight out – and contact with like-minded countries. I might add the third track, which I think others were in, namely close contact with Tamil exile environments in Norway. I agree with what has been said about them in Norway, a well integrated group that makes valuable contributions, and that experiences, of course, a considerable frustration in the light of how things have gone on in Sri Lanka. I noticed what the representative from Skovholt Gitmark said when it was about refugees who have come to Norway, but I have nothing to add here either, really. It is such that the government through the State budget recommends an annual allowance for foreign citizens who can be protected in Norway. This allowance for transfer refugees currently amounts to 1200 persons. Most of those who come are recommended by the High Commissioner. And then it's true that, in some cases, the foreign service has helped Sri Lankans who want to leave Sri Lanka for fear of persecution after the end of the war. It is the UDI who has taken decisions in these cases, in some cases on the recommendation of the U.D. and then the following instructions from the Ministry of Justice. It is right to show traditional transparency about these issues, but also to be aware of the sensitivity here and not to endanger the safety of people. This applies to individuals and their families. The Administrative Act imposes on us the obligation of professional secrecy on each foreign matter, and persons who do not receive protection in their own country have the right to leave the country. Norway has a long history of helping people in danger. That is why we have to follow up on this in a responsible way too. I would also like to thank you for the debate. There has been a useful review that we take with us in further policy-making in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e490	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e504	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e513	The decision is now to deal with a legal matter. This concerns changes to the Education Act and the Private School Act and is about changing the rules on police certification so that they comply with the new Police Register Act. What we then want to make changes is a police certificate for school-like activities. This applies, for example: Music and culture schools, SFOs, teaching aids and school-like activities such as: summer schools. The rules we have with regard to teachers and assistants today also apply to those employed in that type of offer. The other area we are discussing in this proposal is the requirement for police clearance for persons appointed to provide special pedagogical assistance to kindergarten children. The vote does not take place, but the committee has come to the conclusion that we are asking the government to come back to the Storting to look at this very thing. Children in kindergarten have protection in the form that those employed there should initially have a police record. But if there's special pedagogical help for kindergarten children outside the kindergarten, there's a hole in the law. We're asking that we do something about that. Then it's also assessed whether the same should apply to high school. It is definitely a relevant issue, especially in schools that are both secondary and secondary, where there will be different legislation in secondary and secondary schools. At the same time, many high school students are over 18. It is also possible to take these considerations into account in protecting children from people who have committed crimes before, but otherwise. So there's still a balance between different considerations. So far, the majority believes that we're well covered in today's law. In addition, some opposition parties have addressed this with teachers’ competence requirements. We will come back to that in a later matter. I then explained the position of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e526	The Progress Party agrees with the proposals in the case which are intended to introduce demands for police clearance. We are also pleased that there is a large consensus in the matter that the government will return to Stortinget with a proposal to introduce a statutory requirement for a police record for persons who provide special pedagogical assistance, according to the training law § 5-7, to kindergarten children. Like several of the hearing bodies, inter alia: NTNU, the Progress Party also believes that the consideration of the students, regardless of their age, is of great importance. We find that there are good arguments for imposing a general ban on employment even in higher education. Students in high school are still at a vulnerable age, and they often perceive that adults working there are authoritarians relative to themselves. Therefore, it is important that students are confident that none of those working in high school are convicted of sexual abuse against minors. The reason given for not wanting to introduce a general occupational ban in secondary education for persons who have a claim to sexual abuse against children is said to be that the adding authorities may, through interview and other studies, become familiar with the background to the job offered. In this respect, I would like to point out that in some cases it is not as easy to obtain such information through an interview and when questioning former employers. At the same time, it is important to point out that a police record itself does not guard against sexual abuse. However, a requirement for a certificate shows that special requirements are imposed on professionals also in higher education. With regard to the updating of the rules on State supervision of the municipalities, the Progress Party concludes with the proposals in the case. However, the Progress Party considers it timely to point out that in many cases both KS and school owners point out that the offences detected after the supervisory authority has carried out supervision are often presented as of little importance and that deviations and comments are largely de minimis. In many cases, students have received special education without a municipal decision to do so. The comment that municipal politicians often get from the school management on this deviation is that it is not of great importance. The student has received special education, we just haven't made a decision on it. However, if a student is given special education without a decision to do so, he/she has no opportunity to assess the offer, nor does he/she have the right to complain about the offer given. In other words, they lose their rights. It is a problem that supervision is often produced as more to the detriment of school owners and students than to the benefit of school owners and students. Against this background, the Progress Party considers that there is a need to ‘develop a clearer feedback concept to the school manager in the context of deviation and remark’ so that interested parties are given the opportunity to appeal the decision. In addition to this, the Progress Party supports the comment that it was expected that the case contained requirements for relevant professional competence to teach in some subjects. I am thus promoting the proposals in the position of the Progress Party alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e541	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e544	The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, has explained the facts of the matter. The Committee broadly agrees on the proposed legislative changes to the Education Act and the Private School Act. However, let me make a few comments on the proposed provisions relating to the requirement of police attestation and the legal provision that persons convicted of sexual abuse against minors cannot be admitted to primary school, cultural and music school, school leisure, to provide homework or school-like activities. There is certainly a need to protect children and other vulnerable groups from persons who have committed such serious crimes. We still get reminders of that. It's a big social problem that we have to fight in the ways we can. However, the right considers that the prohibition of the imposition of criminal convictions that have committed sexual abuse against minors must also include secondary school, where students are still under the age of authority. I remember that there is only one summer difference between the 15-16 year-old leaving primary school and the 15-16 year-old who starts in secondary school, and is therefore at an equally vulnerable age. However, it is important for the Right to stress that by doing so we do not believe that the prohibition of employment should include vocational training in the company, because we see that this could give a general ban on work which would be very difficult to deal with. However, it is important to raise awareness of business — and the rest of the world’s work — which accepts apprentices and cooperates with the training authorities, on the importance of facilitating a safe and well psychosocial working environment for apprentices as well as for their other employees. The right has noticed that in the previous work on the legislative proposal, there has also been a consultation proposal on how we can introduce skills requirements for Norwegian teachers. We all agree on the importance of the good teacher and that the committed, motivating teacher is characterized by his or her sound professional competence at the bottom. In view of this, of how important the teacher is for quality and for students' learning outcomes, the Right is surprised that the Government will not now propose the legalisation of relevant skills requirements for Norwegian teachers. There is little doubt that there is a need for increased competence among teachers at all stages. We have partly taken the consequences of this in the new teacher training courses. Strategies for quality, teacher training programmes, also provide a basis for today’s teachers to be given an important boost in order to do an even better job in the classroom. Both of these measures recognise that once teacher training and once teacher-educated does not necessarily mean that you have the professional on board that you should have in order to be able to pursue a career as a teacher, which may in fact mean 30–40 years in the classroom. We also know that seven out of ten teachers themselves say that they experience a concrete need for professional replenishment. In recent years, the government has been legislating a number of other aspects of the Training Act — I mention voluntary counselling and fruit and vegetables. The right opinion is that it is high time to legislate for teacher competence, which is a key factor in raising the quality of Norwegian school. I am today challenging the Minister of Knowledge to answer when the Storting can expect to have a matter presented on this matter. Furthermore, the Right supports the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e565	The left supports the proposals for changes made by the government in this matter, but I think it is important to bring forward an aspect that is worrying me, and that applies in more and more cases. We agree with what the government is proposing on police clearance, but I think it is important to stress that it does not solve all the problems associated with child abuse. It seems like we politicians now have one solution to child abuse, and that's police record. Now there is soon nothing you can do about volunteer work or as a public employee for whom you don't need a police record. It requires a lot of bureaucracy from our police. There's a lot of other things I could imagine that policemen used the time to say, than to write out all these police certificates to all those people who certainly don't need them. But what really worries me the most is that I think it leads to a relaxation in being obsessed about all the signals you have to watch over child abuse. As for all the really bad acts we've seen, I don't think there's anyone who could've been stopped with a police record, because this happens once, and people would like to get a police record because they've been nice before this happens. It worries me if the schools, football clubs or other social areas where we travel, make a routine that as long as you've delivered a police certificate, you're okay. There's no certainty about that. Rather, on the contrary, it will be that many people are going to work for that police certificate to be nice, but that many around them relax in looking for the signals that are needed. I want both those who work with volunteers and those who work with children to know about all the signals they're going to look for to see that something is wrong. In return, it can seem very trusting in the small social environments where people know each other well. I think we have to make sure that the galleon we've now thrown ourselves into in terms of police clearance, does not lead us to relax in relation to child abuse, that we make sure that all those who work with children know what to look for, know what signals they're going to look for, and know that they're going to take children seriously in absolutely all areas. But we are also voting in favour here today. The second, which I am actually a little sorry that the government did not propose in this case, concerns what they sent out at the hearing, namely that of increasing the requirements for professional competence in order to be able to teach the subjects in which they teach. It was affordable in the government's consultation documents, but unfortunately it has been removed today. I hope that in a short time we will see suggestions here in the Chamber that we get teachers who actually have professional competence in the subjects in which they teach, and there could have been a decision here in Stortinget as soon as possible. I am sincerely sorry that the proposal the government has sent to the hearing has not been promoted as a legislative proposal for us here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e581	This is an aggregate proposal with slightly different proposals for legislative changes, because they need to be dealt with now, because most of them will apply from the coming harvest. We have proposed to amend the provisions on police clearance, so that we also include the requirement for police certification in school-like activities, primarily in the context of summer schools. It is primarily Oslo Municipality that has called for a clearer rule for this. When we use the term ‘school-like activity provision’, we also expect it to include other types of issues related to it. However, I think the point made by the representative Skei Grande is very important to repeat, because I'm a little worried about checking formalities around a police certificate and then lowering the guard as to what kind of preparedness you need. In most cases where child abuse occurs, the offenders have not been convicted in the past. It could be people who haven't been taken before. If you don't have a standby and training in what to look for, you can get a false sense of security around this. There are also proposals here for similar provisions to be implemented in the case of secondary education. It's always like there's a balance around where to set the limits of this. Today, we have not proposed that we have similar types of provisions in the field of secondary education, and a professional ban for people working in higher education, related to the observation of sexual abuse, but of course it is a matter that needs to be assessed in each case also here. So a brief comment on the question of competence requirements, which is not included, but which was included in the draft consultation proposal. So it's not because we've decided not to implement this that it's not part of this bill. But in any case, it was not to be implemented from coming school years. And because, through the consultation rounds, we have got some points of view and different counter-conceptions, we need to do a more thorough job before we get back to the Stortinget with proposals on how to do this. I've been to the Storting before, and I'm referring to it. We have time to do a more thorough job in reviewing the hearing opinions we have received on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e594	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e597	It is the case that when these changes to the Training Act were sent to the hearing, many of us were in the trap and cheered at the fact that the government now wants to start demanding what we know works very well, which leads to a good learning outcome in school, namely to demand that teachers have higher education in the subjects in which they teach. Today we treat the law without such a decision being present. We have time, says the Council of State, and it was in any case not to be introduced before the fall of 2012. But then the question is, is this going to be introduced in the autumn of 2012? There are many positive changes that are made in this room, against which there are counter-conceptions, but they are nevertheless implemented, because we are sure that it is the best. In this case, we know that's the best. Will these amendments be effective in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e604	When we proposed it in the hearing opinions, it was of course because we had an intention to implement it. And through the consultation round, we have also received support from different teams. For example, the Federation of Education, Norsk Lektorlag and Norsk Skolelederbund have supported it. The majority of municipalities have supported it — and the counties. So there is broad support for that proposal. But we have also received some important objections, from the KS, the National Association of Schools and the private school organizations. We want to go through the objections they have raised, so that's why we haven't promoted this right now. That of course also because it was not a matter of urgency, because it was in any case not supposed to apply from this fall. I therefore expect that we can go through this and come back to Stortinget with it, so that it is possible for the Stortinget to decide on this before the school year begins in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e612	I'm glad the Council shares my concerns about police statements as sleeping cushions. Then I thought that I could give the council a chance to say a little bit about all the other things you can do to prevent abuse of children in the school environment, all that's about prevention, and not least the knowledge you need as an adult, to know what to look for. We've seen that maybe it's within kindergartens, where we don't have the least concern messages for child protection, you should make sure you have the skills to look for signals. I wonder if the Council of State has thought through what other means you want to use in addition to the police record, to make sure to stop the abuse of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e619	We are now working on a new framework plan for pre-school teacher training. What is particularly related to it and related to it is the ability of pre-school teachers to observe the development of children and thus know what to look for if children are subjected to abuse. I don't think the most common issues are that they are subject to abuse by employees in kindergarten, but from other adults they may be connected, so it's a matter we follow up on that occasion. So I want to say that the more you work in teams, with adults who see each other, and who see children, the less vulnerable children will be to abuse by single teachers or single employees. It's a very good development in Norwegian school, that teachers' powers work more towards groups of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e628	Early effort is a repetition, whether we are talking about the special education message or the high school message. At the same time, we know that when it comes to the hearing, the government was very concerned about the kind of skills you would need to provide to high school teachers. It was at least where you put the largest ‘tied’ in view of the need to raise your skills. We know that the hearing bodies have expressed themselves in favour of and against competence requirements in general, but there are also many hearing bodies that have pointed to initial training, where it is also important to have teachers with a high level of competence. I wonder if the Council of State can assure me that in connection with the thorough job you are about to do, you will go back and assess whether there is also a need for higher requirements of competence for teachers from the first class.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e635	There's probably a point in these discussions to go a little step by step. This is what we are going to have as a major challenge in terms of skills requirements – that is, the kind of skills the teacher initially has, and how we can match with new teacher training. We've at first concentrated on youth. It's well related to how we've now put up teacher training for the older students in primary school, and then we get to take that discussion forward on what ambitions we're going to have for primary school. But I think we have met quite well now. What we've been up to in relation to youth skills is quite demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e642	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e662	I think we're pretty much in agreement on the signal of the survey that we're referring to in the interpellation. Unfortunately, it's rather motivating reading, i.e. that 9 pst. Swedish and Danish — that is, Scandinavian — are not part of the education. About 70 pst., combined, says it's a little bit like that, that it follows up to a little bit, and just 3 pst. believes that the objectives of the curriculum are being fulfilled to a large extent. 88 pst. Schools also say that they do not cooperate with schools in other Nordic countries. This interpellation is not meant as criticism of the government as to what teachers do or don't do, because I guess we're going to agree that this is important. I just think it's important that we bring the topic up, and that together we should try as best we can to figure out a way to do something about this challenge. In fact, it is important to pass on the Scandinavian community. Maybe that's how we take it a little bit too given. Nordic cooperation is a broad consensus. It's not exactly an area that appears to be threatened, like a crisis-oriented thing, or something like there's a big political conflict around it. It's almost a little bit of a deafening consensus that makes Nordic questions have a little bit of a hard to get up. When the Nordic theme becomes weak in the public debate, I think it also infects in relation to, among other things. the schoolwork. In this way, it is not taken seriously. It's not a priority. Unfortunately, what we also see is not a very good development in the understanding of languages between Scandinavian countries. We have other studies that clearly show that the younger the people, the less language understanding is. The main problem may be between Danish and Norwegian on the one hand and Norwegian and Swedish on the other. Why is Nordic cooperation important? Is Nordic cooperation something we have in the spirit of a Brotherhood, or something we have because it is politically necessary, and right and important to have? I think the last thing. We have a great story in the spirit of the Brotherhood, and we're enjoying it. We have become a peaceful corner of the world. But into a new era, I think we see that globalisation is going to give us competition in almost all areas of society, in a way that means that we need a consolidation around what we stand for – the values that we stand for, the economy that we are part of, and the cultural circle that we are part of. All of this will be part of an international image, where competition is strengthened, and where we actually need a broader foundation than each of the Nordic countries can provide. In the private sector, we see that international ownership is Nordic. We see that the biggest players in finance, banking and insurance are in the Nordic region. In the political context, we are all small nations in the international debate. Overall, we're somewhere between the tenth and the twelfth largest economy in the world. Overall, we're going to be able to assert ourselves with a completely different weight than what we can do for each of us. For culture and research too, having a good common Scandinavian language understanding is central. Having a cultural home path increases our creativity, increases our capacity and improves our ability to compete in a fierce international competition. In particular in the field of research, it may be worth addressing this. It is probably the area most challenging for the use of Scandinavian languages — the area where maintaining the so-called language domains is most demanding in relation to internationalisation. And good it is, in one way. We are not going to isolate ourselves, but we need to have a policy that is clear in relation to bilingualism, as we do in national language policy. But that doesn't mean we have to forget the common names that the Scandinavian language represents. This is going to be central, and more central, both to continue the Nordic welfare model and to maintain our economy and our voice in the international image. Many people say that we can speak English – business leaders, maybe, when we talk about orienting ourselves towards English, for example. companies working across the Nordic countries. Yeah, I'm sure we can. But it's not because of the English skills we have a place between 70,000 and 100,000 Swedish youths working in Norway. It is because of their understanding of Norwegian, and the understanding of Swedish – that they can go straight into Norwegian contexts, right into cafes, shops and other places where we have the joy of meeting them. So what can we do? Firstly, it is important not to marginalise Nordic cooperation. It's important that we raise it. In teacher training, we also experience that this is a danger with hare labs. The Nordic Association took a year ago a telephone round to the teachers' institutions, and it gave a somewhat similar picture to what we got from the directorate's study. We are not going to put more in a telephone round than necessary, but the signals were at least unambiguous. So we might have to think a little bit more about what engages students. How can new projects be developed, new ways of approaching Scandinavian education, which makes it more up-to-date and perhaps more exciting? Today’s online technology – e-mail, Twitter, Facebook, all electronic means of communication – should be able to open up to work across borders. We have a story for school students to meet, visit each other, but we don't have a long story for example. school students across the Nordic countries are doing their student assignments together. Both history, social sciences, cultural sciences, in a number of areas, I think it could be vital for education — that is, a new and a little more practical approach, and an approach that would underline the added value that lies in the Nordic region. The Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council has held a conference in Helsinki these days, one of which is the theme. There have been pilots from projects in Finland — who have just visited, but visits with practical content between Sweden and Finland, and between Sweden and Finland in the Sami context — pilots whom I think it would be useful to look at. Then it's important that we follow up and prioritize the work that is actually done. There I would like to mention the Nordic Association's schoolwork, which unfortunately has come out a little unlucky in this year's budget, with a practical cut of NOK 156 000. There's no big amount in the big context, but it's a big amount in relation to the student exchange we're talking about. I hope the Council of State will take it home to the Department in order to find a solution that I know it's working for. The amount should not be greater than that should be possible. Then I would like to point out the work done by the bilateral associations, i.e. the Swedish-Norwegian association at Voksenåsen, Danish-Norwegian at Lysebu and Schäffergården and Haneholmen in Helsinki, which conduct teaching seminars with Nordic literature, where feedback is clearly positive. I hope the department will use the channels that are possible towards the school, towards the Education Directorate, to revitalize Scandinavian education. It has to be about increasing interest, it has to stress the importance of this field, and it also has to be about making demands that you actually meet the curricula that lie there, because they are not bad at all if you had just chosen to follow them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e696	It seems that the undersigned and the representative Olemic Thommessen have the same sad reaction when we try to contact young Danes and get black in English. At least until now, I have insisted on raising my voice and speaking a little more clearly and counting on them to understand gradually – but with the result that they think I am Swedish. So it is quite obvious that there is less knowledge among youth in the Nordic region now of Swedish, Danish and Norwegian, and less understanding. I think that's because of a lot of relationships. I'm not sure that – if we had done similar studies to the representative Thommessen now asks about, at an earlier stage – there was so much better training in Norwegian school. But I think the influence around was much more Nordic, and not as English, or Americanized, as now. It was Sweden and Denmark that were our foreign holiday country. There was a lot more to watch on Swedish and Danish television. There were many more Finnish young people who spoke Swedish, and more Icelandic youths who had studied in the other Nordic countries, and it was therefore much easier in the Nordic context also that it was the Scandinavian languages that were chosen as common language. Now I also find that English is becoming common language when you meet in the Nordic countries, because the Finnish youth have become much better in English and much more interested in English, and because Icelandic youths have not as often studied in other Nordic countries. So I think we have a more demanding starting point. Nevertheless, the ambitions of our knowledge of training in Nordic and Scandinavian languages are great in Norwegian school. We have training in the Nordic language in the Norwegian curriculum, and after the 10th year stage, the students will be able to ‘understand and reproduce information from Swedish and Danish daily languages’, as well as ‘read and reproduce the content of a selection of texts in Swedish and Danish’. Following Vg1 in preparatory studies and Vg2 in professional subjects, the students shall be able to ‘account for similarities and differences between the Nordic languages and between the north-eastern and modern Norwegian languages’, and after Vg2 in preparatory studies ‘preparing for a selection of Nordic texts in translation and in original’. So we have a significant level of ambition in this area, and it's important how we follow it up. Through the Nordic Council of Ministers, measures are already in place to strengthen teaching in Nordic. The Council of Ministers has allocated 300,000 Danish kroner to each of the Nordic countries to work with the Nordic language campaign 2011. The Ministry of Knowledge channelles funds for the campaign through the following partners and actions: The association!les expands the literacy project in secondary school and Rein text in secondary school to strengthen the focus on neighboring language education through guidance material for teachers related to text excerpts, including audio files, in Swedish and Danish in pocket books that students get for no part and own. The Language Council concretely identifies two projects: Nordic children's dictionary, which is a web dictionary for children from approx. 12 years and published electronically, and training in neighbouring language teaching for teachers in secondary school. In 2011, the Norden Association will organise Nordic author’s tours and offer visits to a Nordic Scandinavian-speaking writer or literature publisher to school classes at 4th, 7th and 10th stages. The visit will be accompanied by an outline for preparation and post-work, with a current text excerpt and tasks. The structure will be adapted to the objectives of the curriculum. The Directorate’s survey has provided useful information and will be followed up with similar questions. Any changes will be considered. It is close to seeing this in the context of the revision of the Norwegian curriculum and the availability of a new curriculum for the 2013–2014 school year. In the context of the revision of the Norwegian plan, the online guidance will also be adjusted, and Nordic language understanding will be a topical issue. The Directorate has drawn up an implementation plan for information and guidance on new curricula in autumn 2013. Competence objectives in the Norwegian plan, including Nordic language understanding, can be a topical issue. But I think it's important that we go back to the broader picture. Fortunately, significant initiatives are being taken in many areas to strengthen Nordic cooperation, including in the field of culture – not least in the field of culture. Of course, it is also important in terms of language development and the external impulses of Norwegian school. The Ministry of Culture encourages actors throughout the cultural field to participate actively in Nordic cooperation. They consider establishing a multi-annual dissemination programme in the public libraries to facilitate the literature of neighbouring countries for both adults and children. We will facilitate the dissemination of art and culture by the cultural school system in neighbouring Nordic languages, and it will also be set up to strengthen the dissemination of Norwegian film and television productions in the Nordic region to ensure more co-productions for film and television. It is also the case that current support schemes for computer games are being worked on, and it may also contribute to the development of computer games in several Nordic languages. Then we're in on some channels that might be a little bit more attractive to young people too. At the same time, we are working on finding solutions that can help improve mutual access to neighbouring country television in the Nordic region. It's a little bit harder to control now than before, but it's at least an attention you can have. When we build a Norwegian language bank, it will facilitate enhanced Nordic cooperation on language resources, and the government is actively promoting and following up objectives and actions in the Nordic Language Declaration between other actions that can strengthen the Nordic Language Community. We're trying to approximate this in a broad field, because it's clear that the school doesn't work in a vacuum in this area and can't compensate for the changes in the Nordic community's cooperation areas, nor compensate for the much closer American and English-speaking culture in today's youth. But we can, as I've been told, use different channels to make sure that we still have a good understanding and knowledge of each other's Scandinavian languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e730	I would like to thank the Council of State for a fine answer. Now I want the Danes to think I'm Swedish rather than I want to capitulate in English. I'm living with it. But I agree with the description, and I also know myself very well in the indignation where you stand and ask about the road. But it's like English defines us on a distance, even though we like to think that we're very good in English. Then we can imagine ourselves, when we are in a somewhat demanding debate in a somewhat demanding context, that we provide better – we are stronger participants – in our mother tongue than in English. We must not forget that. In it there is also a relationship between an elite and the popular movement that the Scandinavian fraternity idea really is, and that is a very important value to take care of. The Nordic region is not the EU in that context, and that even means I am a point. So I think it's nice to hear about the broad picture, and I totally agree that it has to be the approach. But then it's also like I'm wondering a little bit about how the coordination of this work is happening. I have understood it this way – I ask for confirmation – that it is the Ministry of Knowledge that has the primary responsibility for the Scandinavian language work in Norway. But in reality, this is in several departments. The Council of State itself was in the Ministry of Culture, which manages national language policy. The Language Council also has Scandinavian work. I feel a little unsure about how things really stand with the relationship between, for example. Language Council and Education Directorate in the field of practical operations. The Ministry of Knowledge deals with very important issues here, for example: a theme which is a fixed price for professional books, which has an important language policy perspective. And the work of the Council of Ministers, which is also taking place in several areas, I guess I'm in the U.D. So it's a little bit difficult to relate to this when you see it from the outside. It is a major work that needs to be done in terms of terminology and translation, which is at the Nordic language co-ordination in Copenhagen. I also believe that the work they are doing should have been strengthened, and that there should be a more active attitude towards the development of common denominators in the Nordic languages. Is it so that the Ministry of Knowledge has the primary responsibility for this, and how does one think further coordinating work on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e743	It is the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for following up the Norwegian part of the 2011 Nordic language campaign. But then there will always be a great need for cross-ministerial cooperation on Nordic cooperation, and it is the Minister of Renewal who is the Nordic Minister of Coordination and who calls us in terms of what areas we are expected to set up. I share the commitment of the Olemic Thommess to ensure that we have better Nordic cooperation that can ensure language skills between the Scandinavian countries, and I guess this is also a little bit about consciousness that can go on waves. In particular, we know that youth cultures can move in waves in the direction in which they are oriented. In the field of music and film, there is a great deal of excitement in youth cultures, which can mean that there can be greater interest and greater exchange in these areas. So I guess we'll also take it as a starting point, but be aware that we're going to take our share of responsibility. My part of that responsibility is, of course, both to follow up on what is now the initiative in the Nordic language campaign, but also to ensure that the Norwegian curriculum, which implies having knowledge of Swedish, Danish and Northern Denmark, is followed up in school. It's not just about knowledge and knowledge of Swedish and Danish, but it's also about our own language wealth, because through knowledge of related languages we also develop our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e752	Last autumn I attended a conference in North Norway with representatives from the business world from all over the country. We were divided into groups, and I chose a group where a Swedish was the first to start a debate. As probably everyone else there, I expected him to speak his native language during the presentation, but he started by saying that in order for us to understand him, he chose to speak English. Let's say I don't have anything against English. On the contrary, basic English skills are essential to cope with today's globalised world. That's not the point. The point is to illustrate the importance of training and understanding Swedish and Danish at school. The school, as explained by the Council of State, should, of course, follow the curriculum's objectives of understanding Danish and Swedish. There are many reasons why this is in the curriculum. My example of this illustrates this, as well as several examples that have been used before today. It's important that we in Scandinavia understand each other. We have much the same culture, and parts of our history are the same. It is probably more about a common cultural understanding and the importance of language in a cultural perspective than – to put it at the forefront – that Norwegian children should learn to speak Danish. In the labour market, it will be beneficial to have certain knowledge of the languages of neighbouring countries. It is not only in the working life it will get along well, but also in further education it may actually happen that parts of the curriculum are in Swedish or Danish, either at colleges or at universities. I wonder a little bit about the Right Language Policy. The Thommessen promotes the importance of Swedish and Danish skills in schools, while at the Højres national meeting, it was decided to remove new Norwegian. Is it more important to know the languages of neighbouring countries than to know one of our own languages? Nynorsk is, to a very large extent, about cultural understanding. It's about our own story. The Minister of Knowledge gave a good account of the arrangements put in place by the Nordic Council of Ministers in the Nordic Language Campaign campaign. The Nordic Association has also launched various campaigns to promote Scandinavian languages, including: through the campaign Use Scandinavian! I am so lucky to come from a municipality bordering Sweden. Our dialect is characterized by this. We have inherited many words and expressions from our Swedish neighbours. This has spiced our dialect and given us a special identity. This means that there is an extra contact with the neighbouring country, which is probably more likely to be passed through the school where it is rather far to the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e774	I'll give tribute to the interpellant to address a problem where the school is supposed to play a central role. Norway undoubtedly has close ties with both Sweden and Denmark – both historical and cultural. These links are important for us to take care of, and then knowledge of our neighboring languages is a prerequisite. Language is a crucial factor in learning about other cultures. If Norwegian students are to learn to understand the culture of our neighbouring countries, the way is through language understanding. In the ‘englishment’ of society that we see, it may be more important than ever to give new generations insight into the languages of our neighboring countries. The objectives of the Knowledge and Apprenticeship Plan are very clear. I would like to take the opportunity to mention some of these objectives: Already at the end of the 4th grade in high school, Norwegian students will be able to ‘understand some Swedish and Danish language’. Before the end of the seventh class, they shall be able to ‘read simple literary texts in Swedish and Danish and reproduce their contents’. It is therefore clearly expected that Norwegian students should already be able to master not insignificant skills in Swedish and Danish. The requirements will not be reduced in secondary and secondary education. During high school, and before the end of 10th grade, our students shall be able to ‘understand and reproduce information from Swedish and Danish daily languages’ and ‘read and reproduce the content of a selection of texts in Swedish and Danish’. State councils have themselves referred to competence objectives related to secondary education. It is not the level of ambition that is the problem, but it is the level of compliance and how these objectives of competence in high school can be achieved if we do not succeed better in the necessary work that needs to be done from primary school. The target formulations relating to neighbouring languages such as Swedish and Danish are ambitious and require targeted work at all stages of school. I believe that both the Council of State and the inter-pellant have pointed to important measures to achieve better results, and that the school will be more successful in this work. Then, as the interpellant pointed out, the study done by the Education Directorate is a little depressing reading. We must be able to say that it is not exactly right hand work, but rather left hand work that is done in many places compared to the other Scandinavian languages. The question is, how can we believe that the students will achieve the set skills goals if we are not more systematic and more careful in complying with what is in the curriculum? There are actually some exciting things going on in this area. I myself have become acquainted this year with a project at the University of Harstad, where students at the manufacturer's study have actually developed an ICT-based programme in which they connect Norwegian students to students either in Sweden or in Denmark. Then you solve problems together via two-way audio and digital aids, and you've even made a small country match, you've put in some kind of competition. It has motivated the students very much, and I think it might be among the new ways we can actually make this teaching more studentlike, everyday and more motivating for the students. A little humorous to say: you can ask yourself how delicious it would be to be Norwegian in Denmark in the future if the training in Danish falls due. For the Right, it is at least important to say that both the Danish and the Swedish neighboring languages are actually important that we manage to take care of the teaching we have in Norwegian school. So a little response to the representative Anna Ljunggren, who was concerned about the new witch. What the Right has adopted at its national meeting is optional written side-by-side. Then it's also very strongly pointed out that for the 87 pst. by Norwegian students who have a nine Norse side goal, it is not about relaxing in that subject, rather on the contrary. You have to read more, you have to use the positive tools and focus on both cultural and language history. We are convinced that there is a better way to create goodwill around the new Norwegian language than the way it is taught in that subject in very many schools in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e793	I would like to thank you for the fine input into this debate, and perhaps especially for the input that the Council of State has made, which I shall comment on in a moment. So in Nordic cooperation, the others are required to be involved. As far as I know, I do have a feeling of stomach which tells me that there may not be so much better in Sweden and Denmark than in the other Nordic countries than it is at home. I know that some initiatives have been taken in Denmark, especially in connection with the Presidency that Denmark has this year. But there is a need to revitalise all this work, and there is a need for state councils to communicate and take it up with a certain weight. I would like to challenge the Minister of Education if she would like to address the question of further strengthening the work of vitalising Scandinavian in schools. Then I don't want to comment on what I might think the Council of State did, and that's whether there's a need to go into school and look at how this teaching is done, and in what areas. After all, the councils themselves were concerned about the need to raise their eyes. Then it might be a point to raise your eyes slightly beyond the Norwegian language, even if you don't have to four on the requirements there. But maybe there are other disciplines where Scandinavian language understanding could be strengthened through practical cooperation, as I was in the field. I think it would be interesting to get a comment from the Council of State if she could think of contributing to this through, for example. to launch some pilots, preferably in cooperation with the other Nordic countries, where, for example: In line with the example of the representative of Aspaker, teaching concepts were developed within, for example: social sciences, history, cultural sciences, media where they operated across the Nordic countries. I think it is necessary for such a type of vitalization, because language understanding is ultimately about training. It is, as the Council of State was at the beginning, when we meet other Scandinavian speakers that we are friends to listen to Scandinavian languages. It is in the practical meeting with Swedish and Danish that the thresholds are reduced for what we get from the content of what is said. Then it's about the big width. This applies not only to its generality, which I have been involved in this debate, but also to the school's approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e802	I think we're now discussing a little bit more. One is: Do Norwegian youth, Norwegian society in general and the other Scandinavian and Nordic countries think that it means having good knowledge of each other, when we have a lot in common? We have a lot in common about how our different welfare countries are built. We have a lot in common with regard to the view on gender equality and the role of women in working life. We have a lot in common about history and cultural heritage. That's the big, wide picture. In general, if knowledge and knowledge of the other Nordic countries are not relevant, the school should compensate for this. I fully agree that we have a lot in common, and that there is a basis for raising what we have in common. But I think the representative Ljunggren has a point when she draws comparisons to our own interest in side goals, and especially when neuron is side goals for students who have book goals as their main goal, because it's also about having attention around our own cultural heritage, our own language development, etc. So this is a little bit of two sides of the same thing. I wonder if you think that the love of Vesaas automatically flourishes at the moment you get rid of written side measures when the side measure is neonormous. I think we really have bigger challenges on the issue of cultural heritage and pride on behalf of our own history, etc. I think that might be a little bit relevant to the whole discussion about the Nordic region. I think it's a lot to think about a little bit of alternative how social media can make sure that you, for example. have cooperation projects across book targets and new Norwegian in Norway, or across Swedish and Norwegian or Norwegian, or in Nordic context. Then you can get the Nordic knowledge, the interest and the relevance of this, even though in the beginning there may be other types of problems you're doing. It can be in real science, nature science, religion or politics for that matter. So I think we have a great potential here in thinking about other possibilities and in other arenas, not just linking this to the curriculum in Norwegian and the competences goals in Norwegian. I will also take with me the interest shown in this discussion, to ensure that youth in the Nordic countries and in the Scandinavian countries continue and in the future will be able to see that we have a lot in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e811	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e825	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e834	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing this issue. It's a very special problem. When we heard the news – now in January – in this special case, where parents were actually required for a child contribution of more than NOK 8 000 from a daughter of 18, many people put the coffee in their throats and thought: Is this really going on? The situation was that she despite her parents and their offer that she could live at home during her education. She moved away from home and sent the bill to her parents. I'm sure there are some of us in the hall who have youth at home that we might disagree with, and that might threaten to move out if they don't get what they want. But the fact that they actually do, and so suddenly can send us a bill that we have to pay in addition, cannot be the intention of this law. Another example is that parents may suddenly be charged for large contributions: a father was required for contributions by his daughter. The daughter of 16 found out she didn't want to go to high school, she wanted to work. She worked, but then she found out – just after she was 18 – that she wanted to take some education anyway, and sent the bill for contributions to the father. The father then had to pay a large contribution, much larger than what he had paid before. The answer was that he did not have so much association with this daughter. So she was 21 years old, and he had to pay contributions. Not everyone has a normal relationship with a 21-year-old daughter. The whole of this case shows that the intention in the law is completely wrong. Nav is used here in family feuds. Youths are encouraged not to take responsibility for their own situation. Things like this are to be solved within the family. It's not Nav that's going to solve this. The intention of the Stortinget, from the legislator, was, when we made this law, to ensure children's right to education. They would receive the necessary financial assistance from their parents to complete higher education courses. It's an important principle, and it's important that we have this law. But it's important that we have a code that makes this not abuseable. As rapporteur, I am very pleased that an overall committee is responding in this matter. It is believed that what this case shows was not in line with the intention of the law. An overall committee agrees that we need to have a regulatory review. Nevertheless, it is disappointing that the majority have not agreed that the legislation needs to be amended, but one will wait for a review to take place. The Right Party and the Advance Party are impatient and think we can do two things at once. We have to be able to have a review that ends in a change, because as the situation is now, we can't have it. I have been informed that in the special case where the parents were required for more than NOK 8 000 from their daughter, the parents have no contact with this daughter. They don't know if she's studying, they don't have a bearing, they just get a bill in the post office, and it has to be paid every month. It shows that there is something wrong in the Nav system when such things can continue. So in this case we have to get a move on. I hope that the Council of State sees the comments of an overall committee, and that we get a review of this as soon as possible. So I'm going to take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e855	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e858	As the rapporteur of the matter well briefed and explained, an overall committee has responded to the example and the case of the practice of the child law. We seem to notice that the Council of State has also done, as it then constituted the Council of State, Tora Aasland, in a written answer to a question of 13 January this year, briefed that a review of today's legislation is now under way. The majority in the room believe that it is right to see what is the outcome of this review before we conclude as to whether it is necessary to amend the legislation and the law. The reason is that we cannot pass laws in this country based on individual cases. Nor should we be in a situation where we tighten up legislation so that it has an unintended effect on the opposite path. What is the main purpose of the Children’s Act is to ensure that children are cared for and to ensure that they have the opportunity to take secondary education. We must not get into a situation where children – in a conflict-affected situation between parents – end up between two chairs and do not get the necessary support. The majority therefore believe that it is important to take a thorough examination of the matter, as the Council of State has now stated. We're waiting for it, and then we're going to conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e865	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a good presentation. As the rapporteur behind this proposal, there has been an interesting process to follow. It started with a family at Karmøy contacting me just before Christmas and was reasonably in shock because of a letter they had received from Nav, where Nav thus instructs them, a normal family, to pay 8 112 kroner in social security for the living and housing of their daughter. The back porch was that she had lived in the parents' basement apartment, along with her roommate, which is quite common for very many teenagers. In addition, she had free diet and lodging and went to a high school in the neighborhood. I therefore challenged the Council of State in January, to see if this was really the intention of the legislator or if it was Nav who interpreted this a little too flexibly. Unfortunately, Nav interpreted correctly, while the Council of State did not have the urgency of both the families involved, and also of us from the Right, had. This led to a fairly large public debate. I have received a stack of papers, printouts of enquiries I have received from parents via Facebook, via e-mail, via handwritten letters, expressing my despair. The reason why the Right addresses the matter through a representative proposal is that this is a very bad family policy. So you make a government administration, Nav, a judge of internal family affairs, who is essentially the parents and the children – we are talking here about children to the extent that they are authoritative, they are over 18 years old and go to high school – to solve these challenges in the family. You don't jump to Nav, by all, to solve things like that. This is, from the Right and from my point of view, a bad starting point for what attitudes we're going to teach teenagers. So if you no longer want to live at home, if you rather have a special desire to live for yourself, like many teenagers, at good and bad, at different stages of life, it can lead to a conflict that escalates again, and so you can get Nav to pay rent or stay, even though you know that most teenagers today have a normal relationship with their parents and with the rest of their family, that they live at home, and that all, most parents today happily pay for their kids' expenses, either for education, housing, food, clothing, equipment or whatever it may be. In addition, there are public support schemes for those who cannot afford it. This is also a strange signal to send to those young people who actually get a job, whether they're in the box at Rimi, go with the newspapers or take other jobs to get money for clothes, for text messages, for cinemas – in addition to getting pocket money from their parents. Education is free in Norway. School books are free. Unfortunately, the scheme that has been discovered here simply contributes to large family conflicts. In Kristiansand, a father received a bill of NOK 6000 a month. He had not had contact with his child, who was competent, because of a divorce many years ago. In the meantime, he has established himself with new families, new children, houses, car loans and student loans. He has a gross income of NOK 350,000, which is a very common income, of which Nav requires this danger to pay NOK 6000 a month, when the net payment to run this family, to put it like that, is $18,000. Then he has NOK 13 000 left to feed himself and his family while the wife may be under education. It's obvious that in some of these cases, the sum actually exceeds what the Children's Act has made for contributions before you're 18. And it's pretty ironic that the sum after being authoritative is greater, despite having a free offer. There's something on the right that's responding to. And I'm excited to hear the statements of the Council of State, because until now it has been the Council of State that has briefly answered the issue. In fact, the Secretary of State has been somewhat more sceptical, at least in the opinions, than the Council of State has been. Therefore, it should be interesting to hear what the Council of State is doing, not least in the further follow-up to the case. It's also interesting to us in the opposition that we've actually managed to unite the committee, that we agree. Government parties are not often involved in joint comitology with the opposition. This is one of the few things. That's why I have expectations that the changes will come, that they will come quickly, because there are many families, and some of them also see this debate directly, which has quite large costs. Many people have to raise their debt on their house in order to be able to pay this. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e888	The principle that parents are obliged to support their children during normal schooling has a long tradition in Norway, from the Castberg children's deluge to today, with the natural adjustments to the legislation resulting from changes in society and the changing needs of children and young people. The possibility of establishing or agreeing to a contribution after the age of 18 is also a general scheme under the legislation of other countries, inter alia: our Nordic neighbouring countries. The system we have today is linked to the right to secondary education under the Training Act. Youth who have completed primary school or equivalent is entitled to three years of full-time secondary education and under the Children's Act, parents are obliged to bear the costs of the child's care and education. Since it is common for secondary education to last beyond the age of 18, parents' responsibility to contribute financially to the completion of secondary education will be of a similar duration. I would like to add that after the age of 18, contributions will not only cover the costs of education itself, for example. textbooks, etc., but also expenditure on living, such as food, clothing, housing, etc. I am pleased that the Committee stresses that the Children's Act is precisely to ensure that children receive the financial assistance they need from their parents to complete a higher education course. I therefore feel that there is a broad cross-political consensus on what is the intention of the legislation. Then I have noticed that the proposers are concerned that the legislation contributes to Nav being brought to justice in domestic family matters in which the public should not be involved. Then it's important to say a few words about what today's legislation says. The parent’s caregivers’ obligation applies regardless of whether the child is living with the parents or not. The person or persons who do not live with the child fulfil his/her obligations by paying a monthly grant to the child in the form of a contribution. What is the reason a child lives for himself, e.g. conflicts with parents, shorter school roads, etc., have no bearing on the content and scope of the dependability obligation, and therefore have no bearing on Nav's treatment of contributions after the age of 18. Nevertheless, I believe that the debate that has taken place after we have been informed of some specific issues, both in the media and here in Stortinget, makes it possible that either the legislation or the practice can sometimes get results that many think are unreasonable. Examples in the media have created such a debate, and I therefore think it is wise that we look at it more closely, in line with what the Committee has asked for. As advertised in response to written question No. Question No 617 and Question No 617. 718 we have launched a review of today's system to assess whether the applicable rules are working as intended and whether they are in line with the general legal position. We're going to do that review on a broad basis, that is. that the scheme as a whole will be assessed, not only individually. This means that the conditions mentioned by the proposers — children’s own income, loan and grant schemes, including residents’ grants — will be central to the overall assessment. I want to be concerned that we take this issue seriously, while stressing the importance of not rocking the intentions of the law, namely that all children have the right to be cared for by their parents, and that everyone has the right to complete advanced education. In the light of the review we are now conducting, I would like to assess whether changes should be made to the current system, and of course keep the Storting informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e912	The councils referred to the law, and he also referred to the intention of the law. No one in this Chamber disagrees with the intention of providing financial assistance to those young people who are undergoing training. Nevertheless, I feel that the Council of State does not respond quite clearly. In fact, it is important that this landfill sends out signals about what is acceptable and not acceptable. And while we're debating here today, and while the government is going to have a review of this law, it's parents who get their whole everyday economic ruin because they have to spend a lot of money, instead of the kids living at home. So my question to the council must be: doesn't the council see what signals this sends to the youth today, that if you have a family feud and disagree with your parents, is it just to move from home and send the bill to the parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e921	It is, as was said in a previous post, not every day there is an agreement between the government parties and the opposition about an invitation to the government to go through a problem issue. It is a clear statement that both I and the government parties see that this is a problem we need to address. Then I'm busy doing it without hitting other children and families, because there may be a lot of reasons why conflicts occur, many reasons why children move. And we have to make sure that we're going to make changes, we're not doing it in a way that affects others unfairly. I also note that the opposition does not promote a concrete proposal relating to changes, but wants this to be reviewed. I think it is wise that we take some time to make sure that we do not use the bath water to make changes to the rules that can have a consequence that I do not think the proposers want either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e928	I would like to thank the Council of State for the wording of the proposal. From my point of view as a proposer, and from the right, that means that we have an expectation here. The right and the opposition have been crystal clear ever since the matter became publicly known, that you want a change, and that you want it as quickly as possible. The government and the red-green parties on the Stortinget in the Committee today have said that they want that review, and they want a change. My question to the Council of State is then: Could the Council of State imagine that a letter from the Department of Nav is going out with a steering signal saying that a total increase wants a change in this practice, that, pending the new legislation, you will freeze today's system, and that Nav rather postpones matters, so that parents do not pay the money, when a total increase actually points out that this is something that these parents have to get away from the authoritative children?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e938	As the representative, Mr. Kambe, said in his own statement, it seems that the things that have so far come to light indicate that Nav is not acting contrary to the legislation that exists. Therefore, it is a political responsibility to possibly change the legislation so that we achieve what we want with the law. It is a responsibility it is difficult to roll over to the individual case handler in Nav and the individual Nav office. Therefore, I do not imagine that we should give such a signal without being part of this review. But it is clear that this review will just show us whether we need to change the regulation, or whether that is how we can achieve what we want, through other signals to what kind of practice Nav should have. Then I believe that the representative also agrees with me that we must be careful, so that we do not suddenly change the legislation for other families and children who have not been in the media and for whom it can have a negative effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e945	After the question came up on the political agenda in January, I sent two written questions to the Council of State. The second question was a concrete follow-up. As the Council of State also writes to the Committee and the Stortinget in its letter of reply to us, the aim is to review it. We got an answer to that in January. We have again received an answer to that in May. This suggests that the government is not doing an effective procedure, because the wording from the first answer, in January, is exactly what the Committee and the Stortinge get in May. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of States present a binding work plan for which the Stortinge is briefed, which will ensure that any changes can take effect from 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e952	What was said in January was that we wanted to start a work. What I'm saying today is that we've started it. It is, as the representative knows, always such that we should do a serious and good job, it takes some time. I would rather spend the time needed to be sure that we do not make changes that affect children and families that neither the representative nor I want to frame, rather than going too fast. That being said, of course, I have a desire to do this as quickly as possible. But that review will show us, is, of course, the extent of issues like this, the extent of any other issues that there may have unfortunate consequences for changing the legislation. Those answers will also tell us something about how complicated or easy it is to get changed results, and therefore also how long it takes. Therefore, I will not commit myself to any particular time until we have completed the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e959	The cord shift has thus been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4349]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e977	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4349]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e993	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1002	This is a proposal for a representative to set up an independent fiscal council. Such advice may be defined as publicly funded organisations established by the national authorities responsible for providing fiscal analyses and assessments without political influence from government or parliament. These are the proposers who have wanted to be investigated and put forward proposals by the government. In the context of the examination of the case, the Committee has also met the head of the Swedish Finance Policy Council, Lars Calmfors. No matter how you vote in this case, I think everyone in the committee thought it was a very useful meeting. Maybe it influenced someone to see a little bit more positive on the proposal than you would otherwise. So it's a majority and a minority. The minority, which consists of the Advance Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, want to endorse the proposal of the representatives. In the rationale for this, we point out that, on the basis of democratic power-sharing principles, it is important both that the policy be characterised by transparency and that power does not become too concentrated. In the sector we are talking about here, we believe that an independent advice may be appropriate to give independent professionals an institutionalised arena to see the authorities – let's say – a little in the cards and provide an independent, professional assessment of the policies pursued. Of course, there are others who are doing the same today. We have the OECD, we have the SSB, and we have the IMF and others, but an institutionalised environment here in Norway in the way proposed by the proposers now, we do not have, while we see that this is something that is becoming increasingly topical in countries around us, and where this kind of advice has been established in several of our neighbouring countries in recent years. I would like to stress that the Council should not only be a kind of expert field, but that its function should be to provide professional assessment and advice. Of course, it is up to the elected representatives to decide and reconcile different considerations and make the specific decisions. But it will be, I think, positive for the public debate to emerge, for example. economic counter-representations of different choices made by the authorities. If one then looks at the Swedish experience, it is not that this is a kind of advice that comes with unilateral criticism of the government. Examples of the opposition’s response have also been seen in the public debate as a result of the input made by the Swedish Finance Policy Council. I notice that the majority, who don't want to go for this now, are saying it: ‘The majority do not consider it appropriate to introduce a Financial Policy Council now.’ I guess that means there's never so little chance that you can come to a different conclusion in a while. I also notice that the majority – the government parties – think that the experiences Lars Calmfors presented in the committee were very interesting, and that we will follow closely the experiences of Sweden. With today's majority rule, it's not often you get as far as it once is, so a little bit of a credit is in it for the proposers. So I'm going to take up the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1024	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1027	There is no doubt that we all want openness and debate on the economic policy we are pursuing here in the country. In a democracy where we're doing the big tasks together, it's obvious that there's always a lively debate about how we spend the big money. It is also obvious that economic policy and its results are being assessed on an ongoing basis by independent institutions. Today, many environments are constantly assessing how the economic policy we conduct works. These are domestic environments such as: SSB, and there are internationally highly recognised institutions such as: IMF and OECD. In addition, we have a number of very good economic environments at our universities, colleges and institutes that also do their analyses, which are available to us who are decision-makers. The size has its own investigative department, and, in special needs, samples are set up to highlight issues that have a bearing on the design of our economic policies. It's not long since we got a NOU from the Financial Crisis Committee. Today, the Ministry of Finance has appointed a Advisory Forum on Model and Methodological Issues to be chaired by Professor Steinar Holden. There is no reason to believe that this Council will not be independent in its advice to the Ministry, and that the advice they give will become available to us. The majority, in their comments, are concerned about and underline the importance of different traditions and ways of thinking in economic environments. The question today is whether we need another body to continuously assess the economic policy pursued. We who sit in the Stortingen make our decisions on the basis of the knowledge, analysis and advice produced. This is not least the case in economic policy. The preparation of the basic material will have a major impact on the decisions taken on the use of the Community funds. But it is important to stress that we are elected by the people who take the final decisions on the priorities of economic policy, not trade union economists and other experts. In that case, we could just lay down our responsibilities in the Financial Committee. It is the political discretion that ultimately determines, after the matter is informed by different environments and different considerations are weighed against each other. In economic policy, the basic knowledge of the decisions is very important. The majority of the committee believes that today we have sufficient environments that give us the knowledge we need to make good decisions. Norway has been through the financial crisis in a good way. We're still repeating that for each other. Business in our country is doing well, and we have high employment and low unemployment. Compared to almost every country in the world, we are doing very well. That doesn't mean everything can't get even better. An open and bold debate on economic policy is also necessary in our country. The right shall be praised for having taken up the importance of transparency in economic policy. But I am uncertain whether an independent fiscal council will add another dimension to this openness and debate. The majority of the Committee rejects a Financial Policy Council in this round. That doesn't mean we're unilaterally negative to an independent fiscal council after, for example. Swedish model. After meeting the head of the Swedish Council, who was also a very good and informative meeting, we will also follow the experience of Sweden, further. But at this point, we do not find it appropriate to introduce such a fiscal council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1042	First of all, allow me to congratulate the Right as the proposer of this proposal. That is a very good proposal. It's thoughtful. They probably didn't find out the powder, to say it like that, it comes as thoughts based on how you've gained experience with this elsewhere. But this is a very good proposal to which the Progress Party gives its full support. We welcome this proposal. Then we have to note that the government parties – at least, as they say, at the moment – do not want to go into this. I registered a press release from the Ministry of Finance earlier today that an Advisory Forum on Model and Methodology issues has been set up to provide technical advice related to the Ministry of Finance’s work on macroeconomic issues. So it came today. It may well be a mere coincidence. But I guess when you're against an independent professional board, the opposite is a dependent professional board. I found with great interest that in the advisory panel set up by the Ministry today, the department itself will also be strongly represented. So that's not what we want. We want independent professional advice. Based on the experience we gained from the conversation and the round we had with the head of the Swedish Trade Council, there is no doubt that independence here is important, if this council is to be taken seriously. I think the definition, as the proposers describe it in the proposal, is very good: ‘Independent fiscal councils may be defined as publicly funded organisations established by the national authorities responsible for providing fiscal analyses and assessments without political influence from the government or parliament.’;» That is what is at least the basis of the Progress Party when we want to support such a creation. The fact that the government parties are not in favour of it at this stage is quite correct, but I note that there is an overall opposition that supports such an establishment. This could be a reality after the 2013 elections. In Norway, we have Norway’s Bank Watch, which is probably the closest to us today to such advice as we want and which is mentioned in the document. I find that professional environments, political environments and public authorities appreciate the input from Norway's Bank Watch. There's probably a reason why a council should be set up, as an overall opposition is called for through the setting. In addition to that, I would like to commend the rapporteur for a good presentation of the positive arguments, which should have been enough arguments for the government parties to support such an establishment. Unfortunately, it is not at this point in time. But I welcome the fact that we are going to put this Council in place at a later stage, by a different majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1062	Let me first express my pleasure at the fact that the bourgeois parties are united in the recommendation in this position to set up an independent fiscal council. I am also pleased that during the discussion of this matter the government parties have expressed a somewhat more open position than what we might initially have met. The case rapporteur, Hans Olav Syversen, and the representative Ulf Leirstein have explained well the matter and our reasons for promoting the proposal, but only a few comments from my side in addition. What many will ask themselves is the question: what is there to do, what will be examples of matters such advice could address? Let me then just mention two questions that I think could be very relevant to such advice. One is to evaluate the use of instruments during the financial crisis. A debate that we have to a very small extent is: Did the policy that was implemented work? We spent $10 billion extra from the Pension Fund during the financial crisis. I believe that such a Council of Finance Policy should have asked the questions: Was that the correct dosage? Was there a proper distribution between tax cuts and the use of money across public budgets? What can we learn from this for the future? The other thing will be to look forward. There is a broad consensus that we are facing significant challenges towards 2020–2030 in the form of more pensioners and fewer workers per pensioner. At the same time, it is very rare that we ask the question to what extent the budgets adopted contribute to making it easier or more difficult to meet tomorrow's challenges. We have a very competent finance department, which, in liaison with the SSB, the Norwegian Bank and the Financial Supervisory Authority, contributes to good analysis in the debate. But we see – I was saying – with the stealthness that has been in the past few weeks when it comes to managing these different institutions, that there may be a need also to have a different environment, an independent environment, that can see the power in the cards and have other analyses of how things are done. It is true that there is a Financial Policy Council in Sweden that contributes heavily to the political debate – to the joy of some and to the disgust of others. As far as I am aware, the joy and indignation are fairly evenly distributed between opposition and position in Sweden. But they contribute well in the open debate on society. It is similar in other countries, and I do not think it is without reason that the OECD has also recommended Norway to establish an independent fiscal council. I also believe that the parallel to Norway's Bank Watch, which Ulf Leirstein's representative drew out, is good. Norway's Bank Watch provides good input to Norway's Bank through its annual analyses, and as far as I have understood, Norway's Bank has also listened to the advice that comes from there. I also agree with Mr Kristoffersen's view that it is important to distinguish between subject and policy. I see no contradictions between the position and the opposition in this respect. The purpose of such advice is to provide an even better foundation for the decisions we take, and that from time to time we can also have a debate in which we evaluate the policies that have been implemented. So I am pleased that through the proposal we have managed to drive the debate one step forward, and I consider the somewhat more open attitude of the government parties towards such advice in this position as a sign that this can also become a reality in Norway gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1083	The Norwegian fiscal environment is characterised by considerable competence and is fundamentally serious and, to a large extent, independent. But there is little, and most tone-setting people have the same background, the same understanding of the challenges and the same approach to monetary policy, action rules, financial market regulation, etc. It has shown not least the so-called “college” of the winter – as the representative Sanner was in it – the exchange of positions in the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank, the SSB and the Financial Supervisory Authority. It's a small circle of people switching to bemoaning the most important positions. However, I would like to stress that they are all very competent, and that I have nothing to put on any of the appointments that the Ministry of Finance has made. However, the left shares the view of the proposers that an independent fiscal council may be appropriate to give independent professional economists an institutionalised arena to view the authorities in the cards and provide an independent, professional – and usually alternative – assessment of the policy pursued. The proposers refer – rightly – to the good experience gained with such advice in Sweden. The 2010 Swedish Financial Policy Council report is an interesting reading in a political context. Among other things, the Council warns politicians against promising unfunded reforms in the forthcoming election campaign. It is recommended that, if a more expansionary policy is to be pursued, the free revenues of municipalities should be strengthened. The so-called job tax deduction is positive, but it is critical to keep the ROT deduction when the economic cycle turns around. All of this is interesting, and it contributes to enriching the Swedish debate. The recommendations are obviously independent and have no political impact. That is why I cannot, with my best will, grasp the possible reluctance to introduce a similar arrangement in Norway that the Minister of Finance and the Government parties stand for. What are you really afraid of? Swedish economic policies are also continuously assessed by the Swedish Statistical Centre, the OECD and the IMF — in addition to the EU. In addition, Swedish public authorities have a more open and less political mandate than in Norway, and there are more academic-economic environments than in Norway. In other words, Sweden was initially more independent, politically assessed. Nevertheless, the value of setting up an independent fiscal council was seen, although it may be politically unpleasant for the government and the government's parliamentary basis. An independent Financial Policy Council, modelled on Sweden and Denmark, would contribute to more votes in and enrich the political debate. Six years of majority government have clearly shown that there is one thing you are not particularly concerned about, is the alternative and other considerations. It's just to look at several of the things we're dealing with in Stortinget. With a small guess, the majority usually refer to letters from the state councils, sentence – no argument, no debate. The falling out of the open hearings in Stortinget is also an example of a little giving up. You like to talk to deaf ears. All things are, when they finally come to Stortinget, finished farting and negotiated. The result is that democracy is confused, and the interest in politics and social debate is diminishing. Also, the fact that the role of the Storting has been severely weakened after six years of majority rule suggests that it is a good idea – yes, I would almost say a necessity – with an independent fiscal council. It is also the view of the Left that it would strengthen the interest and legitimacy of a Financial Policy Council if this were directly placed under the auspices of the Stortinget, regardless of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1100	It's basically little I'm afraid, at least when it comes to debate and advice that a state council should have. There may be other things, but it doesn't belong in the hall here. Otherwise, I think there is a broad consensus that openness and debate on economic policy are important. I am very much concerned that the good debate on economic issues should take place both out there and at the same time in the United Kingdom. There we all have a responsibility to ensure that we have a good and lively economic debate. And then it's also pointed out from several speakers here that we have a lot of people involved in the economic debate, both to the Storing, to the government. It's important to see what's happening in the Norwegian economy. We have good results in the economy, and it should also guarantee that – and this has been done to a large extent independently of governments, and then we weigh it a little like and unlike as we feel it in many ways – over time we have done something that is right. A good example of this is, for example: oil policy, from the first discussion of the oil business in the Stortinget in 1974 until what is now happening around the disposal of the oil income and not least the disposal of the State pension fund. That, I think, is good examples of one having broad discussions and finding broad solutions to questions in the Stortinget. Then it is that in the debate on various economic issues there is disagreement about the objectives, priorities and choices of instruments in economic policy. There is no independent advice that can cure. It may provide a better basis for decision-making, but that different parties will have different policy weightings is an important part of the living political discussion. It is also right that the representative, Mr Sanner, pointed out that a responsible and credible fiscal policy requires both the will and the ability to prioritise the long-term. One of the issues raised by the representative Sanner, that of demographic challenges, has been a major issue both for me as Minister of Finance, as head of the Pension Commission, and not least for the whole discussion we have had in the Storting on the challenges. There we are at the very heart of the discussion on, among other things. disposal of oil revenues, how we handle the Pension Fund in the future. A sort of conclusion you can draw is that yes, a fiscal council can help us to get a better decision-making base, but a fiscal council can neither serve as a guarantee nor a substitute for political will and ability. Then it is important that there is broad confidence in the analyses and assessments that underpin the formulation of economic policy. These include: the background to the fact that the Ministry of Finance has now appointed a sample to strengthen contact with the Ministry’s economic disciplines, and that is the background to the sample we have now set up for model and method issues. We have put great emphasis on compiling a broad and professionally strong sample. I think we have done well, and the selection is as well-knownly led by Professor Steinar Holden and has nine other members who have significant both professional and debated weight. On the government side, we suggest that there should be an open and broad debate on key social issues, including the formulation of economic policy. Media, a number of individuals, institutions and organisations will play a part in that discussion. For example, in the context of the perspective communication that we are now working on in the ministry, I will place great emphasis on obtaining advice from many groups, young people who are older, highly professional environments such as more general policy environments. As Minister of Finance, I place great emphasis on listening to the advice that comes up. It is important for me to stress that on a basic basis I am not opposed to creating a professional economic sample, but I believe that it is possible to get good recordings as we do now. The job is essentially that, as politicians, we are able to do the right and good priorities, both now and those that will carry forward in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1124	When I hear the Minister of Finance, I feel that we're not really very disagreeable. However, when one comes to the conclusion that an independent fiscal council may be set up, there are two different conclusions in the majority versus the opposition. That's all right. But I stunned a little, as the Minister of Finance may have realized, and as I was in the middle of it, when I saw this press release today from the Ministry of Finance saying that this advisory board had now been put down. For this is where a professional body has been set up to provide advice to the ministry, and that is very commendable, but it goes right into the heart of what we wanted by supporting the right-wing proposal. In addition to so-called independent experts, there are also appointed people directly from the department itself, so the council you now appoint is not very independent. When the government sees the need for this sample itself, why could one not throw around and actually be more positive about starting an investigation into how to get an independent fiscal council?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1132	I don't think there is a lack of independent economic advice either for government or for growth in economic policy, so I don't think there are any major shortcomings in this area. I have also pointed out in the letter sent to the Committee that the Ministry of Finance will draw up advice on method development, which is important because a fundamental prerequisite for a good discussion of economic policy is that there is also a broad consensus on the basis of facts, i.e. on the understanding of reality. Then the policy comes to the fore. Otherwise, I think we might have to think a little bit about what's going on in politics too, because compared to when I started in the Stortinget – and that's quite a long time ago – it's evolved a kind of line where a lot of politics has moved out of the big hall, i.e., review, audit, independent advice, etc. In fact, I also think it's an important point that we're thinking about how we're going to move the debate back to the big room. But it's a broader discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1139	That's it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1142	As far as the latter is concerned, it is clear that a majority government can in its own way contribute to the adoption of more of the debate and the real decisions in the Stortinget. But back to the matter, I sat and listened to the Minister of Finance's comments. I heard many arguments for setting up an independent fiscal council, but I have to admit that I heard no arguments against it. I heard on the contrary that the Minister of Finance said that in order to conclude, such advice could give us a better basis for decision. So the finance minister added that it is possible to get good input without having such advice. The last thing I agree with, but I think the Minister of Finance had a very good argument for, namely getting a better decision-making base. Then the Minister of Finance showed the perspective message, which is probably coming in the spring of 2013. My invitation to the Minister of Finance is to re-examine that discussion when presenting the perspective message, that it may have a broader assessment of such advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1151	Before we get that far, the Storting will have had the opportunity to discuss the Financial Crisis Committee and its follow-up as an example. It is clear that in the context of a statement of intent, it is both reasonable and right that one should also facilitate the discussion of some of the long challenges facing the representative Sanner himself. It was: has counter-cyclical policy worked as intended? What kind of macroeconomic challenges do we have? What about the generation accounts and their development? There are many interesting points to address, but my main argument against creating such advice – at least if there is to be some kind of advice to evaluate economic policy – is actually what I was in at the end of the answer to the previous line, and that is that it can help move a part of the job that Stortinget is going to do when it comes to controlling the government's office and a discussion about it in Stortinget. We have to make sure that we do not devalue the policy by moving too much of it out of the landfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1160	It is of course nice that the Council of State is looking after Stortinget's woe and well and therefore does not want to go along with the proposal. The Stortinget may also have a meaning that there is reason to stress. After all, there is a large minority here who believe that this Council could actually stimulate a better political debate on the basis of which we actually have to decide. As I understand it, there's a two-part argument from the government that you don't want to go into the council. One is that we have enough environments like that. The second is that the elected representatives get to take the job it is, and you don't need any financial advice. That's the premise I don't agree with. My question is, what is it in the Swedish experience that suggests that it should hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1167	Now, in fact, the Swedish Council is relatively fresh – as far as I remember, it was established in 2007. This means that Swedish politics has lived well both with and without a council, yes they have actually lived the longest without such a financial policy council. Sweden is one of the countries — of course, a little independent of political governments and what one agrees and disagrees with — that has consistently managed well without an economic council. So I don't think you should give too much attention to the fact that the creation of such a council is alpha and omega to get a good debate on economic policy. I really think that this debate is very good, because it focuses on something that the Ministry of Finance is also concerned about, and that is that the Stortinget and the participants, who are key players in the economic, political debate, get the best decision-making base possible. If we agree on that, this debate has basically had its mission. I have been a member of this hall for so many years that I actually also have the heart for the Greatness of well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1174	The President may say that he thanks, but let it endure for another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1177	As many people have been involved, this is quite central, seafaring, and economics is not an exact science. There are, to the most extent, very different opinions about, not least economic policy and how to prioritise. What is lacking in Norwegian society is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a discussion of the economic priorities, so that we can revitalise the People's Government. There are many experts, so-called experts, in the field. What's too little of it is people who are related to the productive work life, and who may help to nuance the theories of the experts. Theories depend entirely on the assumptions that a taker makes, and in very many cases, the assumptions are taken on a failed basis. We've seen that many times through history. There's something here about getting a common sense of reality. It is maritimely essential, but in the same way that economic policies have different positions, reality is also very different. What is the view of the Central Party in terms of economic policy and expert advice, as has been said here, is that we need to look at how to deal with the enormous challenges we now face, when we have the high cost level, while at the same time modernising and transforming our business life. So it is simply a closer link between the financial economy and the real economy. That's where the big challenges come from, and that's what happened in the Financial Crisis Committee: The connection to the real economy was far too weak, which is what has been said to lead to a crisis. So the question is, how are we going to develop our business life at a high cost while creating products, we who have a great ability to pay? In view of the view of the Centre Party, with the consumption level we have in Norway today, it is not the challenge to facilitate greater consumption growth, and therefore, Gunnar Stålsett’s old slogan in the Centre Party: ‘Growth is not to consume more, but to manage better’, is more valid than ever. That's why I just want to end by saying that in such a financial policy council, the practitioners should be in there to nuance theories, the models, to get this connected with what's central to us. Based on our advantage, people's great knowledge, our huge natural resources and the creative capacity that comes out, not least, through the many seafaring entrepreneurs that we have in the country, how are we going to reconcile these interests and values, so that we can ensure a vibrant, well-paid working life in the future, which at the same time does not overload our natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1188	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 4349]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1219	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1228	I am not going to have a long debate on the details of these two proposals, but I am going to start by saying that municipal property taxes are, in principle, the only tax one has the right to self-determination in local democracy, and that they stimulate both increased and improved local democracy, and opportunities for local adjustment in relation to the need for local services are undeniable. In that perspective, it is also a pleasure – for me at least – that there is quite a broad consensus on the Stortinget to preserve the municipal property tax and the possibility that lies there. It is then that all parties other than one, as far as I have registered, who believe that it should continue like this. So I'll go a little bit into the proposal from the Right, which I think has some relevant issues that it's worth looking at, and that goes about how to value the property. In the cold water of the legal cases that have been, and insofar as the letter from the Council of State is also, there is every reason to get into that problem with fresh eyes. I am very pleased that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee also signals that he will do so, and that changes may be made to take account of recent judgments. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, on a total rejection, they have complied with what they obviously realized it was going to be a debate on how to cover the loss, the financial loss, for the municipalities. I also do not want to comment on as much of the individual proposals they have made as a substitute – there are three proposals that I think are well described in the letter from the Minister of Finance – but in general it is that if you take from someone an economic opportunity and have to compensate for it, it means that you take from something else. Some of the core elements of an ever-recurring debate with the Progress Party and us in the position is that if you take from someone and give to someone else, someone gets hurt, no matter how you count on it. In his letter from the Minister of Finance, he writes about the three elements the Progress Party has signalled here as possible sources of income for the municipalities. There are also some actual errors in the proposal that the Minister of Finance has described in the letter, to which I fully subscribe. Besides that, I have nothing more to add than to refer to Stortingen to follow the majority voting in the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1239	The paper now deals with two different representative proposals on property taxes. Although it is the same theme, the proposals are rather different in their approach to the issues related to the practice of municipal property tax. I am the case rapporteur for a proposal by the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Jan Tore Sanner, Arve Kambe, Svein Flätten and Ingerd Schou, which is about the need to modernise and update the law on property taxation and commercial property, and will use most of my contribution to this proposal. The proposal of representatives from the Right is, in my view, both very good and important, because it addresses a very unclear legal situation based on a law that is 100 years old and which is not at all consistent with today's business and business structure. This means that some enterprises have increased the property tax base by several hundred percent during the night due to new and very arbitrary taxing of the property stock and the machinery park. One such example is Hydro Holmestrand, which, after re-accreditation, increased the property tax rate from 100 million. NOK 900 million. kr. Many municipalities have recently tried to make or decide to extend the land tax base for industrial activities by including most of the production machinery in the value base. As a general rule, these should not be included in the tax base. However, it is an exception, but the exceptions are unclearly written by the legislator and differing practices from the municipality to the municipality. This has led to a number of legal proceedings relating to the practice of different municipalities, with some quite different conclusions. Enterprises with localisation close to each other are treated differently, and both business and municipal governments and administrations are asking for a clearer regulatory framework because today’s legislation is manifestly deficient, and case law is based on the interpretation of the 100-year-old urban tax law. We need a new legislation that determines that property taxes are a tax on real estate and local hydropower production and petroleum landing facilities. Point! Moreover, the development of industry and society with larger, more environmentally friendly and more modern integrated production machines must not provide the basis for increased taxes. Rather, it should be the opposite. A new legislation must also be based on market value, where available, and property in district municipalities must be assessed in line with the real market price. I believe that this can be done in the simplest way by removing the specific definition of ‘works and uses’ from the property tax base only covered by real estate property after a normal understanding of the concept. However, there should still be the possibility for municipalities to print property taxes limited to industrial activities, see. the current limitation related to ‘works and use’. I hope that the Council of State will look at such an opportunity to clean up. The minority in the position, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, also requests that the valuation rules be revised and clarified. In this context, a safety valve should be introduced – a ceiling as a percentage of the documented turnover value according to the model of the property tax rules equivalent to 30 pst. the market value. Until a new legislation is in place, it is essential, in my view, that the practice we see in more and more municipalities on re-entry be frozen. The Left, Right and Christian People's Party supports the main lines of the representative proposal, while the Progress Party has chosen to lay down something on the side because they have promoted their own proposal to abolish the municipal property tax. Government parties are – as usual – in brief, and refer to the Council of State's letter only this time. It is not so bad in itself this time, all the time when the letter of the Council of State actually gives the proposers right on all points. What remains to be seen is whether there will be something more than a formulated willingness to look at the issues in the draft representative. But I assume that both the government councils and representatives of the government parties will come back to their posts. With regard to the proposal by the Progress Party to abolish the entire property tax, a proposal by the Left is not supported. The left wants increased municipal autonomy. We want municipalities to become more diverse and take more decisions locally and to solve tasks in different ways for the benefit of their citizens. This means that the Left is both too small to designate state resources, and is too much freedom to determine the municipal taxpayer. This also means that the Left will reintroduce municipal corporation tax to stimulate and reward local business development. This does not mean, however, that the Left considers it a good idea to introduce property taxes in all municipalities. Rather, in most cases, the Left will vote against the introduction of property taxes and to reduce or remove them where they are introduced. But then there are also municipalities where the Left, like both the Advance Party and other parties, have voted to introduce property taxes. This is exactly what municipal freedom is all about. Finally, I would like to address proposal No. 1 in the setting, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1265	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1268	The Party of Presidents shall promote in case No. 9 proposals for the repeal of the Property Tax Act from 1 January 2012. Furthermore, we ask the government to review and convert the natural resource tax so that municipalities can obtain income from their natural resources based on the most accurate valuation possible. In addition, we propose that the government return part of the corporate tax to the municipalities. At the same time, we ask that the government make better transitional arrangements to ensure the local economy. The proposal has been taken up. Property tax is a particularly unfair form of taxation. This is because the tax is not related to whether one has had any return on the property or to what extent the property is borrowed. The property tax happens randomly and non-socially and not according to ability. The representative Breen was in that you take from someone and give to someone. No, you don't. You take from everyone over and over again – that's what you do with the property tax. In 2009, 299 municipalities introduced property taxes. 166 of these had taxed property on dwellings. Developments are going in the wrong direction, and more and more municipalities are introducing or considering the introduction of property taxes. Let me therefore commend the municipalities that have resisted the temptation to introduce such a tax. People's property has gradually become a precious treasure item. This is not because it is natural to tax property, but simply because everyone needs a place to live, and housing and property is difficult to move on. Income should, in principle, be taxed only once. However, property is taxed several times, as taxes have already been paid on the income for which the property has been acquired, and the document fee for the acquisition, where applicable inheritance tax and VAT on costs and charges. In addition, property is already subject to annual taxes on wealth. Adding an annual property tax to the top of this is unreasonable. In the case of cabins, property taxes appear to be particularly unreasonable, since a owner of a cabin usually has a fixed dwelling in another municipality and therefore does not have the right to vote and influence in the cabin municipality. In many cases, the landlord also confiscates at least municipal services. Property taxes are faltering and often very unsocial. Children’s families in the start-up phase are affected because they tend to have high debts, single-age because they often only have a pension to live on. The property tax also affects tenants, who get a claim on the rent when the landlord gets an increase in their expenses. The rules governing the valuation of property imply that the municipality is taxing on a flat-rate basis. In many cases, little consideration is given to wear and tear, while a valuation is made on the basis of land and buildings with a minimum inspection. The consequence is that the fare is set too high and that the owner of the property pays taxes on values that he does not own. As from 2011, the possibility to charge property taxes has also been extended to commercial buildings. The intention is to create an illusion that such a tax will then be paid by rich, private traders, but the truth will of course be that such a tax will be passed on to customers through increased prices. The pressure is increased by proposals for the introduction of property taxes. Several advisers present this as suggestions in the municipalities. This is unfortunate. Municipalities that choose to introduce property taxes tend to justify this with the need to strengthen the welfare of the municipality. The ability to print property taxes makes municipalities less consider new, creative solutions to solve welfare issues. There is less willingness to cut costs, reduce the number of employees or seek cooperation or pooling with other municipalities, and the likelihood is great that the municipalities that impose property taxes, if not for a long time, will again be struggling to solve their required welfare tasks. It can be certain that if Stortinget allows municipalities to introduce a new tax, some municipalities will avail themselves of such an option, no matter how unreasonable the tax would be. On the wall of my office I've hung up an old story about Donald Duck. In that story, Donald travels with Viking ships from Norway to the United States. In the United States, Donald appoints himself king of North America, and then he does something that is natural for many red-green politicians, in this case represented by Donald: he introduces a new tax. He introduces a tax on oxygen. All the residents have to put on an oxygenometer, and they have to pay a fee per breath. Perhaps there is an idea the Minister of Finance can assess in the next round!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1289	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1292	I was at a seminar on creative funding last week, and there should have been previous speeches. But I even visited a company in the Odalen yesterday, which really must be District Norway's dream. From nothing in 2003, a female founder has created its own company of seven employees, established itself in an international market and has great ambitions. She is research-oriented and broke out and started for herself after many years in the international group Rescon Mapei. In short: a dream for every municipality. Such founders we want. This is not the traditional BU founder who is being supported in creating half his job. Here is innovation, ambition and competitiveness. She and her company, Elmico, then bought their own premises in South Odal for approx. 2.5 million. NOK 2 years ago. A closed case would have a new life. So South Odal introduced property taxes, and the valuer came to visit. The municipality welcomed her and congratulated her with a rate of 7.6 million. kr in a plant they should be happy that someone took the risk of starting business, i.e. nearly 4 million. kr more than they had bought the plant for the previous year! After the complaint, the tariff was reduced to 4.6 million kroner. NOK, but that's still two times what they bought for. One would like to claim that they were purchased cheaply, but that is exactly what shows the problem. In large parts of District Norway, the risk is high by investing in such facilities. They are, in principle, not negotiable if things go wrong and definitely not at prices approaching ‘technical values’, as the legal instrument has opened up for use in property taxes. Right-wing advises all municipalities not to impose property taxes, but recognises that this is a decision of local democracy. However, after legal rulings on which technical values can be used — and the removal of municipal share of corporate tax — we see the outlines of a major challenge. First, the municipalities do not see any direct benefit from the companies. The risk is already greatest by investing in construction and construction in economically weak areas. No one can be found to buy or to take over if it goes wrong. In addition, property taxes are now at risk of being taxed on the values that no outsiders can see. There is a need to limit the ability of municipalities to destroy their own potential for value creation, jobs and growth. The law sets a percentage tax on property of 0,7 pst. Property taxes apply whether you make money or not, or whether you have business in the premises or not, and it's hard to carry. The use of technical values produces in many ways the same effect as a higher tax rate. We therefore propose that a roof be placed on the property tax base of 30 p.m. of the market value, in the same way as that of the taxes on wealth. Machinery and equipment shall not be part of the basis of property taxes. However, the law is perceived as unclear, and we see that it is included in many places. Here it has to be cleaned up. At the same time, a number of requests arise for county access to require municipalities to introduce property taxes and ‘use all income opportunities’ to be considered for the allocation of discretionary funds. We record that the Council of State in its letter rejects this as a problem, but the signals from very many municipalities are quite unambiguous. It is perceived that the county demands it. This can be easily addressed by the government by taking back the formulation they removed in 2006 and which was crystal clear that such requirements would not be met. We record that the Council of State acknowledges that he sees the challenge we have pointed out, but especially with regard to the tariffs and developments that are taking place, we believe it is so urgent to have a different code in place that we believe that we should encourage the freezing of all redeployments around the municipalities for the time being. So a little comment on the proposal of the Progress Party, because we have put in our own proposal there, which is that we reverse the cab tax, which was introduced in 2006. It is a democratic problem that you do not have the right to vote in the municipality in which you are taxed. With this I address the proposals that the Right either stand alone about or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1313	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1316	Those who had to listen to this debate probably get the impression that the parties Right and the Advance Party are skeptical, and even essentially opponents of property taxes. The matter cannot be presented more skeptically. What's at the core is that property tax is the taxation of the right-hand side. One is against property taxes, and in most of the tax debates we have here, one is also against an income tax that goes on the principle of ability, and we know that the internationally accepted tax system is significant property taxes. The need for property taxes is growing as ownership of property becomes more and more volatile. And when national states' ability to tax this activity becomes less, well, then they seek to tax what cannot be moved out of the country. So there's a very special discussion that we once again have here, where the Progress Party and the Right give the impression that this is not their ideology's tax form. Norway received property taxes very early. As I've said several times from this pulpit, we had property taxes in the meaning of food tax until 1881. It was then replaced by property taxes in principle and income taxes for persons. Such conditions are today, property taxes should complement our main forms of taxation, namely income taxes and property taxes. Property tax is a form of land interest tax. It is paid both by persons and by companies. It is determined by municipality, it is municipal decision-making and is not part of the income equalisation system. A broad and long tradition in Norway, which has been fairly well developed, is property tax on power plants and on dwellings and cabins which have gained significant capital appreciation as a result of public investment. When the public organises through its paid investments in infrastructure of which the owner-occupiers benefit, it is not unreasonable for the government to include any of this capitalisation in the form of a property tax. Similarly, it is quite natural that municipalities can charge property taxes on power plants. Thus, municipalities, not only the state, will also benefit from the super-profit that power plant owners receive from power activities when the municipalities have made their natural resources available. When the problems arise, it is based on the property tax law that we have today, which provides the basis for taxing houses, regardless of where in the municipalities they are. It also provides the basis for taxing many commercial buildings. Based on the basic premises for property taxes – which I have now tried to sketch – namely, taxing power plants that have a super-profit, commercial activities with a super-profit and housing and cabins where public infrastructure has contributed to a significant capital increase, far higher than the capital increase in areas that have not received such infrastructure, we find it difficult to tax residential buildings and dwellings that do not fall within this category. What is the central party's advice and line in these questions is to be concerned with having low tariffs in relation to market value by such an extension of the property tax base for municipalities, and that a person also uses low tariffs to ensure that the property tax is in line with what I have now discussed. An additional difficulty is the taxation of industrial buildings. What are commercial buildings? In addition to the building, to what extent does the means of production come as the basis for the tariff? Section 4 of the Property Tax Act states: «Workers and accessories and things that can be classified as such shall be included in the tax base for property taxes on works and uses. It includes typical industrial plants – factories, power plants, etc. Machines, etc. only which forms an integral part of the installation shall be taken into account. A stand-alone machine will therefore not be included. On the other hand, the machine is not required to be so integrated in the building that it cannot be detached from the building without significant damage. This is a need to look at. The Ministry of Finance has said that in a letter to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1344	First of all, the principle of which the second proposal for a representative is really about: whether you want to ban municipal property taxes or not. Here the Christian People's Party, like the majority, has a clear position, namely that we want property tax to remain a voluntary municipal tax within a state-determined framework. With regard to the proposal of the Right-wing Representatives, the Christian People's Party supports it. And I think the debate today shows – as was mentioned – that property tax is more and more seen as a fiscal tax, contrary to what was the reason when it came, namely that it should be a compensation for services provided by the municipalities. The example that Gunnar Gundersen referred to, I think extra well supports that there is a fiscal tax, where the desktop takes over the world of reality. That's why I think it's absolutely the basis for giving a constraint, as we've done in the property tax that we have. As far as II is concerned, I think it is high time to make a clarification, and that clarification could perhaps be made here in the Chamber – I address my recommendation to the Minister of Finance, who was very concerned that it was the elected representatives who were now to make decisions – instead of having repeated legal proceedings on the issues of property taxes on machines and equipment, and where the municipalities have been given themselves, with the good help of various tax authorities, that most of them can qualify for the collection of the most property tax, without the material considerations seem to have been taken care of. As far as IV is concerned, as far as the Minister of Finance is concerned, there is nothing in the guidelines today that gives the county councillors the pretext not to provide discretion. But that there has been a theme in different municipalities that you have not been given discretion because you do not have property tax, there is no doubt about it. So a clarification seems to me to be fine. For one who has the background of Oslo City Council, it's interesting to see what kind of political pot property tax is going to be. I have to say that I actually didn't think I was going to experience that Rune Gerhardsen, as a representative of the Oslo City Council who for many years has turned on big business for the benefit of property taxes, has now come to the conclusion that it is a matter he no longer wants on the political agenda. He can guarantee, on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and Red, that even if they were to have a majority in the local elections for the autumn, there will be no property tax in Oslo. It is remarkable, and it is not entirely in line with the comments to which the majority of the parties refer in all respects. But at least it's good that there's something that causes local involvement, and there's something that causes local involvement, it's property tax. In this way, at least one political theme has been secured that stimulates debate. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the proposal on which the Christian People's Party and the Right stand together, namely to amend Section 28 of the Property Tax Act so that more consideration can be given to social matters. It is even the case that there are some people who are on properties but who have little income. And there could be a basis for further broadening social concerns in relation to today's legislation. I'm a little surprised that the majority parties are not interested in looking at such a social angle.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1360	Of course, I am not going to interfere in the election campaign in the capital, but as others have stressed, the property tax is something that is decided in the individual municipality, and then it is also voluntary to believe what you want about it. It goes a bit across parties, when you also look at which municipalities there are that have introduced property taxes, and which municipalities there are that do not have property taxes. Some speakers have also discussed the development of property taxes over time. It's true, as it's said, that originally this was a tax that was to be used to pay for street lights and asphalt, etc., and that it was to be printed in urban areas. That was essentially the starting point. Then it is quite right that this has now evolved into a more general tax, but a general tax that the municipality itself determines if it will print, and a general tax that of course can also be used for other purposes above the municipal budget. It is true that several municipalities have property taxes, and they use them for elderly care and other good projects in the municipality. So it's important, I think, to stick to the local anchoring that property tax has. I also believe, as the rapporteur here, that it is an important part of local democracy that one has the opportunity to discuss and decide locally on the tax. Then I'm the first to admit – and it also comes out from the letter sent to the committee – that one must have some framework around the property tax, for example. as regards the question raised by the representative of Gundersen, following the ‘on the spot’ guide, as it is called in another country, i.e. after inspection, and I have said in a letter to the Committee that we will review it in the light of the Supreme Court judgment and look at the legislation for me to see that there is a need to address it. There are things here that can both feel unfair and unfair, so I'm going to promise that I'll do this as quickly as possible. Then it is important to stress, in terms of more principle, that the municipalities themselves have a large degree of local responsibility for the expenditure, even though there are many statutory tasks that the municipality is to carry out. It also enjoys, insofar as it is free on the income side, a lesser degree of freedom with regard to taxes, which are intended to finance sewers and other infrastructure, but greater freedom in the field of property taxation. I think it's important to have this at the bottom. I also register – at least as far as I can hear, interpret the debate and read the setting – that it is only the Progress Party that wants to abolish the property tax in full. So there's a different view of what kind of valuation rule you're going to have. There are some differences in this view as to whether to return or make changes to the natural resource tax, and also whether to return the corporate tax to the municipal sector. Let me use a couple of lines to comment on the other two. If a person wishes to change the natural resource tax, which is intended to compensate for the loss of property tax, it would involve a reduction in the state's proceeds and an increase in the profits of the power companies. Then, in fact, the property tax and the natural resource tax have different distribution keys in terms of the kind of municipalities it is that receive the taxes. So there won't be a direct connection between the removal of property taxes and an increase in the natural resource tax for each municipality. I think it will be difficult to change the distribution keys so that all the municipalities come out unchanged. That's essentially the reason why I think it should be the way it is today. In the case of corporation tax, from 2005 to 2008, municipalities were allocated a share of the corporation tax. The reason for this closure in 2009 was that one would provide the municipal sector with more predictable revenues. The corporation tax may vary, and it is also unevenly distributed among municipalities. The municipalities were then compensated by an increase in the proportion of their personal tax. And I want to say that for many municipalities it is clear that it is important to facilitate business activities and get good businesses to the municipality. But I think that many municipalities are primarily concerned that it will increase the population, so that we get more stable taxpayers from the personal tax. So I think that the exchange rate that was made by the increase in the proportion of taxes on persons increased was a good exchange rate for the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1380	If you have a lot of money or if you have access to new money in a municipality, I'm going to assume that it's in municipalities like most people, that they're being used up. It will always be like this – at least in my own economy. Is it not natural when you get more money and spend this money, that there will be less focus on things that allow you to reduce your consumption – simply because you have the opportunity to get this money? There will be less focus on, for example: industrial activities, less focus on savings, less focus on expenditure, less focus on mergers and less focus on cooperation. Or does the Council of State think that there is no connection between how much money you have and the willingness to go down in consumption and save in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1385	It's probably the case with municipalities like it's with individuals, that they're different. But my experience as a countyman – that is to go into the role that I am from – from municipalities in Hedmark is that they are always good at turning the tile, as we call it – so not tilsa. It implies a desire to see that there is a link between expenditure, revenue and the tasks to be performed. I have seen many municipalities that are good at adapting the costs to the income they have, but at the same time they are also careful that there is a little bit left, so they have something to go on if the times get worse. I don't think it's possible to draw a general conclusion that if you have a lot of money, they burn in your pocket. I think it's the opposite. The need to save is as important when you have a lot of money, as when you have little money. An example of this is, of course, what the large majority of the Storting does by saving in State pension funds abroad and the rule of action. But that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1390	A little comment on the company tax, because it does not harm the municipality's awareness that it actually fluctuates slightly on the income side of business as well. But that was just a little comment. I notice that the Council of State has now said several times that he will look at the tariff base and come back relatively quickly with something there. We're looking forward to that. What I hope he does is that he takes note of it with machines and equipment, which are included. The representative, Lundtigen, made a good reference to the law, but now we've got a judge. I.P. Houses on Sandøy in Møre and Romsdal have been taxed for machines and equipment that are easily movable, but a central part of the production, into the property tax base. There is therefore a significant problem there, by having been given judgments which do not follow up the intentions pointed out by the representative Lundtigen. I hope the Council of State will also take that with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1399	Both the example given by the representative Gundersen from South Odal, and the example of that company on Møre, I.P. Houses, and the Supreme Court and the judiciary in that context, we're going to go through and look at, because it's necessary to go through the basis of property taxes. I think it's important to do that, not least given that it can also help create greater predictability, both for municipalities and for businesses, but it can also build up under what we call the legitimacy of property taxes, which I think is important. We're going to do that, and we're going to make sure that it happens as soon as possible. So I just want to say that for the municipal sector, it's enough that in the choice of fluctuating incomes and predictable incomes they choose probably the last one, because the tasks that municipalities have, especially in the care of the elderly, are long-term expenses, which also require a high predictability of the long incomes over time. However, the need for municipalities to carry out active industrial policy work is also important – for many reasons. It's another and longer discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1406	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that the Council of State both sees and says that what I made in my speech on the proposal of the Right feels unfair, and that the Council of State wants to change the law as quickly as possible. For example, the Council of State may: promise that it will come at the latest in connection with the budget proposal for the autumn? Now that I have some speaking time left, I want to ask another question. We know that the allocation of discretionary means, as the Minister of Finance stresses in his letter of 4 May, is not directly tied up with the introduction of property taxes. Nevertheless, we see that in a difficult economic situation, some municipalities have in reality been required to impose property taxes in order to be given discretionary powers. Will the Minister of Finance take the initiative to ensure that there is no practice of making the allocation of discretionary means dependent on the introduction of property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1413	On the first question, I will do it as quickly as possible and present it to the Stortinget without delay, so that the Stortinget, on which the representative Syversen was involved, is given the opportunity to decide. It's important. As far as the second question is concerned, the guidelines today state that ‘employees can take account of other types of income’ and state that they should be ‘careful to allocate’. That's what's in the guidelines. I would like to say – with some experience from that position – that it is also important to be careful, that is, to use what is contained in the term ‘sex’ – to show a reasonable judgement. At least for my own part as a county councillor, in cases where municipalities have been in financial difficulties, I have seen that it is possible to achieve this through a good dialogue with the municipalities. There is no requirement for the statesmen to withhold discretionary means, but it says that they should be “cautious” and that they should take these things into account in the estimation, in order to use that expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1422	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9. [[See pages 4349 and 4350]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1440	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that 5 minutes be given to a member of the government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to a change of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1451	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation during the examination of the matter, and to conclude that, fortunately, there is quite a broad consensus in the Storting on the large lines of the tax system. This suggests that our tax system is largely sustainable in the future, without too much change. I want to start by talking a little bit about the purpose of the tax system. Indeed, it is to secure income for the community, to contribute to fair distribution and to improve the functioning of the economy by, inter alia, to make it profitable to take different considerations, such as: environmental considerations. The tax system should be designed in such a way that it does not impose undue administrative costs on taxpayers and authorities. It's a goal in itself to have a system that gives legitimacy and excitement, so that those who have to pay pay pay what they have to pay. In Norway, the goal was that this should be done best according to the principle that each of us taxes according to our ability — that is, what you pay into the community depends on how much you initially have. This contributes to a fair distribution and is therefore also a crucial element in ensuring the legitimacy of our tax system. I wanted to start with this, because you can quickly lose this main reason of vision when you start discussing the individual elements of our tax system. The work on evaluating tax reform has been widespread and ongoing in the Ministry for a long time. The Ministry has assessed the economic aspects of the protection models, non-discrimination between types of income and activities, the distribution effects of the reform, the effects on labour supply and administrative consequences. However, for several reasons, it has not been possible to assess all the effects of the reform in the same depth. Firstly, it is difficult to distinguish the effects of the reform from other factors affecting economic development. Secondly, a relatively short time has passed since the reform was implemented. This means that knowledge of the effects of the reform will increase as data are more widely accessed. Thirdly, the available data are marked by adjustments to the tax reform. In the evaluation process, the Ministry has involved a number of external contributors. Three calls for tenders have been launched to highlight the economic and administrative impact of the reform. Two professional seminars were held with researchers and tax experts from Norway and the rest of the world. The Ministry has also had close contact with the research community during work. In particular, the economic aspects of the shareholder model and the need for, and the arrangements for, the shielding deduction have been the subject of this dialogue. Two meetings have been held with a contact group with a wide range of key actors in Norwegian economic and social life. The Ministry has received a number of input from this group, in writing and orally, which has been thoroughly addressed in the evaluation. It may be wise to start by saying something about the course of the reform. The tax reform 2006 was implemented following a broad political process, based in particular on the recommendations of the NOU 2003: 9 Tax Committee. The main objective of the reform was to resolve the growing problem of the camouflage of labour income as capital income through adaptations to the sharing model. The divisional model had been so eroded over the 1990s that it was easy to make these adjustments. Many who worked in their own company did just that. And the tax savings could be very large because labour income was taxed by up to 64.7 p.m., with an employer's tax, while capital income was taxed by 28 p.m. This tax haven weakened the redistribution and was a threat to the legitimacy of the entire tax system. It was essential for the government when it took over in the autumn of 2005 that the reform should contribute to strengthening the redistribution through the tax system. In addition to the introduction of the dividend tax, therefore, the emphasis was placed on wealth taxes as a distributive policy instrument. In contrast to the Bondevik II government, which provided for the liquidation of the property tax, this government has upgraded it by strengthening the distribution profile and increasing non-discrimination. By introducing the shareholder model, the venturer model and the business model, an equal marginal tax on ownership income should be ensured, regardless of whether the income was earned in a limited liability company, a participating or an individual enterprise – i.e. a more equal tax, regardless of the type of company and the type of capital. Owner income on an estimated risk-free return on the invested capital is taxed either as personal income, as in the corporate model, or as general income when paid to the owners of the company, as in the shareholder model and the venturer model. The screening should prevent dividend taxes from weakening companies’ access to new, Norwegian equity, and facilitate investment and start-up of new industrial activities in Norway. Although, for practical reasons, the tax regimes for the different types of activity have to vary in some parts, the 2006 reform was a key objective of making the overall tax rate as similar as possible to the different types of activity. The profits of the activities are taxed on a current basis as general income by 28 p.m., regardless of the form of activity and withdrawals. Furthermore, the corporate model, the shareholder model and the participant model are based on the common principle of extra-taxing returns in addition to the risk-free return. In the shareholder model and the participant model, such income is taxed as general income on owners' hands on withdrawals, while in the enterprise model it is taxed on an ongoing basis as imputed social security income and, where applicable, peak taxes. The business income on risk-free returns on the capital of the individual enterprise will also include return on labour, and in this way the model is also a solution for taxing traders who through their activities have income from both work and capital. We can state that the reform has worked after the intention. The tax system has become more redistributive and fair. We've already removed the adaptability that was in the old system. How much you pay in taxes now depends less on how your income is earned or how your business is organised. Dividend taxes, along with wealth taxes, make the richest pay significantly more in taxes now than before, and reduced payroll taxes have resulted in people working more. At the same time, administrative costs are moderate and dividend taxes do not appear to have had a negative impact on the access to capital. There is reason to believe that the tax reform has supported the creation of value added, the strong growth of production, productivity and employment in Norway since 2004. It has been an important objective of the red-green government that the tax system should contribute to the smoothing of income differences in the population and that taxpayers should pay taxes according to their ability. This is an important reason why personal income is taxed at progressive rates, wealth and inheritance over given tax-free amounts are taxed, that the tax bases are as wide and as far as possible in line with actual income and wealth, and that high emphasis is placed on limiting tax avoidance opportunities. In order for the tax system to have the intended effect on the distribution of income, the tax bases must reflect economic realities. Equal income or wealth must be taxed equally. Complicated and unbridled rules with great opportunities for deductions, tax deferrals or circumventions will usually be both the simplest and the most profitable to exploit for the high income groups. The result is a weakening of distribution effects, a decline in resource use, a reduction in tax revenue and a less legitimate tax system. Redistribution through the tax system and distribution policies in general are not only about redistribution between persons at different levels of income, but also about redistribution between households at different stages of life. For example, several transfer schemes have: in part, such justification. The evolution of the average tax rate before and after the tax reform can illustrate how the tax reform has affected the distribution of income. In the evaluation, this is well illustrated when the population is divided into ten income tables, comparing the situation from 2000 to 2009. For the majority of the distribution of income, up to 9th decile, the direct taxes clearly appear progressive, i.e. that the average tax increases with the income. Moreover, for these groups there have been slight changes in the tax burden during the period. However, for those with the highest incomes, there has been considerable variation in the tax burden and direct taxes have gone from being regressive before the reform, i.e. that the average tax decreases with increasing income, to progressives after the reform. That the last 10 pst. The most mediated in Norway now experience a progressive tax and thus pay taxes according to the ability of everyone else, I believe is one of the main results of the reform. It is crucial for the legitimacy of our tax system that it is actually perceived as fair. This result would not have been achieved if the tax reliefs contained in the Bondevik II administration had been implemented. The main reason for having a progressive tax now also for the richest is and will be the wealth tax. This is also one of the issues that was widely discussed when the Committee consulted on the matter. So I want to spend some time on this. From the autumn of 2005, the government has been committed to strengthening the distribution profile of the tax system and to playing an important role in the distribution policy. In the follow-up to the tax reform by the government, therefore, the wealth tax has become a much stronger distribution policy supplement to the income tax than it was under the Bondevik II government. Those with large net assets are now paying a larger share of the property tax. The broader combination and the stronger increase in the bottom line have resulted in about 500,000 fewer people paying taxes on wealth than in 2005, while those paying taxes on wealth contribute more per person. At the same time, it's sharpened at the top of the deciles by removing the stock abate and the 80 pst rule. These were two schemes that protected the most prosperous in society, created a poor distribution profile, and the government has not seen it appropriate to do so anymore. And that's supported by us. It has also been the job of a number of organisations to get an exemption from what is called working capital in the taxes on wealth. This is well-problematised in the Single European Act, and there are a number of challenges here in relation to how such an exemption could be implemented. Such a derogation would pose major problems for tax authorities, provide more bureaucracy in the public and more private administration, lead to a breach of non-discrimination between activities and the type of capital, and it would have a poor distribution effect. When the majority supports the government's view of rejecting and introducing such an exemption, it is with these reasons, both because they speak strongly against each other and the sum of them shows that this is a clear breach of the intention of the reform. The introduction of a system that will promote those with sufficient resources to manage tax planning, which will provide unfair and non-discriminatory treatment between, for example: listed and unlisted shares should be taken by all those competing in business, in a more comprehensible language. It's interesting to observe that the opposition doesn't have any trouble talking hot about introducing this, probably like a breakup bar to remove the entire wealth tax. When looking at the impact of the wealth tax in the evaluation, it is time for an overall opposition to explain what they intend to replace it with. Is there anything else? Should they insert another progressive element into the tax system? Or is it okay that the top, or last, decile should have a regressive tax system in the future? This is, as the red-greens see it, a crucial element in getting good anchoring and opening up our tax system, because it feels fair that everyone is paying according to their ability. No one should be able to sneak away. If you just remove the property tax without replacing it with anything else, you're going to set up the system so that it's actually the ones that have the most from before, that can more often sneak away from taxes. Finally, I would recommend the Stortinget to support the majority position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1516	The exemption method allows a holding company to buy and sell shares by maintaining the profits of the holding company almost without taxation. This model is for animals for small investors, and a small investor will then be taxed on an ongoing basis. That's how it works today. This means that wealthy investors with a lot of capital do not pay taxes on every single profit. Does the representative of Breen think that it is in line with this fair tax system that he himself expressed was the consequence of the tax reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1523	Let me start by saying that the evaluation has shown that the reform itself has created a tax system that redistributes better than the old system. All research carried out in the context of the evaluation, by both external and internal actors, shows that the redistribution of income is improving when there is a progressive tax system for all income disparities. A better redistribution has also been achieved through the life cycle. Then it's always so that you can definitely find elements in our new tax system that can be perceived as unfair or unfair. It is also not that everything is written in stone. With regard to the concrete approach to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I am uncertain whether I can be able to answer it on a standing footing, quite simply. So it is possible that I will come back with a more specific answer in a three-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1532	I noticed that the President-in-Office put up a fight about the property tax. He'll get it, but I'll take it in my main post afterwards. What I wanted to draw attention to was something he did not mention, namely what the majority writes in a comment: ‘Taxes on work were reduced by 12 billion. crowns from 2004 to 2006. The Central Statistical Office estimates that about 20 pst. [[SSB]] on the initial relief over time comes back in the form of increased tax revenue as a result of increased labour supply.» That comment is very interesting, because this has something to do with the dynamics of the tax system. We from the Right have been beaten in many ways by the fact that this is toy money. Does the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Breen, see that the sentences of the majority who have written cast off under the simple tax jurisdiction, that there is a one-to-one exchange relationship between tax dollars and well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1544	There is little disagreement that dynamic effects of tax changes exist. There is no doubt that dynamic effects are present. When the majority have previously been critical of entering these kinds of effects into the budget for next year, it is because – as the SSB itself says and as it refers to – there are highly uncertain figures, uncertainty about size and uncertainty about when they enter, i.e. when they start to work. Then it's also that it's not just tax policy that has dynamics. Welfare policy responses also have dynamics. I think there are few who will want to, for example. child care is one of the main reasons why there are now more women in working life and that it also has a great dynamic and positive effect on both employment and tax access. First, if you want to get ahead of the results of dynamic effects in the government budgets, it's going to be very difficult to keep track of, and that's why I'm very happy that we're taking it year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1554	The Progress Party considers it important that the tax system be subject to a critical light at regular intervals. The evaluation of the 2006 tax reform is therefore welcome. The tax reform contained several elements in which the Progress Party agreed, but overall, we felt that the consequences of the reform were too vague. Therefore, the Progress Party did not join the reform. Unfortunately, we got a lot right. We still have taxes on wealth, the shareholder register has worn out many errors, and the system appears to be complicated too many. For example, the current tax system for ownership in business is too complicated. The model for the taxation of individual enterprises, subsequently named as the company model, also resulted in unfortunate tax austerity and an unfavourable tax regime. It is because this type of organisation is continually taxed and not treated on the same lines as, for example, a limited liability company, which may accumulate profits for reinvestment in the business without taxing off. The system favors, as I was in my line to the representative of Breen, major investors who can organise themselves with a holding company, where they allow all income from shares to be almost exempt from dividend tax under the exemption method. They can reinvest as much as the entire amount. The discount rate is equal to the risk-free interest rate, or after the tax value of government bonds with a maturity of three years. This might get too complicated. For the 2010 income year, it is set at 1,6 pst. This results in low screening for some, but high for others. For example, if you invest $100,000, the screen will be 100,000 times 1.6 pst. So $1,600. You've got $1 million. So it's going to be $16,000 and $10 million. is going to be 160,000 kroner. But if you can invest 100 million. kr via a holding company, it is subject to a dividend tax of 1,6 million. kr. That is to say, you do not pay a dividend tax. That means that the shielding for smaller amounts means little, while it for larger amounts means a lot. In other words, the tax reform makes it possible for large investors to live on the protected dividends, or tax exemptions ‘for those who have the most of them’, in order to take advantage of the terminology of the Workers’ Party and SV. The party originally wanted an extraction model that would balance this, which other parties have rejected. The Progress Party is also disappointed that the objective of equal taxation of labour income and capital income resulted in increased capital taxation by introducing dividend taxes rather than reducing the general tax on labour income. In our position on the tax reform issue, we referred to two models that should have been further explored as alternatives to today's model, the Consumer Model and Flat tax. The party of progress has argued on the in- and out-of-date that tax relief triggers dynamic effects, and it was gratifying to hear the representative Breen turn the trill around on previous reasoning and say that there is no one who has ever doubted that there are dynamic effects on tax. It is absolutely fantastic, but welcome to the representative of Breen – welcome to the club. In other words, tax relief leads to increased activity, which finances part of the tax reduction. This view has met with countermeasures, as I mentioned, from the parties on the left. It's okay to say afterwards that you've meant exactly the same thing all along. However, the Progress Party notes that the Ministry of Finance in the evaluation admits that the tax reliefs in the 2006 tax reform had an estimated 20 pst. self-financing rate. It was the self-financing rate that Prime Minister Stoltenberg in this Chamber called voodoo economy here for a few years. An analysis presented in the 2010 Societal Economist, where researchers from, among others, The SSB has studied the effects of the tax reform, concluding with a self-financing rate due to dynamic effects up to 35 pst. This, of course, depends on how to give these tax breaks to get the best effect of them. Perhaps the most interesting is the recent experience of the Swedish government, which was mentioned in yesterday's Evening Post. The Swedish Ministry of Finance confirms that tax cuts work and that the dynamic effects are clear. The Swedish government has given 70 billion dollars. Tax relief for the last four years, and the Swedish Ministry of Finance is pleased with the results. So the Swedish economy is growing by 5 pst. This year — twice the Norwegian growth rate. The Progress Party promotes annual tax cuts of approx. 20 B.C.E. kr., and it is actually very nice to confirm that the Swedish government is in line with the Progress Party in how tax relief should be organised, the amount of tax relief and the consequences of tax relief. The experience from Sweden clearly shows that one krone in the tax cuts is not the same as one krone in lost income for the country. Tax havens have proved to provide more jobs, which in turn lead to increased tax revenue. Together with other and good job incentives, this will generate growth and give to the Norwegian economy. Then I'm talking about growth and giving in the Norwegian economy, not by more public sector employment, but by making value in the private sector, which means that we can get even better welfare in the long term. It is slightly different from the 250 000 jobs that the representative Mikalsen boasted that the Norwegian government had created in recent years. The Progress Party will therefore encourage and challenge the Ministry of Finance to focus on the calculation of real dynamic effects of different tax change proposals, including those proposals that the Government initially does not intend to implement. The Progress Party therefore supports the following proposals together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The government is asked to incorporate dynamic effects in the short and long term from the best estimate in the context of revenue calculations for tax changes in the State budget. In doing so, the government should draw exchangers of experience from similar national and international calculations. Negative dynamic effects of increased taxes and duties shall also be recognised.’;» It would be natural to gain experience in Sweden in that process. I record that the government parties are not planning to vote for such a proposal, but it seems a little strange to me because the representative Breen thought it was obvious that these effects existed. Then it might be good to look at how to actually find them, so that you can change the tax policy and get the best effects out of it. So I sincerely hope that the Minister of Finance will reconsider that position, for example. through an independent fiscal council, which I understand is not going to be voted for, but perhaps you can find other solutions, so that you get the real effects out, and so that we can discuss this based on what the real cost of tax relief actually is, instead of just getting a rhetorical and verbal fight here in the Chamber. The tax system shall promote the efficient use of societal resources. The Progress Party is uncertain whether the relatively complex shareholder model does just that. In extending it, it is worth pointing out that taxes are unlucky in themselves, because taxes involve taking resources from a place where they yield returns, often adding funds to less profitable or unprofitable projects. So it is a political decision. The level of taxation should therefore be the lowest possible and the State should be extremely careful about seizing the income of its citizens. In the case, the government clearly states that the tax rate for one with an owner’s position in an enterprise is 48,16 pst. This means that the government realizes that the tax paid on the company's hand and the dividend tax paid on the owner's hand are as a tax for the owner. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. This is also something that the government parties previously disagreed with, because they believed that someone paid no taxes, and that the property tax was the only tax they so-called richly paid. But now you say something else when you actually read the case. However, this contrasts with statements made by a number of red-green colleagues in recent years, when it has been claimed that without the wealth tax, many so-called rich people would not pay taxes. The same representatives then jump over the fact that, through their ownership position in an enterprise, the owners pay taxes on any profits in the enterprise by 28 pst. Take the owners out dividends, pay the new 28 pst. of the remaining post-tax profits. This represents a total tax rate of 48,16 pst. The Progress Party therefore hopes that we will be able to have a somewhat more constructive tax debate in the future. Many of the hearing bodies have pointed out the negative impact of the property tax on ownership in Norwegian business. The property tax also affects companies that do not make money and sucks working capital out of Norwegian business. But the message bounces off like water on goose in the government offices. Rather, resources are being used to find new excuse models for why Norway has to maintain a strange tax on private ownership. Norwegian ownership, growth and jobs are more important than the fact that SV achieves a government award for symbols. It is to be hoped that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry will realize this and cut it through. In a country with income far beyond demand, while more and more people are being shifted to different social security benefits, it is directly irresponsible to maintain a tax that pushes more and more jobs out of the country. It is possible that all of us should become pensioners in the State pension fund, but especially forward-looking is not such a policy. I take up the proposals on which the Progress Party is associated with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1609	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to, and the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1614	It would have been tempting to use the lineword shift to point out that there are now quite a number of issues where the largest opposition party here in the hall, the Progress Party, is very alone. And even though they have an intention of cooperating on the civil side, it's enough now to mention both the rule of action, economic policy in general, the climate agreement, the pension agreement and now the tax system, where the Progress Party is far on the way in its own position, on the outside of all the others. But now leave it. I want to go back to what Tybring-Gjedde spent a lot of time, the so-called dynamic effects of the tax system. I have been among those who have criticized the Progress Party for being quite fresh in tone as to how to budget these, but I have never doubted that there are no different dynamic effects. It's raised above any doubt. The problem last fall was that we experienced something completely new, that not the professional economists, or those who after all have studied this, and are trying to figure it out, define what are the so-called effects, but the Progress Party itself. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1623	Yes, President, it is difficult to hear the question from the Micasen, but it is that the Progress Party relates to the results that exist, the investigations that exist both in the home and abroad in terms of dynamic effects. There is nothing that the representative Tybring-Gjedde or anyone else makes up, but there are calculations made by e.g. a non-financially independent body — as is the case in other countries — that could address these issues. Experience in other countries is that when you put the tax down, you create more activity, people get more in their own wallet, and the incentives to work are larger if you actually get to keep more of your own income – because there is a gap between that and, for example, the fact that you have to keep more of your own income. if someone makes an early retirement calculation or chooses a disability pension. So if you keep more of your own income, you can create more, and if you stand longer in the workplace, you create more values for the country. It's positive for everyone, and that's why I once again encourage the government parties and the Torgeir Micasen to vote for the proposal that we're presenting in the Chamber today, so we can actually figure it out instead of standing here and arguing year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1628	There are a lot of things you could take up with the representative's posts, but let me take a few points. My first question is whether the representative Tybring-Gjedde recognises the value of redistribution over the tax bill. Does the representative of Tybring-Gedde acknowledge that the public sector also creates values? And: Acknowledges the representative Tybring-Gedde that a society with small social differences between people contributes to values that are also important to business, among other things. increased trust between groups in the population, lower crime, less health problems and access to better skilled labour than would otherwise have been the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1635	The answer is yes to all three questions. The point is that you have to find the balance that makes you create the most activity in the economy, so that you create the most income that the public can use, as the representative Thorkildsen loves, for all sorts of good purposes. Then you can't tax people so much and so hard that they won't create those values, or move to another country to create these values. Therefore, this balance sheet is extremely important. And if you don't find the balance, you can't help all the people that the representative Thorkildsen would like to help. That balance sheet has not been found by the government, because it can be created more in the Norwegian economy. It is obvious that there can be more creation in the Norwegian economy. You can get more income, you can get more growth, you can create more jobs in the private sector. All this can be done, instead of believing that you can tax people so hard and give to others. Well, then Norway stops – that's not the way we can have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1640	Christian Tybring-Gjedde does a good job as a fiscal spokesman for the Progress Party. He's trying to raise a change of words about tax policy principles. We have been told here in the past that the Progress Party is against property taxes, and from the past we know that they are against property taxes. I understand that in terms of income tax, one is for companies to have 28 pst. tax. The income tax on persons remains. I understand that the Progress Party wants progressive income taxation of people. More is to be created from people. My question is, what is the first priority for the Progress Party? Is it tax relief for the low income groups, or is it tax relief for the high income groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1645	That kind of discussion takes place in our big group every year, and we always end up with tax relief on the lower incomes, because there's the most dynamic effect. But then it's important that we don't forget that the wealth tax is very burdensome for many companies, so that they can move abroad, and the jobs in which those who get tax relief, if they should work, will no longer exist. Therefore, there is a balance between removing the property tax, as we say we will do over the year – not as we said earlier, that we should do in one year, but over several years – and having tax relief on lower and medium income. There's the cloud, that you can work together here. If you remove some of the taxes on wealth, but reduce the tax on lower and middle income, you will also get the best value creation in the Norwegian sector and the most jobs, with which we are all served.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1653	As the previous speaker also said, the tax system must be subject to a critical light at regular intervals. We know that tax affects behaviour strongly and can stimulate both undesirable behaviour and misinvestment from a social point of view. The tax system shall both benefit and provide a robust basis for economic activity and growth. It's a balance. Norway has implemented tax reforms in 1992 and 2006. This evaluation will be relatively short after the 2006 reform. With respect to reporting, the result may be more to be regarded as a ‘Ministry of Finance’ declaration than an evaluation. You are very satisfied with your own results and are very careful with the critical light. This is a poor starting point for a broad evaluation. The ministry went high on the track when the evaluation was notified. It should be broad and involve external environments strongly. The fact that external environments, such as the large organisations, only attended two meetings, an initial meeting and a meeting where the three interim reports were presented. In addition, there have been two professional seminars with researchers from Norway and the rest of the world. It's going to be a good imagination to call it broad involvement. I believe, however, that we can say that Norway has a relatively well-functioning tax system. It would have been even better if Bondevik II's government had been followed up. The conflict stands to a large extent between those with focus growth and development and those with focus distribution. However, the notification is readily available to the public that Bondevik II offered to remove the property tax. The government of Stoltenberg II has not followed up, nor reversed this. When a reader who is bombastically determined that the property tax has the intended distribution power, one can really only wonder if Minister of Industry Giske has fabricated in sleep when he has created expectations of the opposite. One may find it difficult to avoid seeing the evaluation as a recognition of several of the overall steps taken by the Bondevik II government. However, the right considers that the one-sided focus of government on distribution weakens important assumptions for new jobs and future well-being. The distribution effect of taxes on wealth is widely discussed in the communication, while the value creation and employment perspective is scarcely mentioned. It is not disputed that the tax increase for too many means that dividends must be collected and the companies and jobs for capital that could have been used to strengthen the company through investment, innovation and innovation. The average estimates of the message hide that too many people have to lose their business for capital, regardless of whether you make money or not. The adverse effects of the relocation of capital and the annual discrimination of Norwegian private ownership over state and foreign ownership are also not discussed. It is suitable for wonder, all the time when one of the aims of the tax reform was to ‘make the tax system robust towards increased internationalisation’. The dramatic fact is that there is no interest in evaluating how the wealth tax affects local ownership, which is the foundation of jobs in large parts of Norway, in particular district Norway. This is a good ownership. It creates large values and jobs four times as many as the listed companies. Without this ownership, the activity dies in large parts of the country, because foreign owners or the state are rarely interested in taking over. I have not yet experienced that some red-green politicians defend this effect of the wealth tax when you meet these owners. But in the staging room the rhetoric fits much better. We also note with great satisfaction that the government confirms that there is strong dynamism related to taxes in the labour market. But why don't you think that's true in other areas too? There is a great weakness in the evaluation. However, we expect the conclusions drawn from experience in the labour market to continue to include dynamic effects in the department's tax models. There is a high risk that the level of taxation will be set too high in Norway, that growth capacity will be impaired, and that good proposals with a clear dynamic effect will be rejected before being tested, due to poor models in the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, this inertia contributes to the maintenance of a flat and rhetorical tax debate on well-being and tax cuts without roots in reality. There may be something that the red-greens look good on, but that hurts Norway's growth power and will be reviewed in the long term. For the government, in fact, the life of its simplified tax ethics takes quite effectively that one krone in tax bills means one krone in reduced welfare. The evaluation indicates that the dynamics of work and taxation are strong and refer to estimates showing that the average number of hours worked increased by 26 and 18 hours for married women and men, respectively, as a result of the changes in minimum and peak rates, and that about 23 pst. the initial tax rate returned as a result of labour supply effects over time. Had we in the Right asked about the same thing when the state budget was being treated, we had got zero in response – and we had probably also been attacked because this was voodoo dollars or toy money. The share of the corporation tax in the GDP of mainland Norway has increased sharply since the 1992 tax reform. The increase appears to continue after the 2006 reform. This has occurred despite a significant reduction in tax rates in 1992 and confirms that tax adaptation is less marked after the reform, but also that a high level of taxation is not an optimal level of taxation. However, taxes from the value-creating sector also mean that enterprises retain less capital for investment. Here it has to be a balance. In Norway, the share of corporation tax in GDP in mainland Norway is now close to 4pst. That's clear from the message. In Sweden it is below 3 pst. – that has been clarified in questions to the Ministry in the context of the revision – despite the fact that companies’ share of GDP is much higher in Sweden. The question can be asked if the tax burden becomes too high. We have heard a lot about high cost levels and weakening competitiveness from both the governor and others. Making sure that business has the ability to invest is central to preventing harm. In the international context, the Norwegian corporate tax level was favourable following the 1992 tax reform, but other countries have now reduced their tax levels so that Norway is no longer among those with the lowest tax rate. In such a perspective, I am therefore surprised that the government seems to have a very principled attitude towards neutrality in taxation and to argue against targeted measures through the tax system to stimulate investment and saving. The share savings account that could give individuals the same opportunity as in the exemption model and investment funds for self-employed persons is rejected on weak grounds. Large investors have already established a limited liability company and benefit from the exemption model, but the government is strongly opposed to giving the small investor the same opportunity. The Ministry's opposition to a share-saving account for personal shareholders becomes incomprehensible and subtly justified. The argumentation is marked by a lack of incentives for the small saver to invest in shares, and thus adapted to the argumentation. The liquidity effect of the fact that the small savers themselves can choose the time when they will take out of the account and for tax purposes is not insignificant for the individual small saver. And ‘large latent tax liabilities’ — as the report states — with which the ministry argues — are also no argument, as capital cannot be removed from the account and used until the tax liabilities are covered. Self-employed persons have unlimited risks associated with their business activities. This should mean that there was an opportunity to shield some of the profits from full taxation in order to meet future investment needs. Agricultural organisations have a special focus on this, because they do not have the same opportunity to choose other forms of organisation. The right has long argued for a risk premium in the protection rate for enterprises within the corporate model and the government’s arguments for the opposite do not seem convincing. A risk premium in the protection rate is natural all the time when the form of activity involves an unlimited risk to the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1689	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1692	One of the main objectives of the tax system — alongside financing the community — is to ensure a fair distribution. I think we agree on that. It is important for both the understanding and legitimacy of the tax system to be delivered in a capacity-based manner. The right is about to remove the property tax – you have clearly presented that in your article, Gundersen. This shall be done without being covered by another tax. After all, we're talking about 13 billion. kr. If the representative Gundersen sees it is completely unproblematic that the 10 pst. The richest is going to have lower taxes than the rest of the population, and with this, are we going to go away from the principle of being able to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1702	Providing according to your ability means providing according to your income. The property tax is detached from the income concept – I want to kill this initially – and is a tax on already taxed capital. That being said, it is clear that it is not unproblematic – that is what I said – it is a balance. But we see that the adverse effects of taxes on wealth are so great because it affects – and that shows the government in the evaluation – those with low incomes. It is targeted and, of course, meets them with the highest values, but it also hits very many with low and medium incomes, and it hits not least the local ownership of all small businesses and value-creating activities in District Norway. We believe that the adverse effect is so great that it does not outweigh the fact that one can then take some of the rich, as the Workers' Party argues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1707	The debates on taxes and the various tax proposals really show the differences between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. When we took over the proposal of the Bondevik II government, of which the Right was an important part, it was in the cards that one would have the greatest relief to the ten percent that were at the top of the distribution of income. So we took over the proposal and made changes that meant that we gave relief to everyone other than the ten percent that are at the top of the distribution of income. At the same time, we invested in a large-scale development of kindergartens, on which the representative Breen was involved. Then I have two questions: one question is whether the representative Gundersen recognises what we can call dynamic effects of the development of the welfare state, as kindergartens. The second question is whether the representative Gundersen agrees that dynamic effects cannot be calculated flat and that it is more important to provide tax relief to those with less income than to those with greater income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1714	As many others have said, everything is related to everything. I recognise the dynamic effects of most things, I think they are present in most contexts – of course to a greater or lesser extent – so kindergartens and everything is definitely connected with dynamic effects. We have put quite a lot of emphasis on raising the minimum deduction in our alternative budgets. It was also one of the grips of the tax reform in 2006. So it's obvious that it has great dynamic effects also to focus on them with lower and middle incomes. And that's what Right has done, both in the tax reform and in all state budgets after that. But we do not forget the value creation element, that we actually have to create the basis for the business life of the future. It looks like the replicator's party has forgotten pretty much.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1721	As the representative of Thorkildsen said, such debates provide an opportunity to clarify the position of the various parties. Right is essentially against property taxes, and I haven't perceived it differently than that one is principled for property taxes. In the case of income taxes, the right is for companies to be taxed by 28 p.m. and the right is also for owners to receive an additional dividend tax when a profit is deducted from the holding. Then we're left with the income tax for people. There's a lot of talk here about creating more, getting dynamic effects. I would like to have a clarification from the fiscal spokesman, Mr Gundersen, on what has first priority: is it tax relief for the low incomes of persons, or is it for the high incomes, if one has to choose – what any government operator has to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1726	This really knows the replicator the answer to itself. We've given that in all our state budgets. We're both prioritizing. We allocate our tax relief to the types of taxes that we consider to be extra harmful in relation to growth and development. So we're going to take a little bit of property taxes, we're going to take a little bit of minimum deductions, and we're going to do a little bit more to raise the top estimate. So I'm going to reject that you have to choose here. We're trying to distribute it so that the tax relief we give will contribute to the best possible growth for Norway. And I would like to remind you that a small increase in growth could easily lead to the removal of property taxes. When it comes to being for the dividend tax, it was on the assumption that the property tax was going to go away. And that assumption is very clear in the evaluation that the government of Stoltenberg II has not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1735	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1738	On December 7, last year, the class struggle wrote the following: ‘After decades of growing income differences in Norway, the trend was broken in 2006. Since then, there has been no increase in income differences in the country.» 2006 was the first financial year of the red-green government. With us, we were «a dramatic change compared to the years of dividends in the period 2002–2005», to quote Jon Epland from the Statistical Central Bureau. Tax on dividends on shares was the main cause of the trend break, a tax that was first proposed by Stoltenberg I, then removed by Bondevik II, to be reintroduced by us, on the proposal of the then Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, who, of course, made sure to notify about the change in good time. Foss simultaneously halved the property tax. However, this was not the case, and the reason is that we can find in the Bondevik II government's own analysis. Indeed, they believed that the tax reform they were responsible for would bring the greatest relief to the ten psts. which was at the top of the distribution of income. We couldn't accept this. With Kristin Halvorsen we got a system where instead we gave all other income groups than the top 10 pst. less tax to pay. We've made grips both at the top and at the bottom that have made the wealth tax fairer. The ones with over 100 million. NOK in wealth has received SEK 3.6 million. kr extra in taxes, but at the same time we have halved the number that pays taxes on wealth, and given significant relief to others. Half a million people no longer pay taxes on wealth in Norway as a result of our policies. The result is that we finally got a tax system that is progressive, even for the top 10 pst. in the social pyramid. Before us it was the other way around: the rich paid a smaller share of their wealth in taxes than the people most did. The right-hand side wants to make most of the country's billionaires zero-tax providers. We don't want to. We are committed to ensuring the financing of the community. With the property tax, we get an amount that represents about the amount of child benefit. The taxes on wealth contribute to a fairer distribution and a tax system based on the principle of non-performance. In addition, we will have a more efficient use of resources. ‘The number of SSBs indicates that the red-greens have succeeded better in slowing the growth of differences than many have believed’, wrote Class Battle on 7 December last year. The figures also showed that income differences increased significantly during the right-hand-dominated Bondevik II government. ‘In recent years, the distribution of income in Norway has changed slightly. Going back to the period 2001–2005, however, there was a significant increase in the inequality over time, with the wealthiest tenth of the population having an increasing share of total income’ concluded the SSB researchers Epland and Dark in an article in the Societal Mirror last autumn. I'm willing to bet a lot that the differences between poor and rich in our country will speed up again if we get a blue-blue majority after the next election. Then we'll also see that society is changing. Larger class divisions lead to a reduction in the country of welfare, which in turn leads to larger class divisions. Larger class divisions give rise to increased distrust between population groups, more health problems and increased crime. We have a lot of research on this. If we distribute large sums in tax relief, we get less back to the welfare state. The welfare state is our main tool for balancing between different social layers, and most importantly it is for those at the bottom. It is howled and shouted that the value creation in private is hit hard by the red-green regime. I'm going to argue that it's the opposite. The numbers show that Norway is going to laugh. We have lower unemployment than anyone else, we have a relatively high educated population, and women participate in the labour market in a way that puts us and Nordic countries in a special position. We have low crime, good cooperation in the labour market, a relatively effective bureaucracy, a public sector that is actually good at innovation, it turns out, and at the same time a medium-high level of taxation. We are highly ranked on most unions across countries that provide good conditions for business, while at the same time being able to live in the world's best country. SV is concerned that Norway should become even better for private business without tearing down what is the basis of the strong community. We will never compete to have the lowest taxes, but we would like to compete to make the public sector the most suitable partner for business – both in cities and in districts. We are at any time involved in a competition to provide enough skilled workers, enough apprenticeships and good conditions for the development of skills throughout the life cycle. Access to highly skilled labour is much, much more important than abolishing property taxes. As I said, we were within this with dynamic effects. The dynamic effects of the welfare state are also well documented, for example: Kalle Moene, professor of economics at the University of Oslo, believes that the kindergarten reform has probably been maritime funding due to women's involvement in the labour market. I don't think it's right for us to think that even the rich among us have to contribute according to our ability. Rather, let's help make Norway even better for business, without tearing away the foundation that Norway should be a good country to live in, whether you come from Holmenkollocken, Stokke or Töen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1775	As far as I have discovered – and read for a while back – the differences have increased under the red-green government. But I'm going to let that lie now, so it doesn't need the representative Thorkildsen to comment. I thought I would challenge Thorkildsen for something that she might not be used to being challenged. Let's say that there are dynamic effects of tax relief. It's in the evaluation, and it's a government paper, so I'm counting on Thorkildsen to support this. And then I thought I'd ask the representative Thorkildsen if she got 25 billion. She had to give in tax relief – not tax relief – how would she prioritise? Like the Progress Party, she would have taken the lower and middle incomes, and in that case, why would she have done that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1782	I would have done that, simply because it is those who respond most positively to that kind of change, in terms of increasing their job offer, in order to use an economic language. In other words, they choose to work more. Therefore, SV has always been for us to give tax relief to those who earn little, and we have always been against giving tax relief to those who earn much. For an extra crown to people like Tybring-Gjedde and me sail – right now we can't be compared, neither in terms of wealth nor income, but let it go – is not as much worth as for those who really have little, and who would then work more to get more money in their wallet. To what Tybring-Gjedde had to say, the differences have increased: an OECD study just showed that. Between 1986 and 2008, differences have increased, but from 2006 differences have been downwards. But it has not compensated for the large increase that has occurred from 1986 to today and that we want to bring down further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1789	The representative None Marte Thorkildsen said exactly: SV is anti-taxable to those who earn much, and too tax-free to those who earn little. How, then, did SV as a government party, and with the Minister of Finance, accept large tax reliefs to them with the very highest wage income, those who serve at Council level, while at the same time reducing the tax relief to those who earned the least?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1797	The representative Jan Tore Sanner is fully aware of the cause. The reason is that the government – Soria Moria I – made a statement that was based on the agreement that was around the tax reform. But what we first addressed was, among other things. to prevent such great relief as had been provided by the changes in top taxes. In addition to that, we were given the most important thing to do, namely to prevent the removal, or at first halves, of the property tax. It was the most important thing. But what we were behind was that we gave tax relief to people who have lower and middle incomes. The rest is part of the policy, and that's what it is: you don't get through all of your primary positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1802	Firstly, there was no settlement on the tax reform. Secondly, the representative did not answer the question I asked, namely, why did the tax relief to them be cut with the low and normal wage incomes? What SV did as a government party, with Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Finance, was accept large personal tax reductions for them with the very highest wage incomes, while cutting them in the tax reliefs with the lowest incomes. My question is: why did SV cut the tax relief for them with the lowest income, by increasing the minimum deduction less than the bourgeois government had proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1809	What characterizes our reign is actually that we have increased the minimum deductions, the bottom deductions. This is the case in the taxes on wealth, and so is the case elsewhere. The representative Sanner knows very well why they did the grips they agreed on when it comes to top taxes. Of course, that was the result of getting the tax on capital and income to be about the same. That's a consideration that had many good reasons. We meant not to spend so much on tax relief at the top, but we had sympathy with the reason for doing so. We have been able to reverse some of this, and since then we have concentrated on both giving out more in terms of bottom deductions and ensuring that we take more from those who have the highest incomes and the greatest wealth, especially in terms of property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1814	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1817	It is personal taxation and business taxation that we are going to discuss now. The centre party is quite clear that there is a tax based on the ability of persons and, in the case of business taxation, it is a combination of paying taxes to the community, while the business tax system is part of and development of a robust and socially beneficial business. So we're going to have a progressive income tax for people, combined with a significant amount of free money in the property tax. That's what the government is following up, and we're very pleased with that. The vast majority of persons are employees, but there are also some 190 000 persons who are maritime workers. The seafaring businessman is a group all in this room talking well about, everyone wants it strongly, in writing and speaking, and everyone wants more seafaring businessman. The centre party is very pleased with this and feels a special responsibility to follow up the situation of the marine operators. Sick business operators carry on business with unlimited financial responsibility. It's a principle that's very important, and that's too little heeded. When a business is engaged with unlimited financial responsibility — well, then one rate. When we have a business that concerns both industry and person, which comes under both business taxation and personal taxation, and where revenue varies, many times a lot over the year, it is important to take into account the special circumstances of seafarers. Therefore, it is essential that we think carefully through the framework conditions imposed on seafarers. A number of seafaring entrepreneurs struggle with the weakening of social rights. In particular, high-indebted maritime operators are concerned. The interest cost in the business shall be deducted from the business model’s calculation of personal income and, therefore, in capital-intensive enterprises with low equity, one may receive very low or no imputed personal income. Without personal income, the trader loses the right to sickness benefits, maternity benefits and the possibility to earn benefits from social security or individual schemes. This is a weakness in the business model. Therefore, it is appropriate to initiate the amendment of point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 12-11 of the Tax Act to allow the following items to be added instead of to be added as it stands today. This will give taxpayers an freedom of choice. There is also a challenge in terms of depreciation rates for operating buildings, especially in agriculture, because current depreciation rates are such that by 4 pst. depreciation of balance is the impairment, wear and tear and reduced income from the building, faster in reality than in the tax accounts. Therefore, the depreciation rate should be increased from 4 to 8 pst, so that there is a correlation between impairment and depreciation rate. So it's going to be about 90 pst. depreciation could occur over a 30-year period, and we are more in line with what is happening in Sweden and Denmark. It is also true that, in the case of the tax burden on income reinvested in industry, there are unfair conditions for maritime traders. The current taxation of individual enterprises makes it more difficult to finance future investments with equity compared to limited liability companies. An unfortunate consequence of the tax reform is the taxation of realisable gains as personal income. This means that a significantly smaller proportion of real estate income can be reinvested in the enterprise, and in naturally comparable countries, gross taxation of inflation gains is not natural. The impact of this transformation is too little discussed in the implementation of the tax reform, and we hope that it is something that you can look at, among other things. because on sale of a house the gain is tax-free if you have lived there over a certain period. Similarly, there is a recurring point relating to expropriation taxation, where it is essential to discuss whether it should be treated in the same way as the conditional exemption rules for the realisation of fixed land. We also have the permanent debate on the exemption of property taxes from working capital. It is operational means that do not provide job-free income and should therefore be exempt from property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1844	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1847	I first realized that the representative Lundtegen said he was quite satisfied with the grips and developments that were on property taxes, but then he finally came to the point of working capital. In fact, it is more than doubled under this government, which has in many ways made the property tax a corporate capital tax. 10 pst. of this tax comes from agriculture. So I was actually going to ask the representative Lundtägen if he was really so satisfied with the grips that had been taken, and whether he is satisfied that the wealth tax has in many ways become a tax on the capital of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1852	It's good that I can solve that misunderstanding. What I said about the property tax was that it is good that we have managed to increase the amount of the property tax. It is a great, great improvement, and it is to those degrees according to the intention of the property tax, that every citizen should establish a certain wealth in order to thus have a safer situation in the future. When we then address the issue of property taxes on working capital, it is a matter that is being discussed continuously, and there are different assessments of what is right to do on that point. The position of the centre party is that it is unreasonable to impose a property tax on assets that do not provide a job-free income. Because that's the whole point of property taxes, namely extra taxation of labour-free income. As a result, it is also right to tax shares and debt securities because they can only generate non-workable income.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1861	Increases in the amount of the allowances have been mentioned many times. However, it came about the introduction of a new housing tax system, and the amounts of the allowances were not restated at first opportunity. So the opposition's fear that this is just a long-term plan to increase the tax there, I think it's next to you. But then I also noticed that the representative Lundtägen had a review of, among other things, his contribution. the realization of values for self-employed persons, which are taxed as income from persons. The overall opposition has a note about this particular problem in the setting. I wonder why not a government party represented by Lundtigen also went into that comment, because that was precisely the concern we wanted to point out that there are unfairnesses in how to tax, among other things. forest by realization.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1868	In terms of the taxes on wealth, and in terms of housing taxes, we are faced with some demanding fundamental balances. What is the Norwegian housing tradition is that owning one's own, much-needed housing is to be tax-subsidised. It's rocking in the Center Party. On the other hand, it is not supported in the Centre Party that those investing in housing — using the dwelling as an investment property — are to be tax-subsidised. On the contrary, they should be taxed in the same way as others who invest in other investment objects. In terms of realization and reinvestment, I said in my post that there is a question that the government should look at, among other things. the issue of taxation of expropriation gains, which in our opinion should be treated in the same way as taxation of property gains.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1875	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1879	The left is fully committed to the 2006 tax reform. In many ways, the tax reform was almost the overall tax policy of the Left: a simpler and flat tax system with equal maximum taxation on labour and capital. The very unfair sharing model that Left had fought against for over ten years was finally removed. However, there are some aspects of tax reform that have either not been followed up or have proved not to be so appropriate. Of course, I think that an important premise for the whole of our reform was that the wealth tax should be phased out, and I think of the tax rules for individual enterprises. The last is a group that unfortunately and a little incidentally has come out of the big reforms on taxes and pensions, and which I hope we have settled on the tax side today. A lot has already been said about the taxes on wealth. After all, the left is not the most intense advocate of the liquidation of property taxes on so-called working capital. We share the objections that have been raised that it is difficult to define which capital is working and fears that there will be individuals and small limited liability companies that come out of such a scheme the worst. Rather, the left will apply the same reduction to a general increase in the asset tax entry point and the reintroduction of the share tax. It will hit the many people who are unfairly affected by the wealth tax today. Then I think of pensioners, those with low or medium income, small businesses with significant operating resources and those who really want to invest in Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs in general — and small businesses in particular. I agree with the criticism that several have raised that the evaluation of the tax reform we have been presented, and its follow-up by the government, is at best deficient and subjective. It shows the need for an independent fiscal council, which we have just discussed earlier today. It must be rather odd for Minister of Industry Trond Giske, who repeatedly repeats that the wealth tax should be abolished, to witness the government's so-called assessment of the wealth tax. There is no mention here of the disadvantages that this strange tax has in terms of value creation and jobs. The taxes on wealth means that many people needlessly take out large dividends and drain businesses and jobs for capital, which should and could have been spent on investment, product development and increased value creation. Nor does the fact that the property tax means a heavy discrimination against Norwegian private ownership in relation to foreign or state ownership seem to worry the government and government parties a little – except for Trond Giske, then. Quite exactly a year ago, we had a discussion in this room about the circumstances of individual enterprises based on a left-wing proposal on a comprehensive review and a right-hand sales of an investment fund scheme. It was a reasonably private experience. As always, the Minister of Finance was round the edges and pointed to the position we are discussing today. He also said, ‘The fact that we are now also going to evaluate the tax reform of 2006 is a response to the fact that things have changed since 2006 and that one has to look at this with access to capital, among other things. to individual undertakings in the light of that fact. [[...]] [[...]] I will not foreshadow the evaluation, but I will promise that I will also take those views with me» – which the opposition here expresses. It was more confusing what the government parties thought: the representative Lars Egeland of SV was generally opposed to individual enterprises and even said that SV will ‘combat a development in which people who have been employed go to exemption as individual enterprises’. The representative Lundtägen of the Senterpartiet promised that the Senterpartiet would fight hard for a fund scheme in connection with the forthcoming evaluation. Among other things, he said: that the taxation of business activities should be organised in such a way that it becomes more favourable for individual enterprises than for limited liability companies, at least not vice versa. That is exactly the opposite of what Mr Lundtigen and the Central Party are doing well today. And the representative Eldegard of the Workers' Party put it all on record that it was only for the individual companies to convert to AS if it was so important to be able to raise capital. The latter recalls the very lack of understanding and understanding of the daily lives of individual enterprises, and the fact that many – not least in agriculture – do not have the ability to convert to AS. The first two, the Centre Party and the SV, show the overall confusion that prevails internally in the government about policies and instruments – and not least attitudes – towards the smallest enterprises. I had really hoped, on the basis of the signals that came from the Minister of Finance, and not least from the representative Lundtegen one year ago, that we could today restore an injustice to the individual companies, but no. The tax reform of 2006 is very good and sensible. We could make it even better today. There's an opportunity that the government parties unfortunately let go of. It affects Norwegian businesses in general, and individual enterprises in particular. Hopefully, it's only a matter of time before this can change permanently. The voters can do something about it in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1906	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1909	Both in the position and in the post, the representative Raja calls for a change in the property tax – even if the evaluation shows that last year’s improvements in the property tax are crucial to the good distribution profile of the tax system. The Left Party has historically been associated with the Workers' Party in the development of well-being and cohesion. Tax policy is an important part of cohesion policy. The evaluation now shows that we have managed to get a tax system that ensures that everyone contributes according to ability, including the richest in the country. Can the representative Raja agree that this is good and that this has achieved an important objective of cohesion policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1914	The left has a proud and important tradition of developing the welfare state. We have a good story to point to there, and we are also in favour of a balancing policy. With regard to the elimination of taxes on wealth, it is important to mention that the whole idea of the Bondevik II government in the context of the introduction of a new tax model in 2006 was that the property tax should be abolished. This government has chosen to continue and maintain the property tax. This is where Norwegian business comes out worse of the tax reform. The economy accepted dividends tax at that time in return for the long-term liquidation of the property tax. It hasn't been like that. I believe that today's taxes on wealth actually help prevent business. In the same way, it also helps to reduce the revenue of the public and thus the possibilities that we can do the good welfare measures that I am sure the representative Kristoffersen wants to do, and that at least the Left in particular wants to do on the welfare side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1921	As I said before, it was in the Bondevik II regime, of which the Left was part, that tax relief should be given primarily to the ten percent that are at the top of the community pyramid. Then we took over, and made changes that meant that we gave tax relief to everyone other than the ten percent who was at the top of the community pyramid. On the other hand, by removing the property tax, which has also been mentioned here by the Left, the vast majority of billionaires in Norway would end up as zero-taxors. Does the representative Raja see that you can get an explanation problem for most people when we invite you to a platter where you're going to deliver by ability, and those who can really deliver, don't you want to split up? Then I also wonder what taxes the representative Raja intends to raise in order to compensate for the loss of income, which amounts to approx. Between 13 and 14 B.C.E. kr when the taxes on wealth are to be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1930	This day, a party colleague from the representative of Thorkildsen said that I, as a person, did not have any particular competence in the field we were talking about at the time. But now that I have only got the time anyway, I will take the opportunity to answer, according to the small thing I can. We in the Left are not for zero taxpayers, and we would like to discuss how we can help abolish the property tax while avoiding zero taxpayers. This is, in fact, the same thing that Minister Giske stands for. In terms of taxes on wealth, it's actually a myth, representative Thorkildsen, if I'm allowed to point it out, that it's just the rich people who pay taxes on wealth. 20 pst. Of those who pay taxes on wealth in 2011, in fact, pensioners and insured persons, and 24 pst. of those who pay taxes on wealth, they earn less than 500000 kroner. So saying that this is for the rich, I mean to subdue a truth. This is actually hitting the weak very hard, and therefore we in the Left will be doing away with the injustice of the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1937	Historically, Left has represented taxes according to ability. However, something fundamental has happened over the past few years, for example. what is now being said is that a person is now in principle in favour of taxes on wealth. One admits that property taxes are going to happen instead, and one acknowledges that the entire financial capital is free of taxes on accumulated values. It's a strong right triangle in a former radical party. However, I am pleased that the Left has a focus on the marine operators. When such taxes on wealth have not been removed, it is strange that one then does not want to go in and restore the principles of property tax, so that operating resources, which are currently taxed on wealth, are not taxed on wealth because they do not provide labourless income. Can the representative explain why the party will remove the entire property tax, introduce exemptions from financial capital, and not restore... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1944	I thank Lundtigen for pointing out that the Left has a proud tradition of establishing good welfare arrangements. We are, of course, for people to pay taxes – that should really just be missing. Unlike the government, represented by the representative Lundtigen, we want a green tax shift, where the property tax is included. We want more tax on consumption and environmentally hostile behaviour and less tax on saving and ownership and investment in Norwegian businesses and jobs. Then I want to say that we don't necessarily have to choose between tax credits for the rich and the low pay. I refer to the alternative budget of the Left, where we give priority to both those with low income and reduced taxes on wealth. Our tax regime is actually much closer to the central party's primary position than the government's own, and that should really be the position of the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1953	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1956	First, some general considerations about tax systems as such: there may be many purposes of a tax system, but there are at least three important purposes that I think it is worth highlighting. One is that one should provide the community with income. It shall be carried out in the most efficient and fair manner possible, and it shall also be such that the tax system shall ensure that profitability before and after tax is as high as possible. These were principles underlying the 1992 tax reform, which I am well aware of. Unfortunately, I came back a little too late in relation to the active work on the tax reform in 2004–2006, but what I think is very positive is that one has continued many of the basic principles of the tax reform in 1992. Such a basic principle is the need to have the most simple tax system possible, to have a tax system with a broad basis and with the lowest possible rates. I think that in itself is a characteristic of the Norwegian tax system that makes the Norwegian tax system stand out well in international contexts – we have a tax system that is robust and that is over time, and that meets many important objectives elsewhere in economic policy. I have noticed in a very good note on page 17 of the setting. That's where the majority of the committee – all except the members of the Progress Party say: ‘The majority record that the tax reform in 2006 appears to have been successful.’ — I agree. – ‘The adaptation possibilities of the old system have been largely removed. The amount of tax paid now depends much less on how labour income is earned or the business organised.» This is a very good quote, which in a way underlines some of the quality of the Norwegian tax system, that there is relatively broad agreement on the basic features of the tax system. But then we disagree on rates and some other things. I would also point out that I believe the perfect tax system that is fair to everyone, and that everyone is 100 pst. satisfied with, not invented. It's not going to be invented either, because taxpayers are different, and businesses are different. I really think we should be proud together that we have a world-class tax system. I think it's worth stressing today. One of the things that was done in the context of the tax reform was to balance the highest tax rates by reducing the tax on wages and introducing dividend taxes. It was widely agreed that this solution would close the possibility of transforming highly taxed labour income into low-taxed dividends by exploiting the weaknesses in the divisional model, which were otherwise very commendable when it arrived in 1992, but which became a little worse afterwards. I believe that the reform has made it possible for important decisions on investment, financing and business to be taken on the basis of what is reasonable business practice, rather than on the basis of what is the lowest tax. In addition to the fact that the reform contributes to solving a major adjustment problem, the analyses also show that the benefits of wage taxation have contributed to increased labour supply. Yeah, there's some dynamics in it, I guess no one has said it's not. Then there are some issues that I think we should put behind us. One of these is the discussion that has been going on for very many years about exemptions from so-called working capital. For example, bank deposits, which are rarely referred to as working people, will be channelled into productive activity through capital markets. So an exemption from working capital will significantly weaken the importance of the distribution policy of the property tax. An exemption from all commercial assets, including equity, would give a proceeds of around 6 billion. kr in 2011. It's a fact that about 30 pst. The relief would have gone to a small minority of more than three million. gross income kr. The distribution effect of the tax system is important for most people to perceive that the tax system is fair. It helps to create greater legitimacy in the tax system, but I would also argue that it contributes to better productivity in the economy than it would otherwise have been. One theme to which you — of course — are constantly coming back is that Norwegian enterprises are being defused by the tax system. As far as I've been able to observe, it's not the general message we get back from Norwegian business and international studies. On the contrary, Norway is generally considered to be a good country to invest in, operate in, and the tax system is also highly rated. I also think it is worth pointing out that, in the period that has gone from 2006 to today, we have had strong growth in employment. We have had a good growth in the Norwegian economy – we have had a less downturn in the financial crisis than many other countries. It should also mean that we both have a solid business life and have a tax system that contributes to employment and work, and we should be very happy about that. Then there are simple problems that of course can be solved. This means, for example: not that taxes on wealth cannot improve and that changes in taxes on wealth can ensure an even better balance between the allocation and business considerations. There has also been a background to the changes proposed and adopted by the government in the wealth tax, with a sharp increase in the base tax, which has caused hundreds of thousands either to receive less taxes on wealth or to have completely eliminated the wealth tax. Although the evaluation shows that we have – and confirm that we have – a well-functioning tax system, there is a need for adjustments and improvements. We will continue to work on this, including: remove the rule on correction income, amend the 3 p.m. rule in the exemption method so that only dividends are included, and we will continue to work on a proposal for a rule that cuts off losses on claims between related companies. It is also important that we work on such questions. These are things that I will come back to in the annual budget commitments. So finally a little bit more about dynamic effects. This is, of course, a question which has been dealt with earlier today, and one is obviously concerned about trying to do so in budgetary terms. But it has to be done in a proper way, because there is no 1:1 ratio. So-called dynamic effects are things that can occur over time. Even with what has been done in Sweden with the so-called job deduction, it is uncertain calculations. Among other things, a sample, which we have been through earlier today, is somewhat more skeptical about the impact than may seem through interviews with people from the Swedish Ministry of Finance, to which it was referred in the evening post a few days ago. How taxes and taxes affect people’s decisions to work, invest and establish activities are important considerations of government tax policy. But there's uncertainty about the size and how fast they're being applied. Therefore, it is my view that a rather conservative approach should be to budget the impact of so-called dynamic tax effects, rather than to go too far. Because it's better to have something to wear, because the estimates are in any case uncertain. So finally, the good results of the evaluation of tax reform show that a stable and robust tax system based on some thoughtful and good principles is important in order to have a good framework for business and to ensure that distribution policy considerations are taken into account. The oil tax system, which has remained unchanged since 1992, and which contributes to long-term and predictable framework conditions for an important part of Norwegian business life, is a good example of this. There is a basis for optimism in order to maintain the system characteristics of a tax system that has consistently produced good results for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1993	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e1997	I'll come back to dynamic effects again. Now we have got representatives from the Workers' Party in the Chamber to admit that there are dynamic effects, and I am very pleased about that. They say they've meant it all the time, and that's okay, that's okay. But then it's pretty central that one finds out where these dynamic effects are greatest. When the Council of State in its statement says that it has to do it properly, I assume that perhaps the most appropriate way to do it is through the Ministry of Finance. That is why we are today promoting a proposal that the Ministry of Finance actually does. But then the representative Breen and the representative Micaelsen don't end up doing that, and then I'm a little surprised at what the council actually thinks. But, for me, and for us, and for those who vote in favour of this proposal, whether it is on the conservative side. Let's do 5 pst. up to 20 pst., and closer to 5 pst. – that's okay with me. We want to get a confirmation through experience that the department can do through the apparatus they have, and they can take experience from Sweden and say that it takes several years for the proper effects to be seen. Will the Council of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2004	There are dynamic effects, it also means the Workers' Party, but they come over time. The dynamic effects are that they can influence what we call the supply of employment, that people make their labour available and make it more employed. However, having an impact on the provision of work can happen in a number of ways — through education, kindergartens, etc. The main point is that tax relief is not self-financing. It's not heads for heads. I also pointed out what they are now saying in Sweden, that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the way this job deduction works, and this Swedish Economic Council is actually somewhat more uncertain about it than the Swedish Ministry of Finance. If there is a desire for a more fundamental discussion about dynamic tax effects, I can contribute to it, but I'm not going to make any great hopes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2013	I think the Council of State said something like that there were few signs that business was debilitated because of the taxes on wealth. Then he must have been in other forums than what I've been, because there are few things that are so often on the agenda in business relations as the wealth tax. Bernander from the NHO said during the consultation that the wealth tax is now a matter for business when one consults the mass of members. I agree in many ways with many of the considerations that the Council of State has taken on working capital. It also shows the evaluation. Much of the tax on them will be eliminated with the highest income, but the wealth tax will remain there for them with intermediate incomes and low incomes, pensioners and others. Does not the Council of State see that the wealth tax is a pure discrimination against Norwegian private ownership and thus weakens the basis for new value creation around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2020	What I said in my post was that it is not the general feedback from the Norwegian business community and international studies that the tax and tax system weakens the industrial policy landscape in Norway. That's basically what I said, and I'm sure of that. It is only to look at the results of this economy, with low unemployment, high professional participation and a huge increase in the number of persons employed — around 250,000 from 2005 — where the majority of jobs are created in private business. I think it's important to turn off a little bit for the public, but at the same time I realize that the property tax has some sides that it's necessary to look at. There is also some reason why this government has removed or reduced the property tax for 900,000. The share that pays taxes on wealth is reduced from 34 pst. until 17 pst. of the total number of taxpayers during the period from 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2027	It is good that we have some small points – relatively small in general – to fight a little bit about, and the wealth tax is one of them. The question is, since the Minister of Finance has given such emphasis to the distribution effects of taxes on wealth, whether it is more important than a system that promotes capital for Norwegian enterprises and thus promotes Norwegian jobs and growth in them. I guess that's a little bit of a point of view. The Minister of Economic Affairs is quite clear that he believes that today’s taxes on wealth are a hindrance to Norwegian business. At least he should have some real-life orientation towards the environments he is in. My question is, Is he on a berry trip, or has he forgotten the red-green version of the distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2034	The President has great doubts as to whether the word «carriage» is a parliamentary expression, but we hear the response of the Council of State Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2037	In many contexts ‘carriage’ is a positively charged concept, in the sense that helping to self-save by picking berries in the shade is not so stupid. But back to tax. What is important is that this government has no plans to abolish the property tax. That's point one. The reason for this is that taxes on wealth have an important distribution policy role that increases the legitimacy of the tax system. On the other hand, this government has both improved and will continue to work to improve the wealth tax system. An improvement is made, among others: by increasing the bottomline, which not only benefits people, but also, of course, benefits companies with small assets, and in this way has been freed from taxes on wealth. There are other things in the tax reform that are also important in that context. The screening is an important contribution to contributing capital to Norwegian business. We will continue to work on improving taxes on wealth, but the distribution effect of taxes on wealth is so important that we intend to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2046	The Minister of Finance has stated several times that it would ideally be an advantage if one could have the same tax credit for individual companies as one has for companies. It is not easy to understand what has disturbed this ideal image in the evaluation we are discussing today. Rather, it should be such that the cyclical situation ensures that it is actually more topical today than when the tax reform was introduced in 2006. Can the Minister of Finance explain to me the political rationale, not the technocratic one, for why the Central Party has failed enough in business policy and why it is good policy to discriminate against individual enterprises versus other types of business, such as business. limited-liability companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2051	My view and government's view is that there is no systematic – to use the word – discrimination against one form of enterprise rather than the other, but there may be different tax rules regarding the relationship between paying taxes here and now and getting deferred taxes over time. But if you look at the tax burden over time, I think it's quite even, and there's no systematic difference between corporations and individuals in that regard. In other words, there is no tax credit in being organised as a corporation, but at the same time it would be that if a similar system was introduced for individual enterprises, we believe that it is. will complicate the tax system, and that's one of the main reasons why we have it as we have today. So there is no systematic discrimination over time, even if one type of company has deferred tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2056	The Minister of Finance stressed that the development of the wealth tax system should help balance the balance between the distribution and business considerations. So far, this balancing has meant that the bottom deduction has been increased to NOK 700000 – that is good for the distribution. At the same time, the tax on working capital has been doubled – it is not good for business. In other words, the burden of property taxes has been shifted from – I was saying – people mostly and over to taxes on working capital. So the Minister of Finance says that the government will continue to develop the wealth tax system. So my question is, where do you want to change this balance point? Will you go even further in the direction of distribution, where you further increase the bottom line and increase the tax on business? Or will you eventually begin to reduce the tax on working capital, the one that affects business?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2063	When it comes to the question of dividing the wealth tax into two parts — a common property tax and a wealth tax on working capital — the government has said in the evaluation that there is no current policy. What you're going to do is look at the possibility of going further after the tracks you've made now, and that's going to happen, for example. involve increased deductions from the base. But the concrete changes or improvements that you want to make in the taxes on wealth, these are things that you have to make in relation to the annual budget commitments. That's what it is, and that's what it has to be in that context. However, having a wealth tax that takes account of important distribution policy considerations, as it is now seen through the evaluation, is important for this government, because it helps people to feel a greater sense of integration into the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2069	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2072	This debate on a – what to say – quite a big case, which should have a lot of attention and which has received attention today, shows that overall, there is quite a broad consensus about what the Stortinge decided in 2006, back to 1992, and that the results show that what the Storinge did was good. The results clearly show that the revenue of the community — the single currency — has increased sharply. At the same time, we have got a broader tax base, relatively low rates, the distribution has increased; at all, as I see it, there is quite a broad consensus that this has been good. The debate as it has become today is often based on two – what we are going to say – less parts of the tax system: one is what I would call a slightly special theme that is largely about tax relief or other expenditure on the government budget is self-financing, that is, to what extent you have it – and that is, of course, the wealth tax. I'm just going to take a few brief considerations around the last two that have been most prominent in the debate. Firstly, the wealth tax: is it that you have a right-hand coverage to say: during a period we now have behind us, with a lot of work, many new jobs, Europe's lowest unemployment rate, the third highest level of employment in Europe – at a time when we have had taxes on wealth – it can be defended to use as strong words as some people do, to call it anti-food, etc.? I do not belong to those who believe that the wealth tax, like many other taxes, is perfect. Of course, the property tax also has its shadow pages, but I think it is unreasonable when both the results suggest it and the Norwegian economy, if you can just go and look at it and point out that it is entirely possible to do good business with or without a property tax. We don't get beyond the fundamental question that we don't get an answer to. I am of those who defend, among others. the Community revenue, which amounts to between 13 and 14 billion. kr, although I get to shut up here and there for that. I'm saying it's now once, and we're using it for very good purposes. But we have the big opposition parties in this room that say they want to remove it, and they don't tell us how they're going to cover it, which doesn't tell us how they're going to meet the debate that we can get zero-taxors back in Norway. I'm just reminding you that 7 billion. of the 14 billion So we get the property tax paid by the 2.5 pst. richest in Norway. When the representative Sanner, as I understand the word after me, repeatedly points out that the tax on so-called working capital has doubled, the problem is only that part of what the representative compares with, were, of course, objects that had either a discount, their own rules, which made it obvious that they had lower tax rates than many others – a tax rebate, tax restrictions, rules that ordinary people are not in the vicinity of dreaming of being given as special treatment. That's what we've done. Of course, it has some effects, but we have been able to use that money to take the property tax away from – what to say – ordinary people. I would like to see both business leaders, trade unions, the Norwegian economy and Norwegian business leaders in my eyes and say that in Norway you have shown through the results that it is good to do business in Norway – also with taxes on wealth. So to this discussion about dynamic effects, as we call it – it's politicians' language. What it's about is, when you spend one penny, either on the government budget of a public expense or a tax relief, how much money can you imagine that you're getting back? That's really what it boils down to. I'd like to have a new discussion about this, but what was completely new last fall was not if there were that kind of effects – of course it does – but it was that the Progress Party, based on a single article from some researchers in the SSB, even defined what they could expect to get back when you spent one penny in tax dollars. It was something completely new. I even wrote a letter to these researchers asking, is it the case that the country's largest opposition party can use these numbers the way they do? They replied, of course, that they can't – you don't have a cover for that. Jan Tore Sanner and Right have been patents on this issue in the past, and are usually very happy to be conservative and proper with numbers. I challenge him again to confirm that it is my impression and not Christian Tybring-Gjedde's impression that is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2088	The representative Gunnar Gundersen presented the main point of view of the Right in terms of the importance of a tax system that stimulates saving, work and investment, and the importance of the tax system ensuring income for the community. I want to take two concepts, which I also believe are important in fiscal policy, one is redistribution and the other is justice. Firstly, I think it is important that the tax system should ensure a fair redistribution. That's why the Right to Flat Tax, and we think it's right that we who earn the most, also have to pay the most in tax. What I want, on the other hand, to take a more thorough look at is the discussion of wealth taxes and justice. When we implemented the tax reform, we introduced dividend taxes. Dividends tax is a fair tax. It is fair and fair that money taken out of a company for private consumption is taxed in the same way as labour income. It's fair that those who charge large dividends also pay dividends. What is unfair and grossly unfair is that the persons who leave the money standing in value-creating work, in the company, in the farm, in the industry – must pay taxes on wealth on the capital that stands and works and that creates values for the community! So the question is, how can you remove the property tax without introducing a new tax? The truth is that we introduced a new tax – we introduced the dividend tax. Dividends tax is currently in the range of 6 billion. kr and 7 brd. kr to the community. That's the same thing as the tax on working capital. So a tapering down of wealth taxes is far on the way financed by the introduction of dividend taxes. That was the whole point of that grip in the tax reform that we presented. I have to do one more thing about the property tax, because it is sometimes said that there is no news in the Storting, but the Minister of Finance has actually done so today. He confirms that the government will continue along the same track as you have done so far. It means increasing the tax on wealth for most people. That's good. But it is very worrying if the Minister of Finance has now signaled that it will further increase the tax on the capital that stands in the companies and works and create values and jobs. So the income tax. The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen continued to repeat after my reply that SV is against tax laws to the richest and for tax reliefs to those who earn the least. The truth is that SV in government – and that was actually the first Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen – increased the tax on the low and usual wage incomes compared to the Bondevik II government proposal by lowering the minimum deduction. At the same time, SV maintained the large tax relief on the very highest wage income. So the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen continued to say that the government had increased the minimum deductions and the bottom deductions. Well, it's true that you've increased the net income tax base, but the real change in the minimum deductions for people with employee income has been equal to plus-minus 0. I've gone into and looked at what's been the actual development, and the truth is that it's been from minus 0.08 pst., which involves a tax tightening of $20, to an increase in the minimum deduction of 0.02 pst. So if there's SV knocking on the chest of, that one year in six years you've increased the minimum deduction so that it actually involves tax credits of $4 in a year, it's not much to boast of. To sum up, it is important to maintain a redistribution of the tax system through the taxation of income by paying the most, as well. It is important to increase the minimum deductions, so that it becomes more profitable to work for them with the low and normal employee income. It is fair to have a dividend tax, but it is unfair and unfair for money in the company to be subject to a property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2107	The evaluation of tax reform shows good results. The introduction of dividend taxes and improvements in wealth taxes has given a more demanding and fairer tax system. At the same time, the tax is less dependent on whether one is added or operates and on how the business is organised. Lower taxes on labour have strengthened labour supply, and dividends tax does not appear to have an impact on the financing of companies. Administrative costs are moderate. While listening to the Storting, there was also a big deal about most of the reform. The shipping association writes in its hearing note: ‘The Swedish Shipowners’ Association considers that the 2006 tax reform has contributed to the increased security of the tax system for value creation, efficient resource use and economic growth.’ This is a good certificate. Another hearing authority summarized the articles in a different way: if the property tax is the only people here have anything to put off, then the tax system must be reasonable. So I want to say a few words about the wealth tax, me too. He gives good distributive effects, and he contributes to a progressive tax system. For us in the Workers' Party, fair distribution is a goal in itself. Nevertheless, I see that for some small and medium-sized enterprises, wealth taxes can be a challenge, and especially this year with deficits. Therefore, it is very important for me to point out what the message says, that the government should work for changes that contribute to more equitable distribution and better framework conditions for business. The government shall return to it in its annual budgets. There has been a lot of talk about taxes on working capital. To this it is to say that it is difficult to define and define working capital. A bank deposit, for example, is working capital all the time the bank lends the money to value production in companies. Such a proposal will reverse the good distribution effects of 2005, it will present major administrative challenges, and it will open up for tax adjustment. In the long term, it can actually undermine the entire wealth tax, a tax that today gives us more than 14 billion. kr, the money we spend for school, health and the elderly. In the Labour Party, we are busy with small and medium-sized enterprises, and not least women entrepreneurs. It is important to encourage people to start up and run business here in Norway. Many, especially women, like to start individuals. Therefore, it is important that different types of companies should be treated equally. Since I joined the Finance Committee, I have often heard in the storeroom that one – especially the Left – is talking about how bad it is for individuals with regard to the company of shares. We have now received evidence that the reform has provided a much greater level of equal treatment for individuals and companies with limited liability. Then there have been discussions about provisioning funds for individuals, so that companies can benefit from deferred tax as the capital base of the enterprise. For several reasons, we have chosen not to go into this, including: it complicates the tax system and creates a need for increased control and follow-up through accounting and auditing. And then: when we e.g. Talking about – as I talk a lot about – women entrepreneurs and start-ups of businesses, there may be elements other than taxes and funds that are the problem and the challenges they face. However, it is important that we simplify the system and that we constantly have small and medium-sized enterprises in the back of our minds when we make new rules, when we look at the tax system. For example, Difor has me. This year – not so long ago – the audit obligation for small limited liability companies is being removed, and we will be returning to several measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2131	The President makes it clear that we are about to reach the regulatory time of the morning meeting. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2136	It was the representative of Torgeir Mikalsen who made me take the floor. It was a violent boast he brought by the government. It's to the extent of his job, but it's actually important that you don't look completely blind to how great you think this country is going. So if you take some macro numbers, it's one million people working in the public sector. There are 700,000 people who have social security as their main income. There are 1.1 million pensioners and there are 1.2 million children and young people. That's four million people. We are five million people in this country. There are one million people working in the private sector who will create all the values – in addition to the Pension Fund and the State Council’s code of action – that will ensure all our well-being. Then it's our job to create the very best foundation so that this well-being and this growth can increase. Then it is unwise to have a property tax that hunts even more private businesses out of the country and places jobs elsewhere. We have to do everything we can to create good entrepreneurs, to get people with high education and to get private business to be in Norway. It must be our job, and one million people in the private sector against five million people are too bad. It should be far, far higher numbers than that. And not enough about it: it's all the boasts of the representative Micaelsen that make us spend so much money on the consumption side of the state budget that we can't invest what's necessary to create growth in infrastructure, roads and everything we have to do to get the necessary growth that these one million people are forced to create. Now I'm not saying that those who work in the public sector, don't produce, don't work well, don't work hard and don't have good pay – it has nothing to do with it – but the point is that if all public sector jobs, there's no money to distribute on welfare tasks. We must be aware of the private sector, and then we must also facilitate that entrepreneurs and others are not taxed because they are said to be so rich that we others become so envious that we cannot even walk around and look at it. We have to stick to that for good. It is our goal to create sustainable development in this country. In the case of dynamic effects: the propulsion party has talked about dynamic effects from day one. From day one, from the moment we were established, we've been talking about dynamic effects, and we've been constantly asking different governments to figure out numbers that can document how high dynamic effects are on different types of tax reliefs. It's been our purpose. And then when we ask the SSB, and get the numbers from the SSB, you have to doubt that the numbers are right. You call the SSB to confirm that it can't be like that. Why can't the Ministry of Finance – which fortunately the Council of State has told him to – sit down to calculate these different dynamic effects, and then we can relate to those figures. The Progress Party shall then also relate to the figures produced — as long as they have been produced on a documented basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2149	The next – and last – speakers are Per Olaf Lundtigen. If there are no more subscribers to case No. 10, we'll be able to go to voting at this morning's meeting. Lundtigen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2154	When I asked for the word, it was just for a brief comment on the term «justice». I'm not going to go up any new discussion, President. I am pleased that the representative, Mr Sanner, on behalf of the Right, says that the tax on dividends is a fair tax, we fully agree with that. It also has the effect that keeping the profits of the company will pay off to the owner. However, the fairness of the relationship between taxes on wealth and property taxes is much more difficult because property taxes are also imposed on the part of the business that has tax assets that fall under it. The large difference in the level of equity between taxes on wealth and property taxes is the degree to which financial assets are taxed. That's where the question is, and I expect that we can get a rich chance to recapture later. This is a very central question in Norwegian tax history and is also going to be so in the future. I have no faith that there will be any other discussion here in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4350]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2182	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2190	Then we should be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2209	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2217	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop a clearer feedback concept to the school manager in relation to findings and observations revealed after supervision by the supervisory authority.’;» This proposal, in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, will be presented as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, the third paragraph of Section 10-9 shall be replaced by the following: Persons convicted of sexual assault against minors may not attend primary school, secondary school, music and cultural schools, school leisure arrangements, teaching aids or school-like activities as referred to in the first paragraph. In other cases, the consequences of comments on the police record have to be assessed in concrete terms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2458	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2468	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2478	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting a review of current legislation with a view to changing the obligation to pay subsidies to eligible children moving out of the home.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2521	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to develop different models for an independent fiscal council, based on experience from other countries and from Norway’s Bank Watch, in view of its establishment in 2012. In the submission, it is requested to discuss whether such a Council should be below the Ministry of Finance or the Grand Duchy, with a view to ensuring independence. Attention is also paid to the need to keep the costs of the Council moderate.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2548	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2558	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals to amend Section 28 of the Property Tax Act in order to enable municipalities to lay down general rules on depreciation or full exemption from property tax on grounds of special social considerations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2577	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Storting, the Government asks that the valuation of property be limited up to 30 p.m. of value in sales for the purposes of calculating the basis of property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2617	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Decision of the Law repealing Law No 6 June 1975 29 on taxes on property taxes payable to municipalities
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2688	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to promote a case where the impact of the property tax on the level of investment, the equity situation and access to capital is put at the centre of the focus. The relocation of capital from Norway and the loss of business environments as a result are of course part of such a review. The matter shall also present a strategy for strengthening Norwegian private ownership.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate dynamic effects in the short and long term from the best estimate in the context of revenue calculations for tax changes in the State budget. In doing so, the government should draw exchangers of experience from similar national and international calculations. Negative dynamic effects of increased taxes and duties shall also be recognised.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the repeal of the rules on correction income with effect for the 2011 Equation Year.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2731	There is a vote on proposals made by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 19 May 2011: «The government is asking the government to submit legislative proposals to the Stortinget for the transformation of the NUF into a limited liability company so that this becomes a simpler process than the government proposes through Prop. [[2010-2011]] 78 L
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-31.ana.ud1847e2754	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
